DAVIESS COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-12 Supplement, current through:
Ordinance 2024-1, passed 12-23-2024; and
State law current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2025 Acts, Pamphlet No.
1
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 2011-6
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR DAVIESS COUNTY, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF DAVIESS COUNTY DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of Davies County, Indiana
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the county and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and
authorize Daviess County to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of Daviess County of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of Daviess
County and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of Daviess County that this ordinance take effect at an
early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF DAVIESS COUNTY,
INDIANA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of Daviess County, Indiana, as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of Daviess County, Indiana.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
      TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
         10.   General Code Construction; General Penalty
      TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
         30.   General Provisions
         31.   County Employees
         32.   Policies and Procedures
         33.   Tax and Finance
         34.   Fee Collection
            Appendix A: Fee Schedule
         35.   County Organizations
         36.   Emergency Management
         37.   Specific Funds and Revenues
      TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
         50.   Solid Waste
         51.   Landfill Provisions
         52.   Private Sewage Disposal Systems
      TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
         70.   General Provisions
         71.   Horse-Drawn Vehicle/Buggy Regulations
         72.   Traffic Schedules
      TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
         90.   Parks and Recreation
         91.   Streets and Sidewalks
         92.   Public Nuisances
         93.   Fire Prevention and Protection
         94.   Fair Housing
      TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         110.   Nonpermanent Commercial Concerns
         111.   Sexually Oriented Businesses
         112.   Junkyard Control
         113.   Food Establishments/Bed and Breakfast Establishments
         114.   Installer Certification for On-Site Sewage Disposal Systems
         115.   Tattoo/Body-Piercing Businesses
      TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
         130.   Offenses Against Property
         131.   Offenses Against Persons and Morals
      TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
         150.   Subdivision Roadways
         151.   Address Numbering
         152.   Flood Hazard Areas
         153.   Plan Commission
      TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
         I.   Agreements and the Like
         II.   Streets, Sidewalks and Public Ways
         III.   Franchises
         PARALLEL REFERENCES
            References to Indiana Code
            References to Ordinances
         INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real estate or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the Clerk of the Daviess Circuit
Court is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary or
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of
the people of Daviess County, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County, Indiana, on
this 12th day of September, 2011.
                                       BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                                       Anthony D. Wichman /s/
                                       Anthony D. Wichman
                                       Michael Taylor /s/
                                       Michael Taylor
                                       Larry G. Wilson /s/
                                       Larry G. Wilson
ATTEST:
Gail Doades /s/
Gail Doades, Auditor
ORDINANCE NO. 2013-6
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
DAVIESS COUNTY, INDIANA
DAVIESS COUNTY, INDIANA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio (“American
Legal Publishing”), has completed the 2013 supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of Daviess County Indiana (“Code of Ordinances”), which supplement contains all
ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement
to the Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County
Indiana (“Board of Commissioners”) to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF DAVIESS COUNTY,
INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the 2013 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as submitted by
American Legal Publishing and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the clerk of Daviess
County, or its designee, is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk and Auditor.
 
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by Indiana law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County Indiana on
this 9th day of September, 2013.
                                       Anthony D. Wichman /s/
                                       Anthony D. Wichman
                                       Michael Taylor /s/
                                       Michael Taylor
                                       Larry G. Wilson /s/
                                       Larry G. Wilson
ATTEST:
Gail Doades /s/
Gail Doades, Auditor
ORDINANCE NO. 2014-5
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR DAVIESS COUNTY, INDIANA
   ORDINANCE NO. 2014-5
   DAVIESS COUNTY, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio
(“American Legal Publishing”), has completed the 2014 supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of Daviess County Indiana (“Code of Ordinances”), which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County
Indiana (“Board of Commissioners”) to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF DAVIESS
COUNTY, INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the 2014 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as submitted by
American Legal Publishing and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the clerk of Daviess
County, or its designee, is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk and Auditor.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by Indiana law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County Indiana on
this
         11th day of August, 2014.
                                       Anthony D. Wichman /s/
                                       Anthony D. Wichman
                                       C. Michael Taylor /s/
                                       Michael Taylor
                                       Larry Wilson /s/
                                       Larry Wilson
ATTEST:
Gail Doades /s/
Gail Doades, Auditor
ORDINANCE NO. 2015-5
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
DAVIESS COUNTY, INDIANA
DAVIESS COUNTY, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio
(“American Legal Publishing”), has completed the 2015 supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of Daviess County Indiana (“Code of Ordinances”), which supplement
contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County
Indiana (“Board of Commissioners”) to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF DAVIESS
COUNTY, INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the 2015 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as submitted by
American Legal Publishing and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the clerk of Daviess
County, or its designee, is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk and Auditor. And the Code of Ordinances shall be added to the
Daviess County website for electronic access by the public.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by Indiana law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County, Indiana on
this       27th day of July, 2015.
 
                                       Anthony D. Wichman /s/
                                       Anthony D. Wichman
                                       C. Michael Taylor /s/
                                       C. Michael Taylor
                                       Nathan Gabhart /s/
                                       Nathan Gabhart
ATTEST:
Patricia K. Ball /s/
Patricia K. Ball, Auditor
ORDINANCE NO. 2016-3
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
DAVIESS COUNTY, INDIANA
DAVIESS COUNTY, INDIANA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio ("American
Legal Publishing"), has completed the 2016 supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of Daviess County Indiana ("Code of Ordinances"), which supplement contains all
ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement
to the Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County
Indiana ("Board of Commissioners") to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF DAVIESS COUNTY,
INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the 2016 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as submitted by
American Legal Publishing and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the clerk of Daviess
County, or its designee, is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk and Auditor. And the Code of Ordinances shall be added to the
Daviess County website for electronic access by the public.
Section 3.   This ordinance is necessary for the immediate preservation of the
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the people of this municipality,
and shall take effect at the earliest date provided by Indiana law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County Indiana on
this 28th day of June, 2016.
                                          /s/ C. Michael Taylor
                                          C. Michael Taylor
                                          /s/ Nathan Gabhart
                                          Nathan Gabhart
                                                                       
                                          Daniel P. Jones
ATTEST:
/s/ Patty Ball
Patty Ball, Auditor
ORDINANCE NO. 2017-1
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
DAVIESS COUNTY, INDIANA
DAVIESS COUNTY, INDIANA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio ("American
Legal Publishing"), has completed the 2017 supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of Daviess County, Indiana ("Code of Ordinances"), which supplement contains
all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County,
Indiana ("Board of Commissioners") to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF DAVIESS COUNTY,
INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the 2017 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as submitted by
American Legal Publishing and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the clerk of Daviess
County, or its designee, is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk and Auditor. And the Code of Ordinances shall be added to the
Daviess County website for electronic access by the public.
Section 3.   This ordinance is necessary for the immediate preservation of the
peace, health, safety and general welfare of the people of this municipality,
and shall take effect at the earliest date provided by Indiana law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County, Indiana on
this 13th day of June, 2017.
                                          /s/ Nathan Gabhart
                                          Nathan Gabhart
                                          /s/ Tom McCracken
                                          Tom McCracken
                                          /s/ C. Michael Taylor
                                          C. Michael Taylor
ATTEST:
/s/ Patricia K. Ball
Patricia K. Ball, Daviess County Auditor
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-6
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio ("American
Legal Publishing"), has completed the 2019 supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of Daviess County, Indiana ("Code of Ordinances"), which supplement contains
all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County,
Indiana ("Board of Commissioners") to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF DAVIESS COUNTY,
INDIANA:
Section 1.   That the 2019 supplement to the Code of Ordinances as submitted by
American Legal Publishing and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the Clerk of Daviess
County, or its designee, is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk and Auditor. And the Code of Ordinances shall be added to the
Daviess County website for electronic access by the public.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by Indiana law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Commissioners of Daviess County, Indiana on
this 8th day of October, 2019.
                                          Absent
                                          Nathan Gabhart
                                          /s/ C. Michael Taylor
                                          C. Michael Taylor
                                          /s/ Tom McCracken
                                          Tom McCracken
ATTEST:
/s/ Patricia K. Ball
Patricia K. Ball, Auditor
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Daviess County
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Daviess County Board of Commissioners.
      COUNTY. Daviess County, Indiana.
      COUNTY COUNCIL. The Daviess County Council.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the county is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) of this section does not affect the
operation of division (B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   COUNTY EMPLOYEES
      
32.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
33.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
34.   FEE COLLECTION
      
35.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
36.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
37.   SPECIFIC FUNDS AND REVENUES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Charges for work-release inmates
   
30.02   Drug screening tests
   
30.03   County Commissioner and County Council districts
   
30.04   Charges for medical services to inmates
   
30.05   Disbursement of deferred prosecution fees
§ 30.01 CHARGES FOR WORK-RELEASE INMATES.
   (A)   Heretofore, the County Sheriff has established a work-release program
in the County Security Center pursuant to I.C. 11-12-5-3 and pursuant thereto,
the County Sheriff’s Department has charged each inmate participating in the
program the sum of $5 per day for each and every day, or part thereof, that the
inmate works and receives wages therefor.
   (B)   This section shall ratify the program heretofore established by the
County Sheriff authorizing the County Sheriff to collect the sums, keep an
accounting thereof and turning over to the County Auditor any and all sums
thereby collected on a periodical basis.
   (C)   The County Auditor shall also keep account of the sums of money and
place same in the County General Fund.
(Ord. 90-3, passed 10-11-1990)
§ 30.02 DRUG SCREENING TESTS.
   (A)   Heretofore, the County Commissioners approved a grant application for
the County Probation Department regarding drug screening program, which
application was granted by the federal government, the Department receiving the
sum of $2,500.
   (B)   As part and parcel of the federal grant awarded to the County
Probation Department, the county is required to raise a minimum sum of $833 to
assist in the drug test cost, the funds to be paid by the individuals being
tested by the Probation Department in accordance with the fee adjustment
guideline.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners of the county does hereby authorize the
County Probation Department or any authorized agent thereof to collect from
each individual being screened for drugs by use of a urine test and to
establish the fee as it shall determine to be necessary based upon the costs of
the tests and the necessity that the Department collect not less than $833 as
the county’s matching portion of the federal grant as hereinabove set forth.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners of the county do hereby further authorize
and direct that the funds thus collected by the County Probation Department
shall be turned over to the County Auditor and be placed in a separate account
with other funds represented by the federal grant from which the County
Probation Department may withdraw any necessary funds based upon claims to be
presented and approved by the County Board of Commissioners for any appropriate
expenditure as provided for and permitted in the federal grant, which by
reference is incorporated herein and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 2-11-1991)
§ 30.03 COUNTY COMMISSIONER AND COUNTY COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Daviess County is divided into three County Board of Commissioner
election districts, designated numerically as follows:
      (1)   District One. This district shall consist of the following
precincts: Washington 1, Washington 2, Washington 3, Washington 4, Washington
5, Washington 6, Washington 7, Washington 8, Washington 9, Washington 10,
Washington 11, Washington 12, Washington 13, Washington 14, Washington 15,
Veale 1 and Harrison 1;
      (2)   District Two. This district shall consist of the following
precincts: Barr 1, Barr 2, Reeve 1, and Van Buren 1; and
      (3)   District Three. This district shall consist of the following
precincts: Steele 1, Bogard 1, Madison 1, Madison 2, Madison 3, Elmore 1 and
Elmore 2.
   (B)   Daviess County is divided into four County Council election districts,
designated numerically as follows:
      (1)   District One. This district shall consist of the following
precincts: Bogard 1, Elmore 1, Elmore 2, Madison 1, Madison 2, Madison 3 and
Van Buren 1;
      (2)   District Two. This district shall consist of the following
precincts: Barr 1, Barr 2, Washington 1, Washington 5, and Washington 6;
      (3)   District Three. This district shall consist of the following
precincts: Harrison 1, Reeve 1, Washington 4, Washington 11, Washington 12,
Washington 13, Washington 14, and Washington 15; and
      (4)   District Four. This district shall consist of the following
precincts: Steele 1, Veale 1, Washington 2, Washington 3, Washington 7,
Washington 8, Washington 9, and Washington 10.
(Ord. 2001-6, passed 12-10-2001; Am. Ord. 2013-8, passed 11-15-2013; Am. Ord.
2021-11, passed 12-28-2021)
§ 30.04 CHARGES FOR MEDICAL SERVICES TO INMATES.
   (A)   Hereafter, upon passage of this section, the County Sheriff is hereby
authorized, ordered and directed to require any inmate who is situated and
otherwise confined in the County Security Center to make a co-payment in the
amount of $15 when the inmate is provided with the following services:
      (1)   Medical care;
      (2)   Dental care;
      (3)   Eye care; or
      (4)   Any other health care related service.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to or otherwise be enforced upon any
inmate who maintains a policy of insurance from a private company covering
medical care, dental care, eye care or other health care related services or to
an inmate who is willing to pay for his or her own medical care as above set
forth or any inmate who is committed to the Department of Corrections.
   (C)   A person confined to the County Security Center is not required to
make the above-stated medical co-payment if the following circumstances exist:
      (1)   The inmate does not have funds in his or her commissary account or
trust account at the time the service is provided and does not have any funds
in the commissary account or trust account within 60 days after the above-
referenced medical services provided to the inmate;
      (2)   The service provided is an emergency;
      (3)   The service provided is as a result of an injury received in the
County Security Center; and/or
      (4)   The service is provided at the request of the County Sheriff or his
or her authorized agent or representative.
   (D)   Any and all monies collected from the inmates pursuant to and in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall be deposited and receipted
by the Sheriff of the county into the Office of the County Auditor and the
funds shall be placed in the General Fund of the county, pursuant to I.C. 11-
12-5-5.
(Council Ord. 2002-4, passed 12-10-2002)
§ 30.05 DISBURSEMENT OF DEFERRED PROSECUTION FEES.
   Funds derived from a deferral program or pretrial conversion program may be
disbursed for all legal purposes including, but not limited to, one or more of
the following purposes.
   (A)   Personnel expenses related to the operation of the program.
   (B)   Special training for:
      (1)   A prosecuting attorney;
      (2)   A deputy prosecuting attorney;
      (3)   Support staff for a prosecuting attorney or deputy prosecuting
attorney; or
      (4)   A law enforcement officer.
   (C)   Employment of a deputy prosecutor or prosecutorial support staff.
   (D)   Victim assistance.
   (E)   Electronic legal research.
   (F)   Office equipment, including computers, computer software,
communication devices, office machinery, furnishings and office supplies.
   (G)   Expenses of a criminal investigation and prosecution.
   (H)   An activity or program operated by the prosecuting attorney that is
intended to reduce or prevent criminal activity, including:
      (1)   Substance abuse;
      (2)   Child abuse;
      (3)   Domestic violence;
      (4)   Operating while intoxicated; and
      (5)   Juvenile delinquency.
   (I)   Any other purpose that benefits the office of the prosecuting attorney
or law enforcement and that is agreed upon by the county fiscal body and the
prosecuting attorney.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-22-2011)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Sheriff authorized to utilize funds
   
31.02   Recorder to provide bulk form copies to a bulk form user
§ 31.01 SHERIFF AUTHORIZED TO UTILIZE FUNDS.
   It shall be lawful for the County Sheriff, or his or her designee, to
utilize funds to conduct illicit drug investigations to protect the well-being
and safety of the citizens of the county.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 31.02 RECORDER TO PROVIDE BULK FORM COPIES TO A BULK FORM USER.
   (A)   The Recorder shall watermark all bulk form copies with the following:
“This document is provided for the sole use of (insert bulk user name) and
except as provided for in I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(h), shall not be resold pursuant to
I.C. 36-2-7-10.1. Official copies may be obtained at the County Recorder's
Office.”
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply throughout this
section:
      BULK FORM COPY. An aggregation of:
         (a)   Copies of all recorded documents received by the County Recorder
for recording in a calendar day, week, month, or year;
         (b)   The indices for finding, retrieving, and viewing all recorded
documents received by the County Recorder for recording in a calendar day,
week, month, or year; or
         (c)   Both divisions (a) and (b).
      BULK USER. An individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, or unincorporated association that receives bulk form copies under a
contract with the County Recorder.
      COPY. A reproduction, including an image of a recorded document or
indices created by:
         (a)   Duplicating electronically stored data onto a disk, tape, drum,
or any other medium of electronic data storage; or
         (b)   Reproducing on microfilm.
      INDICES. All of the indexing information used by the County Recorder for
finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
      RECORDED DOCUMENT. A writing, paper, document, plat, map, survey, or
anything else received at any time for recording or filing in the public
records maintained by the County Recorder or the County Recorder's designee.
   (C)   Manner and form of production. It is hereby established that the
County Recorder shall provide bulk form copies to a bulk user only by
electronically transmitting the copies using an electronic transfer process.
   (D)   Procedure for requesting bulk form copies. A bulk user must submit a
written request to the County Recorder that identifies the requested bulk form
copies with reasonable particularity. Unless the request is refused under
division (G), upon receipt of a valid written request the County Recorder or
the County Recorder's designee shall provide the bulk form copies to the bulk
user by the method or methods established by ordinance. The bulk form copies
shall be provided within a reasonable time after the later of the following
events:
      (1)   The Recorder's archival process is completed and bulk form copies
become available in the County Recorder's Office.
      (2)   The bulk form user executes a contract that meets the requirements
of division (F) with:
         (a)   The County Recorder; and
         (b)   If the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder's designee.
         (c)   The County Recorder or the County Recorder's designee shall work
with reasonable diligence to ensure that bulk form copies are timely produced
to the bulk user.
   (E)   Fees charged for bulk form copies.
      (1)   Based on a cost study dated 2018 through 2022 and performed by the
Daviess County Recorder (which is incorporated herein by reference), this Board
finds and determines that the costs incurred by the Daviess County Recorder of
producing bulk form copies (including applying a watermark or other protective
feature) substantially exceed both the standard fee of $0.10 per page or per
recorded document fixed by I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(d), and the fee hereafter fixed.
Accordingly, the following fee schedule is hereby adopted:
         (a)   Twenty cents per page for a copy of a recorded document
including the instrument's book and page, if applicable.
         (b)   Twenty cents per recorded document for a copy of the indices
used by the County Recorder for finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded
document.
      (2)   The fees charged by the County Recorder are subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   The County Recorder shall pay the fees into the County Treasury
at the end of each calendar month.
         (b)   The fees prescribed and collected under this section supersede
all other fees for bulk form copies required by law to be charged for services
rendered by the County Recorder to bulk users.
         (c)   All revenue generated by the County Recorder under this section
shall be deposited in the County Recorder's records perpetuation fund and used
by the Recorder in accordance with I.C. 36-2-7-10(f).
         (d)   The Recorder shall periodically update and verify the cost study
referred to in division (E)(1) immediately above.
   (F)   Bulk user contract-termination.
      (1)   (a)   A bulk user must enter into a contract with the County
Recorder and if the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder's designee, in order to receive bulk form copies.
The contract must be in writing and must require that the bulk user agree not
to do any of the following:
            1.   Except as provided in division (G), provide, transfer, or
allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded document obtained by the bulk user
under this section to a third party.
            2.   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents.
            3.   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents.
         (b)   A contract required under this section may not include any
restrictions on a bulk form user's use of the bulk form copies other than those
contained in this section.
      (2)   If a bulk user does not comply with a contract, the County Recorder
may terminate the contract, immediately stop providing bulk form copies to the
bulk user, and refuse to provide the bulk form copies required by the bulk user
if all termination provisions and procedures in the contract have been met by
the County Recorder. The County Recorder may refuse subsequent requests from a
bulk user for bulk form copies in the following circumstances:
         (a)   The bulk user is a person that has had a previous bulk form copy
contract terminated by the County Recorder because the Recorder determined that
the bulk user failed to comply with the contract;
         (b)   The bulk user is a corporation or limited liability company in
which a person has a majority or controlling interest; and
            1.   The person requested bulk form copies under a previous
contract with the County Recorder; and
            2.   The contract was terminated by the County Recorder because the
County Recorder determined that the person failed to comply with the contract.
   (G)   Resale of bulk form copies by bulk user.
      (1)   (a)   A bulk user that is licensed under I.C. 27-1-15.6-6(d) or
holds a certificate of authority under I.C. 27-7-3-6 may provide bulk form
copies related to the specific order for a title search (as defined in I.C. 27-
7-3-2) when operating as:
            1.   A title plant for the issuance of title insurance (as defined
in I.C. 27-7-3-2); or
            2.   Title company (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2).
         (b)   A bulk user that meets the requirements of this section may
charge its customers a fee for using the bulk form copies obtained by the bulk
user that may not exceed the costs incurred by the bulk user for obtaining the
bulk form copies. A bulk user that meets the requirements of this section may
not resell, provide, transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded
document, whether in bulk form or as individual copies or images, to any other
bulk user or title plant.
      (2)   A bulk user that does not meet the requirements of division (G)(1)
immediately above is prohibited from selling, offering for sale, advertising
for sale, soliciting a purchase of, loaning, giving away, allowing subscription
service to, or otherwise transferring, providing, or allowing the transfer of
bulk form copies for commercial purposes to a third party, whether the copies
are in bulk form or individual copies or images.
   (H)   Enhanced access not affected. This section does not apply to enhanced
access authorized under I.C. 5-14-3-3 and any ordinances promulgated
thereunder.
(Ord. 2023-2, passed 5-23-2023; Ord. 2023-4, passed 9-12-2023)
CHAPTER 32: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Purchasing agency
   
32.02   Procurement Policy
   
32.03   Travel policy
   
32.04   Disposal of property
   
32.05   Materiality policy
   
32.06   Internal control standards
   
32.07   Conflict of interest policy
Fixed Asset Capitalization Policy
   
32.15   Purpose
   
32.16   Definition of capital assets
   
32.17   Capitalization threshold
   
32.18   Capital assets valuation
   
32.19   Responsibilities of county departments
   
32.20   Responsibilities of the County Auditor's office
   
32.21   Depreciation methods
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby determines that it is the purchasing
agency for the county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby designates the following persons to
serve as purchasing agents for the county:
      (1)   Each elected county official;
      (2)   The Circuit and Superior Court Judges; and
      (3)   The county employees as are designated from time to time in
writing.
(Ord. 98-4, passed 6-22-1998)
§ 32.02 PROCUREMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions and authorizations.
      (1)   Terms here shall have the meaning ascribed to them in I.C. 5-22 et
seq. ("the Act").
      (2)   The Board hereby affirms that it is the designated purchasing
agency for the county.
      (3)   The Board hereby authorizes the persons in the following positions
or offices to act as purchasing agents on behalf of the Board, as purchasing
agency:
         (a)   All officials elected to a county office;
         (b)   The County Highway Department Superintendent; and
         (c)   Any other persons as may be designated, in writing, by the
Board.
   (B)   Purchasing procedures.
      (1)   Available appropriation. All purchases must be supported by an
available and unencumbered appropriation when legally obligating the county to
the purchase. If the purchasing agent is uncertain as to the availability of an
existing appropriation, the agent should consult with the Board before
initiating the bid/quote solicitation process. If no available appropriation
exists, then, as to county department heads, the proposed purchase should first
be submitted to the Board for its approval before submitting the proposed
purchase for appropriation approval to the Daviess County Council ("Council").
Elected officials may proceed directly to contact the Council for approval of a
necessary appropriation.
      (2)   Purchase of services. Services may be purchased by any means
approved by the Board. Only the Board may approve a contract for the purchase
of services.
      (3)   Small purchases. Small purchases are those that are reasonably
expected by the purchasing agent to be less than $150,000. Purchasing
requirements may not be artificially divided so as to bring each of a series of
individual purchases under the above limitation.
         (a)   Purchases of less than $50,000. A purchasing agent may purchase
non-capital supplies having a reasonably expected cost of less than $50,000
without the prior approval of the Board if such purchase is included within the
purchasing agent's approved county budget and by obtaining quotes, if
practical, from at least two vendors known to deal in the lines or class of
supplies to be purchased. The purchasing agent may accept the lowest quote from
a responsive and responsible quoting vendor that best serves the needs of the
county.
         (b)   Purchases more than $50,000. A purchasing agent shall use the
procedures set forth in I.C. 5-22-8-3, as from time to time amended, for the
purchase of supplies reasonably expected to cost at least $50,000 but not more
than $150,000. The Board must accept the lowest responsive quote that comes
from a responsible quoting vendor. The Board may reject any or all quotes for
reason(s) that are stated in the minutes of its meeting where the quotes were
considered.
      (4)   Competitive bidding of purchases. Purchases reasonably expected by
the purchasing agent to be $150,000 or more shall comply with the procedures
for competitive bidding set forth in I.C. 5-22-7, as from time to time amended,
unless the purchases qualify for treatment under another section of the Act.
      (5)   Special purchases. The Act authorizes certain types of purchases to
be made without following any of the previously described bid or quote
solicitation procedures. Such special purchases may include, but are not
necessarily limited to, purchases that exist due to a unique opportunity for
savings; purchases made at an auction; purchases of data software programs,
license agreements or other such proprietary or copyrighted property; purchases
from a single source of supply; and other purchases described in I.C. 5-22-10,
as from time to time amended. Before proceeding under the special purchase
provisions of the Act, the purchasing agent shall first consult with the Board
and its counsel to:
         (a)   Determine that the particular purchase is properly within the
scope of the special purchases section of the Act;
         (b)   Consider what procedures might be implemented that would better
assure the maximum degree of competition as is practicable under the
circumstances; and
         (c)   Assure that the necessary contract records and documents that
are required by the Act are properly created and maintained by the county.
      (6)   Buy local preferences. The Board hereby declares its intent that
those small non-capital purchases that may be directly made by a purchasing
agent hereunder be procured, if possible, from a vendor locally based within
Daviess County, Indiana, provided the price differential between a local vendor
and a non-local vendor is nonmaterial.
(Ord. 98-5, passed - -; Ord. 2018-4, passed 3-13-2018; Ord. 2018-6, passed 4-
24-2018)
§ 32.03 TRAVEL POLICY.
   The reimbursement for travel and expense be paid to officials and employees
as follows:
   (A)   Actual cost of lodging including taxes, except that the cost does not
include the cost, if any, for occupation of the facility by a spouse. In the
case of a one-day session, a lodging allowance may be paid only to persons who
reside more than 50 miles from the session location. A lodging allowance may be
paid to a person who resides within 50 miles if the session is longer than one
day.
   (B)   Mileage shall be reimbursed at the annual rate as set by the Daviess
County Council each year. Actual parking, toll fees and taxicab fees are
allowed in addition to mileage, for business purposes only.
   (C)   Actual food expenditure shall be allowed up the $65 dollars per day.
Tips to be reimbursed for 18% of the total bill.
   (D)   Those officials and employees attending a State Board of Accounts
State Called Conference shall be reimbursed in the amount provided in I.C. 5-
11-14-1.
   (E)   Officials and employees attending State Board of Tax Commissioners
Conferences shall be reimbursed in accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-35-3 with the
subsistence allowance to be not less than the subsistence allowance paid to
state employees in travel status.
   (F)   Officials attending meetings called by the Indiana Election Commission
shall be reimbursed in accordance with I.C. 3-6-4.2-14.
   (G)   Long distance phone calls (including cell phone calls) or faxes for
business purposes only shall be reimbursed for actual cost incurred.
   (H)   Items not paid by the county are:
      (1)   In room dry bars and in room movies.
      (2)   Room service.
      (3)   Alcoholic beverages.
      (4)   Lodging for spouse or other family members.
(Ord. 1999-4, passed 12-13-1999; Ord. 2011-2, passed 3-14-2011; Ord. 2021-6,
passed 8-11-2021)
§ 32.04 DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   If there is county property in which there is one item with an
estimated value of less than $1,000, or more than one item with an estimated
total value of less than $5,000, then the following procedure may be used for
disposing of outdated, obsolete or no longer needed county property.
   (B)   As the need arises, the County Auditor may sell the surplus, obsolete
items to any interested parties in the following manner.
      (1)   The surplus or obsolete items will be numbered and placed in the
bottom floor lobby of the county courthouse for a reasonable length of time.
      (2)   A notice will be posted on the bulletin board on the main floor of
the courthouse which sets forth each of the numbered items to be disposed of
and a specific date and time when bids will be opened for each item.
      (3)   The Auditor will provide any interested individuals with forms
which they may fill out to bid on any of the items listed.
      (4)   Anyone interested in placing a bid on a surplus item must fill out
the form provided by the Auditor’s Office and submit it to the Auditor prior to
the date and time set forth in the notice.
      (5)   The person with the highest bid will be notified by the Auditor’s
office and will have five days to pay for the item in the Auditor’s office and
remove from the courthouse. Checks should be made payable to the County
Treasurer.
      (6)   Any property deemed by the Auditor to be worthless may be junked or
given away to a not-for-profit organization or any other interested parties.
(Ord. passed 4-22-2002)
§ 32.05 MATERIALITY POLICY.
   (A)   Any public official, department head or employee with actual knowledge
or reasonable cause to believe that there has been a misappropriation of public
funds is to immediately send written notice of the misappropriation to the
State Board of Accounts and the Prosecuting Attorney, regardless of the amount.
   (B)   The materiality threshold at which point the county shall report
incidents of material variances, losses, or shortages, to the State Board of
Accounts is:
      (1)   A one-time cash loss of at least $1,000;
      (2)   A one-time noncash loss of at least $4,000; or
      (3)   A recurring cash loss of at least $100 average per month.
   (C)   All items not reported to the State Board of Accounts shall be
resolved at the Board of Commissioners level according to the current county
personnel policy with appropriate documentation retained by the County Auditor.
   (D)   When an irregular variance, loss, shortage or theft is determined
material pursuant to county policy on materiality, the Auditor and/or the
Treasurer shall report the incident to the State Board of Accounts. On the
State Board of Account’s website there is a notification link, which allows
public officials to report via email material irregular variances, losses,
shortages or thefts. Telephone and in-person reporting is also acceptable.
Reports will be followed up with a return email or call to gather additional
information as necessary. All reports of irregular variances, losses,
shortages, or thefts are maintained by the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 7-12-2016)
§ 32.06 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The acceptable minimum level of internal control standards and procedures
developed under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) by the SBOA contained in the “Uniform
Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions” manual are
hereby adopted by Daviess County, Indiana and that county personnel receive
training concerning the internal control standards and procedures hereby
adopted.
(Ord. 2016-9, passed 11-22-2016)
§ 32.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   (A)   No officers or employees of the county shall either solicit or accept
gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from consultants, potential
consultants, or parties to subagreements, unless in accordance with this
section.
      (1)   The aforementioned prohibition does not include gratuities, favors,
or anything of monetary value under $200.
      (2)   Any financial interest under $200 shall be considered not
substantial in accordance with the Code of Federal Regulations.
   (B)   This policy conforms to the standards set forth in the Code of Federal
Regulations and by the Indiana Department of Transportation.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, a CONSULTANT is defined as an
individual or firm providing engineering and design related services as a party
to a contract with a recipient or subrecipient of federal assistance.
   (D)   This section applies to all public officials and employees of Daviess
County, Indiana.
(Ord. 2017-1.2, passed 12-17-2019)
FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 32.15   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of establishing a capital asset policy is:
   (A)   To safeguard the public investments made by the taxpayers in Daviess
County;
   (B)   To comply with the standards of the Government Accounting Standards
Board;
   (C)   To clarify responsibility for the custody of the assets;
   (D)   To maintain accurate records of all fixed assets that are capitalized,
including infrastructure;
   (E)   To provide data for financial reporting for increased accuracy and
clarity; and
   (F)   To show stewardship and responsibility for public assets.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 4-26-2022)
§ 32.16 DEFINITION OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   “Capital assets” are defined as assets having a useful life of more
than one year and an acquisition cost of $4,000 or more. Capital assets include
land, land improvements, buildings, building improvements, machinery and
equipment, vehicles, construction work in progress, works of art, historical
treasures, and infrastructure, the latter of which are long-lived capital
assets that normally are stationary in nature and normally can be preserved for
a significantly great number of years than most capital assets.
   (B)   All items with a useful life of more than one year and a cost of
$4,000 or more shall be capitalized, including acquisitions by lease-purchase
agreements and donated items. All land will be capitalized but not depreciated.
Construction work in progress will be included in the capital asset inventory
and will be depreciated once the project is complete and transferred to the
appropriate county department. Items costing less than $4,000 that are
permanently installed as a part of the cost of the original construction or
installation of a larger building or equipment unit, or that prolong a fixed
asset’s economic life or expand its usefulness, will be in included in the cost
of the larger unit.
   (C)   All capital assets meeting the criteria will be included in the
county’s fixed asset inventory and reported in the county’s financial
statements. Assets that are not capitalized are expensed in the year of
acquisition. Departments must maintain an inventory of capital assets under
their supervision.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 4-26-2022)
§ 32.17 CAPITALIZATION THRESHOLD.
   (A)   To be considered a “fixed asset” for financial reporting purposes, an
item must be at or above the capitalization threshold and have a cost greater
than $4,000. The cost of the asset will include all expenses necessary to make
the asset fully operational. Assets acquired through lease purchase agreements
that meet these specifications are to be capitalized. This cost will be
determined as the present value or discounted value of the future stream of
lease payments, and not the total lease.
   (B)   Capital assets are recorded at actual cost. Normally the cost recorded
is the purchase price or construction cost of the asset but may also include
any other reasonable and necessary costs incurred to place the asset in its
intended location and intended use, including:
      (1)   Legal and title fees and closing costs;
      (2)   Appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying costs;
      (3)   Land preparation costs, demolition costs;
      (4)   Architect, engineering and accounting fees; and
      (5)   Transportation charges.
   (C)   Donated or contributed assets should be recorded at the fair market
value on the date donated. If no cost is available for a fixed asset, a
replacement cost or a historic cost index may be used. Items that do not meet
the definition of capital assets are to be expensed in the year the asset is
acquired.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 4-26-2022)
§ 32.18 CAPITAL ASSETS VALUATION.
   Capital assets are defined by the following categories:
   (A)   Land. Land is defined as specified land, lots, parcels, or acreage
including rights-of-way owned by Daviess County.
   (B)   Buildings and improvements. All structures designed and erected to
house equipment, services, or functions are included. This includes systems and
fixtures within the buildings and attachments such as stairs, fire escapes,
canopies, lighting fixtures, flagpoles, and other items that serve the
building. Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling, ventilating and
air handling systems, sound systems, surveillance systems, elevators, built-in
casework, walk-in coolers and freezers, fixed shelving, and other fixed
equipment are included as building components.
   (C)   Equipment. Equipment includes all other types of physical property,
such as mechanical equipment, heavy equipment, office furniture, appliances,
furnishings, machinery items, maintenance equipment, communication equipment,
laboratory equipment, and data processing equipment. Supplies that typically
get used within one year are not included.
   (D)   Vehicles. Motor vehicles include all vehicles for which title and
license must be obtained including cars, trucks, buses, road-going trailers,
dump trucks, and highway trucks. Vehicle accessories will be identified as a
component asset of the vehicle to which they are attached.
   (E)   Infrastructure. Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets
that normally can be preserved for a significantly greater number of years than
most capital and that are normally stationary in nature. Examples include new
roads, bridges, storm water and drainage systems.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 4-26-2022)
§ 32.19 RESPONSIBILITIES OF COUNTY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   Department heads are the stewards for each piece of property utilized
by their department. The steward will be the focal point for questions for
availability, condition, and usage of the asset.
   (B)   The steward shall be designated as the person to record the receipt of
the asset, to examine the asset to make sure no damage was incurred during
shipment, and to make sure the asset was received in working order. The steward
is also responsible for arranging the necessary preventative maintenance and
any needed repairs to keep the asset in working condition. The steward also
ensures that the asset is used for the purpose for which it was acquired and
that there is no personal or unauthorized use. The steward is responsible for
reporting any loss, theft, or damage to the assets.
   (C)   Departments are to maintain inventories of all capital assets,
including a) those that are capitalized and reported on the county’s capital
asset inventory; and b) controllable assets with an acquisition cost of $3,999
or less and $500 or more, which are tracked and inventoried.
   (D)   Department heads are to report newly acquired assets, retired assets,
transferred assets, and assets in use that previously were not included in the
county’s asset inventory to the Daviess County Auditor’s Office. Department
heads will receive instruction and are required to use the prescribed method
provided.
   (E)   Department heads must abide by all Auditor Office deadlines for the
reporting. Typically, asset reporting is to be completed by the first Friday of
the first full week in January each year.
   (F)   Assets below the capitalization and inventory threshold but considered
sensitive may include, but are not limited to, weapons, radios, computers,
laptops, tablets, chainsaws, small motor equipment and power tools. These minor
but sensitive items shall be inventoried, reported and controlled at the
department level by the head of the operating department. Stated inventory
shall be conducted annually. The County Auditor’s office is to receive a copy
of the inventory and/or updated inventories for minor but sensitive items.
   (G)   Department heads are responsible for ensuring that acquisitions of
capital assets follow all policies, statutes, and regulations, including proper
advertising, use of proper budgetary codes and accounting forms, and all
required appropriation approvals.
   (H)   The Daviess County Commissioners and the Auditor’s Office may conduct
spot checks of the asset inventory and condition on a random, unannounced
basis.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 4-26-2022)
§ 32.20 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COUNTY AUDITOR’S OFFICE.
   The Daviess County Auditor’s office is responsible for ensuring that
accounting for capital assets is being exercised by establishing a capital
asset inventory that is updated annually for additions, retirements, transfers,
and items retroactively added. The Auditor’s Office is responsible for securing
a fixed asset advisor for the county, if deemed necessary, and for the
financial reporting of the capital assets, including depreciation expense and
assets included in the inventory but not depreciated.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 4-26-2022)
§ 32.21 DEPRECIATION METHODS.
   Daviess County will depreciate capital assets by using the straight-line
method. Assets will be depreciated based on the estimated useful life of each
asset. The following are the estimated useful lives for each asset class:
   (A)   Buildings: 50 years.
   (B)   Infrastructure being depreciated: 50 years.
   (C)   Building components and improvements: 20 years.
   (D)   Machinery and equipment: five to 15 years.
   (E)   Vehicles: five to 15 years.
      (1)   Car: five years.
      (2)   Sport utility vehicle (SUV): ten years.
      (3)   Large trucks: 15 years.
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 4-26-2022)
(Ord. 2022-1, passed 4-26-2022)CHAPTER 33: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
33.01   License excise surtax
   
33.02   Innkeeper’s tax
   
33.03   County income tax special account
   
33.04   Adjusted gross income tax
   
33.05   Capital Improvement Plan
   
33.06   Economic development income tax
   
33.07   Prepayment procedures; disbursement
   
33.08   Tax refunds applied to delinquent property taxes
§ 33.01 LICENSE EXCISE SURTAX.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed an annual license excise surtax pursuant to
I.C. 6-3.5-4-2 of 10%, imposed upon vehicles described in I.C. 6-3.5-4-2(b),
but in no event shall the net annual license excise surtax be less than $12.50
per vehicle, the tax being imposed and collected in lieu of a property tax, the
tax to be paid with the registration of the motor vehicles, and the tax being
specifically applicable to passenger vehicles, motorcycles and trucks with a
declared gross weight that does not exceed 11,000 pounds, as more particularly
set forth in the schedule, on file in the office of the County Clerk.
   (B)   The County Treasurer is hereby ordered and directed to create,
pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-4-13, a fund to be known as the “Daviess County Surtax
Fund”, to be distributed to local units of government pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-4-
13(c), and shall be allocated by the County Auditor to the county, cities and
towns in accordance with I.C. 8-14-2-4(c)(1) through 8-14-2-4(c)(3), and shall
be used exclusively to construct, reconstruct, repair or maintain roads and
streets under their jurisdiction.
   (C)   There is hereby imposed pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-5-2 an annual wheel tax
on classes of vehicles and at rates established in division (F) below;
provided, however, that pursuant to I.C. 6-3.4-5-4, there shall be no wheel tax
levied against vehicles owned by the state, any state agency, any political
subdivision; any church buses, any vehicle subject to the annual excise surtax,
and the tax to be paid with the registration of the motor vehicles.
   (D)   The County Treasurer is hereby ordered to create, pursuant to I.C. 6-
3.5-5-15, a fund to be known as the “Daviess County Wheel Tax Fund” to be
distributed to the local units of government pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-5-15(c),
and shall be allocated by the County Auditor to the county, cities and towns in
accordance with I.C. 8-14-2-4(c)(1) through I.C. 8-14-2-4(c)(3), and shall be
used exclusively to construct, reconstruct, repair or maintain roads and
streets under their jurisdiction.
   (E)   The above-referenced taxes shall be levied and this section shall be
effective starting January 1, 1990.
   (F)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-5-2(c) and I.C. 6-3.5-5-3, certain types and
classes of vehicles shall pay annual wheel taxes, a schedule of which is kept
on file in the office of the County Clerk.
   (G)   The County Auditor is hereby ordered and directed, pursuant to I.C. 6-
3.5-4-6 and I.C. 6-3.5-5-8, to send a copy of this section to the Commissioner
of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(Council Ord. 1-89, passed 6-27-1989; Council Ord. 2009-1, passed 6-10-2009)
§ 33.02 INNKEEPER’S TAX.
   (A)   The Daviess County Visitor's and Convention Commission (the
"Commission") shall be considered and shall operate as a county-government
department of the county.
   (B)   The Commission shall remain subject to I.C. 6-9-18 et seq., as
amended, (the "Uniform County Innkeeper's Tax") and Daviess County Code of
Ordinances. If the Indiana Code and local ordinances directly conflict, the
state code provisions shall be controlling.
   (C)   In accordance with I.C. 6-9-18-3, after June 30, 2021, the rate of 9%
innkeeper’s tax shall be levied in Daviess County, and the Council may initiate
a change to this rate. The tax does not apply to gross income received on a
transaction with a person renting a room or lodging for 30 days or more.
   (D)   Fund(s) handling. All funds related to the Commission shall be held in
Fund 1127 by the County Auditor.
      (1)   The Council may establish additional sub-funds, upon request of the
Auditor and the Commission. The Commission, or another party, may make a
written request for an appropriation of such funds.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 36-2-5-2(b) et seq., as amended, the
Commission shall not make an expenditure of any public funds without an
appropriation.
      (3)   All money coming into possession of the Commission shall be
deposited, held, secured, invested and paid in accordance with statutes
relating to the handling of public funds. The handling and expenditure of money
coming into possession of the Commission is subject to audit and supervision of
the State Board of Accounts and the state.
      (4)   The Commission shall not operate a bank account or foundation
separate from the county offices, obligations, and responsibilities, except
with the prior approval of the Commissioners and Council.
   (E)   Real property. Any purchases of real property shall be in accordance
with the applicable real estate acquisition statute (I.C. 36-1-10.5-5 et seq.)
and shall also require the prior approval of the Board of Commissioners and the
County Council.
   (F)   Membership. The Commission shall be made up of seven members,
appointed in accordance with I.C. 6-9-18-5 et seq. A member of the Commission
may be removed for cause by his or her appointing authority. Members of the
Commission may not receive a salary.
   (G)   Regular presentations. The Commission shall make regular presentations
to the public bodies. and no less than annually, regarding the Commission's
past activities and the use of all funds (appropriated or otherwise), and the
Commission shall also provide an annual report, not later than May 31 of each
year.
   (H)   Authority. The Commission shall report to the Board of Commissioners
in general, and to the County Council on fiscal matters.
(Council Ord. 2000-4, passed 12-12-2000; Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-23-2023)
§ 33.03 COUNTY INCOME TAX SPECIAL ACCOUNT.
   The County Council elects to reduce the required county income tax special
account balance from a six-month balance to a three-month balance within 90
days after the adoption of this section.
(Council Ord. 2001-3, passed 7-10-2001)
§ 33.04 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME TAX.
   (A)   The Council hereby finds that, pursuant to the Act, there is a need to
impose additional CAGIT on the adjusted gross income tax of county taxpayers at
the rate of 0.25% for the financing of the project and to pay debt service on
bonds issued or annual lease rentals due under a lease to be entered into for
the project.
   (B)   The County Council hereby increases the county adjusted gross income
tax rate imposed upon county taxpayers of the county from 1% to 1.25%. This tax
rate increase takes effect July 1, 2002.
   (C)   The County Auditor shall record all votes taken on this section and
immediately send a certified copy of the results by certified mail to the State
Department of Revenue.
(Council Ord. 2002-2, passed 3-29-2002)
§ 33.05 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Order 1-2004 of the Board of Commissioners is hereby approved,
ratified and confirmed.
   (B)   The Capital Improvement Plan of the county, as adopted by the Board of
Commissioners through the adoption of Order 1-2004, is hereby approved,
ratified and confirmed.
(Council Ord. 2004-5, passed 10-13-2004)
§ 33.06 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX.
   (A)   The county hereby imposes the Homestead Credit EDIT in accordance with
state law at a rate not to exceed 0.25% to provide for additional homestead
credits in the county to mitigate the effect of the county deduction and the
effect of the state deduction on homesteads.
   (B)   This section shall apply to assessment years 2005 and thereafter.
   (C)   (1)   The certified distribution received by the county as a result of
the Homestead Credit EDIT (“homestead credit certified distribution”) shall be
used after the 2004 assessment year and through the 2005 assessment year to
increase the percentage of the homestead credit allowed in the county under
I.C. 6-1.1 for a year to offset the effect on homesteads in the county
resulting from the county deduction.
      (2)   The homestead credit certified distribution received by the county
shall be used after the 2005 assessment year to increase the percentage of the
homestead credit allowed in the county under I.C. 6-1.1 for a year to offset
the effect on homesteads in the county resulting from the state deduction.
   (D)   The homestead credit certified distribution shall be retained by the
County Auditor and used to increase the percentage of the homestead credit
allowed in the county under I.C. 6-1.1 for a year to offset the effect on
homesteads in the county resulting from the county deduction through the 2005
assessment year and to offset the effect on homesteads in the county resulting
from the state deduction after the 2005 assessment year.
   (E)   The County Auditor shall, for each calendar year in which an increased
homestead credit percentage is authorized, determine:
      (1)   The amount of the homestead credit certified distribution that is
available to provide an increased homestead credit percentage for the year; and
      (2)   An increased percentage of homestead credit for each taxing
district in the county that allocates to the taxing district an amount of
increased homestead credits that bears the same proportion to the amount
determined under division (E)(1) above that the amount of the state deduction
in the taxing district for the immediately preceding year’s assessment date
bears to the total state deduction in the county for the immediately preceding
year’s assessment date.
   (F)   The County Auditor shall record all votes taken on this section and
shall, not more than ten days after the vote, send a certified copy of the
results to the commissioner of the Department of State Revenue by certified
mail.
(Council Ord. 2004-3, passed 1-12-2005)
§ 33.07 PREPAYMENT PROCEDURES; DISBURSEMENT.
   (A)   The following categories are designated for pre-approved or
prepayment:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the U.S. government,
its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is prohibited;
      (6)   Grants or state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Lease or rental payments;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State or federal taxes;
      (12)   Expenses paid for emergency services;
      (13)   Collect freight deliveries;
      (14)   Conference registrations approved by the Board of Commissioners;
      (15)   Reimbursement for conference expenses incurred while attending
approved conferences;
      (16)   Credit card or charge card expenses incurred by the county
government;
      (17)   Postage;
      (18)   Witness fees - lodging and travel expense; and
      (19)   Unemployment fees.
   (B)   Pursuant to Indiana Code, each payment must be fully itemized and each
invoice or bill certified by the County Auditor. The pre-approved or prepaid
claim must be advertised and approved at the next scheduled meeting of the
County Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2006-2B, passed 4-10-2006; Ord. 2020-7, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 33.08 TAX REFUNDS APPLIED TO DELINQUENT PROPERTY TAXES.
   The County Treasurer is hereby directed to apply any tax refunds to the
delinquent property taxes owed by the taxpayer before distribution of any
remaining funds to the taxpayer.
(Ord. 2007-2, passed 11-26-2007)
CHAPTER 34: FEE COLLECTION
Section
   
34.01   Checks returned to any office
   
34.02   Supplemental recording fee
   
34.03   Electronic map data
   
34.04   Copying, facsimiles and certifications
   
34.05   Health Department fee collection
   
34.06   Real property endorsement fee
 
   
34.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Fees Schedule
§ 34.01 CHECKS RETURNED TO ANY OFFICE.
   (A)   (1)   It has come to the attention of the Board of Commissioners that
certain offices within the county government have consistently received checks
from the public and citizenry which are returned as non-negotiable for various
and sundry reasons.
      (2)   As a result of the necessary process of notifying the issuer of the
checks, the county has incurred expenses, both in personnel time spent, postage
for certified mailings and loss of use of the money by the county for whichever
fund the check was intended.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners now establish by this section a $20 service
fee, which shall be charged to the individual(s) or entity or legally
responsible person who issues a check which is returned to any department or
office in the county, including, but not limited to, the office of the County
Treasurer, the Clerk of the County Circuit and Superior Courts, the County
Recorder’s Office, the Office of the County Prosecutor, the county airport, the
County Highway Department or the county landfill.
   (C)   Each department head, office holder or his or her designee or the
individual in charge of the office or department shall collect the late fee
from the issuer of the check which was returned and shall note the receipt of
the late payment by the appropriate receipt, placing those funds in the
appropriate account of that office or department.
   (D)   Any office or department who receives a check which is returned has
the authority to refuse any further checks from the person or entity who issues
a check which is returned as non-negotiable for whatever reason, the refusal to
be at the discretion of the officeholder, department head or individual in
charge of that office.
(Ord. 93-2, passed 2-22-1993)
§ 34.02 SUPPLEMENTAL RECORDING FEE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7-10, the County Recorder shall charge a
supplemental fee of $3 per document, which shall be paid at the time of
recording of the document.
   (B)   The supplemental recording fee of $3 is in addition to all other
recording fees required by law for services rendered by the County Recorder’s
office.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7-10, the supplemental recording fee shall be
placed in the Recorder’s Records Perpetuation Fund, along with the fees
collected per I.C. 36-2-7-10(c), to be used by the County Recorder without
appropriation, for the preservation of records and the improvement of record-
keeping systems and equipment.
(Ord. 95-3, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 34.03 ELECTRONIC MAP DATA.
   (A)   Title and definitions. This section, and any parts herein, shall be
known as the “Daviess County Electronic Map Ordinance”. In accordance with I.C.
5-14-3-2, PERSON, as used in this agreement, is defined as an individual, a
corporation, a limited liability company, a partnership, an unincorporated
association or a governmental entity, and ELECTRONIC MAP DATA as used in this
agreement is defined as copyrighted data created and provided by a public
agency from an electronic geographic information system.
   (B)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(j), the county may charge a fee, uniform
to all persons for providing electronic map data that is based upon a
reasonable percentage of the county’s direct cost of maintaining upgrading and
enhancing the electronic map and for the direct cost of supplying the
electronic map in the form requested by the person(s).
      (2)   In the case where disclosable and non-disclosable electronic map
data are combined, I.C. 5-14-3-6 provides that the county may charge a
reasonable fee for the county’s direct cost of computer programming to separate
disclosable from non-disclosable electronic map data.
      (3)   It is hereby established by the County Commissioners and County
Council that the initial fee schedule for the transmission of electronic map
data is as set forth in an attached fee schedule that is incorporated by
reference herein.
      (4)   If the county contracts with a third party contractor to handle the
transmission of county electronic map data, the third party contractor shall
receive two-thirds, and the county one-third of the fees charged the person for
electronic map data. This fee schedule shall be reviewed on an annual basis and
may be changed on an annual basis to reflect the change in the cost in
providing the electronic map data.
   (C)   Exceptions to fee schedule. Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8(k), the fee
charged by a county to cover the costs for maintaining, upgrading and enhancing
an electronic map may be waived by the Board of Commissioners, in whole or in
part at its discretion if the use of the electronic map data will be used for a
noncommercial purpose, including the following: public agency program support,
nonprofit activities, journalism and/or academic research.
   (D)   Third party contractor. In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-3.6, electronic
map information may be provided to person(s) through the county’s own computer
gateway, or by agreement through a computer gateway of a third party
contractor. I.C. 5-14-3-3.6(e) provides that a contract entered into under this
section may require the payment of a reasonable fee to either the third party
contractor, the county or both. In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-4, neither the
county nor the third party contractor shall disclose electronic map data that
is specifically excepted from disclosure requirements.
   (E)   Payment. Where the county is using its own computer gateway for the
provision to person(s) of electronic map data, payment shall be made by the
person(s) at the time of delivery. Where the county has entered into an
agreement with a third party contractor to provide electronic map data through
the third party contractor’s computer gateway, the third party contractor shall
handle the billing and invoicing of the fees charged and shall agree to send by
U.S. mail that portion of the fee due the county to the County’s Electronic Map
Generation Fund within ten business days of the receipt of payment of fees to
the third party contractor by the person(s) making the purchase.
   (F)   Compliance with state statutes. Nothing herein shall compel any
officer or his or her contracted third party contractor to charge a fee for
copies if the fee imposed by this section is contrary to state law. In the
event the fees in this section are contrary to any charges established by state
statute, the state statute shall apply.
   (G)   Use restrictions and notice.
      (1)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person, other
than those authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners, may use the
electronic map data provided by the county for commercial purposes, including
to sell, advertise or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods or services,
or sell, loan, give away or otherwise deliver the information obtained by
request to any other person for these purposes. This includes the repackaging
or assimilation of electronic map data for a commercial purpose in paper or
electronic media.
      (2)   A person who uses information in a manner contrary to this section
or a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3 may be prohibited by the
county from obtaining any electronic map data.
      (3)   The following notice regarding data ownership, restrictions and
qualifications shall be provided to every person that receives a copy of the
county’s electronic map data.
         “Daviess County electronic map data is the property of Daviess County,
Indiana. All electronic map data supplied by Daviess County has been derived
from public records that are constantly undergoing change and is not warranted
for content or accuracy. The County does not guarantee the positional or
thematic accuracy of the data. The cartographic digital file server is not a
legal representation of any of the features depicted, and the County disclaims
any assumption of the legal status they represent. Any implied warranties,
including warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose,
shall be and/or expressly excluded. The data represents an actual reproduction
of data contained in the county’s computer files. This data may be incomplete
or inaccurate, and is subject to modifications and changes. Therefore, the
county cannot be held liable for errors or omissions in the data. The
recipient’s uses and reliance upon such data is at the recipient’s risk. By
using this data, the recipient agrees to protect, hold harmless and indemnify
the county and its employees and officers. This indemnity covers reasonable
attorney’s fees and all court costs associated with the defense of the county
arising out of this disclaimer. The recipient may copy this data into computer
memory or onto computer storage devices and prepare derivative works from it
for the recipient’s own use.
         Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), no person, other than
those authorized in writing by the Board of Commissioners may use the
electronic map data provided by the county for commercial purposes, including
to sell, advertise or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods or services,
or sell, loan, give away or otherwise deliver the information obtained by
request to any other person for these purposes. A person who uses information
in a manner contrary to a rule or ordinance adopted under I.C. 5-14-3-3(e) may
be prohibited by the Board of Commissioners from obtaining any electronic map
data.”
      (4)   A copy of the language contained in this section shall be
conspicuously posted in all offices where electronic map data is sold in the
county, and shall be provided to any person(s) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2)
who desires to purchase electronic map data from the county.
   (H)   Electronic Map Generation Fund.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-14-3-8.5, the County Council hereby establishes
the County Electronic Map Generation Fund.
      (2)   The Electronic Map Generation Fund shall consist of fees charged
for providing electronic map data to person(s) in accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8
(j) and be subject to the appropriation by the County Council.
      (3)   In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8.5(b), all funds collected in the
Electronic Map Generation Fund shall be specifically dedicated to the following
purposes:
         (a)   The maintenance, upgrading and enhancement of the electronic
map; and
         (b)   The reimbursement of expenses incurred by a public agency in
supplying an electronic map in the form requested by the person(s).
   (I)   Dispute resolution. Any person who has a dispute, or seeks relief from
the terms of this section, may seek resolution of that dispute or relief from
the Board of Commissioners of the county.
   (J)   Fee schedule electronic map data. The fee schedule for the
transmission of the county electronic map data, effective as January 12, 2004,
is as follows:
      (1)   Complete map data layers:
         (a)   An annual fee of $1,500, paid in advance, for the continuous
transmission of available and disclosable countywide non-photo electronic map
data layers;
         (b)   A fee of $750, paid in advance for a one time delivery of
available and disclosable countywide non-photo electronic map data layers
delivered on a CD; and
         (c)   A fee of $750, paid in advance, for a one time delivery of a
county’s most recent aerial photo layer delivered on CDs.
      (2)   Subsets of map data layers (for less than countywide areas): A fee
of $75 per hour for the preparation of one time specifically requested subsets
of county electronic map data.
      (3)   Separating disclosable and non-disclosable data: A fee of $150 per
hour for computer programming required to separate disclosable and non-
disclosable electronic map data if this is required as part of a one time map
data request.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 34.04 COPYING, FACSIMILES AND CERTIFICATIONS.
   The county officer holders and employees shall charge the following:
   (A)   Photocopying: $0.10 per black and white copy and $0.20 per color copy;
   (B)   Facsimiles: $0.25 per page;
   (C)   Certifications: $1 per page; and
   (D)   DVD copying: $25 per DVD.
(Council Ord. 2010-2, passed 8-26-2010; Am. Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-9-2022)
§ 34.05 HEALTH DEPARTMENT FEE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Established; power. The Daviess County Board of Health is empowered to
establish and collect fees in accord with the following definitions and
provisions.
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this section:
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. This term shall mean an agent in principal of
the Board and health officer as provided in I.C. 16-20-1-14.
      BOARD. As used herein, this term shall mean the Daviess County Board of
Health as provided for in I.C. 16-20-2.
      HEALTH OFFICER. This term shall mean the County Health Officer as
provided for in I.C. 16-20-2-16.
      PERSON. This term shall mean any individual, partnership, co-partnership,
firm, company, corporation or association.
   (C)   Fees for services.
      (1)   The Board of Health may, with the approval of Daviess County
Commissioners, establishing and collect fees for specific services and records
established by local ordinances and state law. However, fees may not exceed the
cost of services provided.
      (2)   Fee exemptions. Fees may be exempted for community partners,
corporations, organizations or individuals on a case-by-case basis as
determined by the Health Officer in conjunction with Department staff.
Exemptions will be determined, as necessary, when the potential for on-the-job
exposure is at a higher risk than that of the general public; when a public
health emergency is declared, resulting in an increased risk of potential
disease transmission; when on-going medical evaluation is required due to a
potential exposure incident; or for other reasons determined necessary for the
prevention of disease transmission to the general public.
   (D)   Fees schedule.
      (1)   The Board of Health shall establish a fees schedule in accordance
with provisions of this section. The fees schedule shall be periodically
reviewed and amended at the request of the Health Officer as necessary to
compensate for the changes in costs associated with services provided. Any
amendments to the fees schedule must be approved by the Daviess County
Commissioners pursuant to I.C. 16-20-2-27.
         (a)   The fees schedule as established by the Board shall be a
separate attached document in accordance with this section and shall be made a
part thereof of this section. It shall contain all relevant fees as associated
with the services provided by the Daviess County Health Department; all fees
established in separate ordinances pertaining to the specific services provided
are hereby repealed; the remainder of those separate ordinances shall not be
affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
         (b)   Disposition of fees.  All fees collected by the Board shall be
transferred to the Daviess County Health Fund pursuant to I.C. 16-20-1-27;
except for those fees collected through public health services, which shall be
receipted into the County Health Fund in accordance to I.C. 16-46-10-4. The
Commissioners and the Board are in agreement that monies collected in
accordance with the provisions of this section are only to be used for the
maintenance or future expansion of the Daviess County immunization program and
Board of Health Services.
      (2)   (a)   Except where otherwise specified, any defined term in this
section shall have the definition given to it by ordinance. This order shall be
in full force from and after its passing and publication.
         (b)   Health Service/fees/other county health jurisdictions. Fees
collected for health services provided to individuals in other county health
jurisdictions and involving payment from county tax revenue shall be collected
in accord with an agreement pursuant to I.C. 16-20-1-27.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 2012-3, passed 5-14-2012; Ord. 2012-4,
passed 8-13-2012; Ord. 2012-5, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 2013-4, passed 7-8-2013;
Ord. 2013-5, passed 8-12-2013; Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-10-2014; Ord. 2014-2,
passed 3-24-2014; Ord. 2014-6, passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 2015-6, passed 8-24-
2015; Ord. 2016-1, passed 2-23-2016; Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-22-2016; Ord. 2017-
2, passed 8-22-2017; Ord. 2018-3, passed 1-23-2018; Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-8-
2019; Ord. 2019-5, passed 7-23-2019; Ord. 2020-6, passed 8-11-2020; Ord. 2021-
3, passed 6-8-2021; Ord. 2021-9, passed 10-12-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-2, passed 4-
26-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-5, passed 9-13-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Fees schedule, see
App. A below
§ 34.06 REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT FEE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Daviess County, Indiana authorizes the
Daviess County Auditor to collect a fee of $10 for each legal description of
each parcel contained in the deed for which the Auditor makes a real property
endorsement.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a DEED is a signed instrument
containing some legal real property transfer, bargain, or contract.
   (C)   Said fee is effective July 9, 2019 and is in addition to any other fee
provided by law.
   (D)   The Auditor shall place the revenue received under this section in a
county fund dedicated for the use in maintaining plat books.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person(s) who violates the terms and conditions of this
section by failing to pay for purchased electronic map data shall be liable for
total fee charged for the electronic map data plus attorney’s fees and the cost
of collection.
      (2)   Any person(s) who violates the restrictions on the use of
electronic map data as set forth in §
34.03(G) shall be guilty of an infraction, and may be fined by the county up to
$2,500, and each violation shall be deemed a separate offence. Also, in the
event that there is an improper use of electronic map data as set forth in §
34.03(G), or in violation of state or federal law, the county may prohibit the
person(s) (as defined by I.C. 5-14-3-2) from obtaining any electronic map data
and seek injunctive relief from any misuse of electronic map data by the person
(s) who originally purchased the electronic map data or any other person(s) who
has received a copy of the electronic map data.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 1-10-2005)
APPENDIX A: FEES SCHEDULE
   Fees schedule established and collected in accordance with §
34.05(D) above and made a part thereof.
Services Fees
Services                                           Fees
Vital Records Services                              
Birth certificate reg. size                        $10
Birth certificate wallet size                      $10
Additional birth certificate protective sleeve     $2
Death certificate                                  $10
Paternity affidavit                                $10
Paternity upon marriage                            $10
Affidavit of amendment                             $10
Copies for genealogy (death certificates)          $5
                                                   
Environmental Health Services                       
Commercial septic system application/permit        $100
Residential septic system application              $25
Residential septic system permit                   $75
Septic installer certificate application           $100
Septic installer certification                     $25 (annual)
Water sample collections                           $50
Tattoo/body piercing parlor permit                 $200 (annual)
Tattoo/body piercing artist permit                 $50 (annual)
Temporary/mobile tattoo/body piercing permit       $500
(5-day maximum per single event)
Retail food service permit                         $125
Late fee for retail/mobile food service permit
(submitted/postmarked after January 10 of the year $100
due)
Retail food service permit after July 1            $75 (new permit only)
Mobile food service permit                         $100 (annual)
Retail/mobile food establishment plan review       $75
Bed and breakfast permit                           $35 (annual)
Temporary food service permit  (14 day maximum or  $50
single event)
Late fee for temporary food service permit         $50
(if not received one week prior to start date)
                                                   
Pubic Health Services                               
(Public health services fees shall be receipted into the Local Health
Maintenance Fund)
Immunization record                                Free
Mantoux test                                       $10
De-bug lice treatment                               
Small bottle                                       $6 or current market price
Large bottle with comb                             $14 or current market price
Small bottle with comb                             $6 or current market price
Oil                                                $5 or current market price
Lice comb                                          $3 or current market price
Community Educational Courses                       
CPR                                                $30
CPR card: heart saver                              $20
CPR card: healthcare provider                      $10
Adult first aid/CPR                                $60
Safe sitter course                                 $35
Blood borne pathogen training                      $10
TB course                                          $25
TB course recertification                          $15
TB replacement card                                $7
Sexually transmitted disease/ infection testing    $25 or hardship scale
STD/STI treatment                                  $10 or hardship scale
                                                   
Lead                                                
Nurse case management (15 minute increments up to
the first 6.5 hours)                               $8.84/15 minutes
(Lead levels above 5 micrograms per deciliter and
ages birth to  20 years)
                                                   
Immunization Administration                         
Immunization administration, 1 vaccine (single or  $40
combination vaccine/toxoid)
Each additional vaccine (single or combination     $40
vaccine/toxoid)
Immunization administration by intranasal or oral
route, 1 vaccine (single or combination vaccine/   $40
toxoid)
Each additional intranasal or oral vaccine
administration (single or combination vaccine/     $40
toxoid)
Janssen Covid-19 vaccine administration            $40
Moderna Covid-19 vaccine administration - first    $40
dose
Moderna Covid-19 vaccine administration - second   $40
dose
Pfizer-Biontech Covid-19 vaccine administration -  $40
first dose
Pfizer-Biontech Covid-19 vaccine administration -  $40
second dose
 
Immunizations Vaccine Components Fee
Immunizations                        Vaccine Components         Fee
Rotateq                              Rotavirus                  $110
Rotarix                              Rotavirus                  $125
Pentacel                             Dtap - Hib - IPV           $120
Pediarix                             Dtap - HepB - IPV          $90
Haemophilus B Conjugate (ActHib)     Hib                        $60
Prevnar-13                           Pneumococcal               $310
Prevnar-20                                                     $340
Polio (IPOL)                         IPV                        $40
Dtap (Infanrix/Daptacel)             Dtap                       $40
Hepatitis A PEDIATRIC (Havrix/Vaqta) Hep A                      $65
Hepatitis B PEDIATRIC                Hep B                      $35
Dtap and IPV (Kinrix)                Dtap - IPV                 $65
MMR II                               Mumps, measles, rubella    $115
Varivax                              Varicella                  $190
ProQuad                              MMR-Varicella              $275
Tdap (Boostrix/Adacel)               Tdap                       $55
Meningococcal (Menactra)             Meningococcal              $135
Heplisav-B                           Adult Hepatitis B          $165
Shingrix                             Shingrix shingles vaccine  $210
Meningococcal B                      Meningococcal B (Bexsero)  $210
Meningococcal B                      Meningococcal B (Trumenba) $170
Gardasil 9                           HPV 9                      $300
Tetanus Diphtheria                   Tetanus Diphtheria         $60
Hepatitis A ADULT (Havrix/Vaqta)     Hep A                      $130
Hepatitis B ADULT                    Hep B                      $80
Twinrix ADULT                        Hep A - Hep B              $100
Fluzone, age 6 months to 35 months   Influenza PVT 0.25         $30
Quadrivalent Flu 0.5 ml              Influenza                  $25
Pedvax HIB Haemophilus B             HIB                        $35
Imovax Rabies                        Rabies                     $340
Typhoid Typhim VI                    Typhoid                    $110
Hiberix                              HIB                        $35
Zostavax                             Shingles                   $240
High Dose                            Influenza                  $65
Pneumo-vax23                         Pneumococcal               $155
Janssen Covid-19 Vaccine             Janssen Covid 19           $0
Moderna Covid-19 Vaccine             Moderna Covid 19           $0
Pfizer-Biontech Covid-19 Vaccine     Pfizer Covid 19            $0
BianaxNOW Rapid COVID Testing                                  $100
Vaxelis                                                        $240
Menquadfi                                                      $200
                                                               
 
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 6-13-2011; Ord. 2012-3, passed 5-14-2012; Ord. 2012-5,
passed 11-26-2012; Ord. 2013-4, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 2013-5, passed 8-12-2013;
Ord. 2014-1, passed 2-10-2014; Ord. 2014-2, passed 3-24-2014; Ord. 2014-6,
passed 11-10-2014; Ord. 2015-6, passed 8-24-2015; Ord. 2016-1, passed 2-23-
2016; Ord. 2016-8, passed 11-22-2016; Ord. 2017-2, passed 8-22-2017; Ord. 2018-
3, passed 1-23- 2018; Ord. 2019-1, passed 1-8-2019; Ord. 2019-5, passed 7-23-
2019; Ord. 2021-3, passed 6-8-2021; Ord. 2021-9, passed 10-12-2021; Am. Ord.
2022-5, passed 9-13-2022)
CHAPTER 35: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
35.01   Development Commission
   
35.02   Levee/Ditch Committee
   
35.03   Local Advisory Council
   
35.04   Ambulance Advisory Board
   
35.05   Capital Projects Board; prohibitions
   
35.06   E-911 Advisory Board
§ 35.01 DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Development Commission shall have three members and shall be
appointed as follows: the Commission shall be appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners as follows: one of the members shall be selected by the Board of
County Commissioners, one shall be appointed by the County Council and one
shall be nominated by the Council of the City of Washington.
   (B)   (1)   The Commissioners shall take office upon their appointment, and
their term of office shall run the following number of years from February
following the original appointment.
         (a)   The Commissioner selected by the Board of County Commissioners
for three years.
         (b)   The Commissioner appointed by the County Council, two years.
         (c)   The Commissioner nominated by the Council of the City of
Washington, one year.
      (2)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to notify the executive
officers required to make selections in governing bodies required to make
nominations informing that they have a duty to make selections and shall do so
within 15 days after receiving the notice.
      (3)   Each of the selectees and nominees shall be appointed by the
appropriate executive officer within two days after receiving the nomination.
   (C)   At the expiration of their respective terms, each of the Commissioners
originally appointed, their respective successors shall be selected and
nominated before the expiration of the term in the same manner as the original
appointee and each succeeding member shall serve for a term of four years.
      (1)   In the event any governing body shall fail to make nomination
within the time specified, the executive officer may select and appoint a
person without a nomination.
      (2)   The Commission shall have the powers as set and given to it in the
Indiana Code.
(Ord. passed 7-20-1981)
§ 35.02 LEVEE/DITCH COMMITTEE.
   (A)   It has come to the attention of the County Board of Commissioners that
the Shufflebarger Levee, constructed in 1928 with the last assessment of
benefitted land owners contingent thereto having occurred in 1964, has no
committee to determine the appropriate assessment of the levee for its
maintenance. It has further come to the attention of the County Board of
Commissioners that the levee was damaged in the recent floods and Federal
Emergency Management Agency funds are now available for the repair of the
levee.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners who annually on the first meeting of
every year designates themselves as the Ditch Board of the county for any and
all ditches, levees and conservancy districts and drainage districts, who do
not otherwise have an appointed committee to administer needed maintenance and
repair and to determine the assessments for each entity for that purpose. It
being the case that Shufflebarger Levee has no committee and the residents
adjacent thereto now desiring same, the Board of Commissioners of the county do
hereby reaffirm that they shall serve as the Shufflebarger Levee for any and
all purposes, not necessarily limited to dealing with the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, determining the needs of the levee as far as repair and
maintenance, and the assessment of adjacent landowners to insure its continued
maintenance, repair and upkeep.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners will relinquish its rights and
duties as the Levee Committee at any time the adjacent landowners and/or owners
of any real estate benefitted by the Shufflebarger Levee come before the County
Commissioners with a consensus of opinion regarding the Committee amongst the
landowners themselves, but shall serve as the Committee until and unless the
eventuality occurs.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 3-11-1991)
§ 35.03 LOCAL ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners now deems it to be in the best
interest of the county and its citizens to establish a Local Advisory Council.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes the Local Advisory
Council of the county. The department will be controlled by five members known
as the “Local Advisory Council”.
   (C)   The Board of County Commissioners of the county shall appoint all five
of the members of the Local Advisory Council.
   (D)   The Council must include at least two representatives of the
disabilities community or elderly voters.
   (E)   The County Commissioners are encouraged to appoint county residents
with a variety of backgrounds, partisan affiliations and perspectives to serve
on the Local Advisory Council.
   (F)   The term of the office of the members of the Local Advisory Council
shall be for a term of three years, or until their replacements are appointed.
   (G)   The responsibilities of the Local Advisory Council will include the
evaluation, approval and recommendation of any temporary or permanent
improvements made to polling places in the county, as well as the approval
necessary for relocation of polling places in order to comply with the
accessibility standards as set forth in I.C. 3-11-8 and in compliance with
state and federal law.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 35.04 AMBULANCE ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   To establish an agency of county government to be known as the
“Daviess County Ambulance Board”.
      (2)   The Ambulance Advisory Board established by this chapter will be
expected to assure efficient and high quality ambulance services to all the
citizens of the county in the most cost-effective fashion. Due to the
distinctive geographic configuration of the county and its population density
variations, the most effective method of providing quality ambulance services
to all of the areas of the county is to establish an Ambulance Advisory Board
to provide guidance to the County Commissioners regarding the operation of a
county operated ambulance service.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADVISORY BOARD. The Daviess County Ambulance Advisory Board established
by this chapter.
      AMBULANCE. Any conveyance on land, water or air that is used or is
intended to be used for the purpose of responding to emergency life-threatening
situations and providing emergency transportation services.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of Daviess County,
Indiana.
      EMERGENCY AMBULANCE SERVICES. The transportation of emergency patients by
ambulance and the administration of emergency patients before or during
transportation.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL CARE. The following:
         (a)   Assessment of emergency patients;
         (b)   Administration of oxygen;
         (c)   Utilization of mechanical breathing devices;
         (d)   Performance of cardiopulmonary resuscitation;
         (e)   Application of dressings and bandage materials;
         (f)   Application of splinting and immobilization services;
         (g)   Utilization of lifting and moving devices to ensure safe
transport;
         (h)   Utilization of an automatic or semi-automatic defibrillator if
the defibrillator is used in accordance with training procedures established by
the State EMS Commission; and
         (I)   Other procedures authorized by the State EMS Commission.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE FACILITY. Those facilities that are licensed
and operated under I.C. 16-18-2-111 and are equipped, prepared and staffed to
provide medical care for emergency patients.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES. The provision of emergency ambulance services
or other services, utilized in serving an individual’s need for immediate
medical care in order to prevent loss of life or aggravation or physiological
or psychological illness or injury.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN. An individual who is certified by the State
EMS Commission to provide emergency medical care at the scene of an accident,
illness or during transport.
      EMERGENCY PATIENT. An individual who is acutely ill, injured or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless and who requires emergency medical services. The term
includes an individual who:
         (a)   Requires transportation on a litter or cot; or
         (b)   Is transported in a vehicle certified by the State EMS
Commission as an ambulance.
      INDIANA EMS COMMISSION.  The State Emergency Medical Services Commission
created by I. C. 16-31-2.
      PERSON. Any natural person or persons, firm, partnership, corporation,
company, association or joint stock association, and the person’s legal
successors, including any governmental agency or instrumentality other than an
agency instrumentality of the United States.
   (C)   Establishment of the County Ambulance Advisory Board. There is hereby
established a County Ambulance Advisory Board within the executive branch of
the county government for the purpose of establishing, maintaining and
regulating emergency ambulance service in the county. The County Commissioners
and County Ambulance Advisory Board shall be responsible for the organization,
administration and operation of the Board.
   (D)   The County Ambulance Advisory Board established.
      (1)   The Daviess County Ambulance Advisory Board shall consist of nine
members appointed as follows.
         (a)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint members to the Advisory
Board as follows:
            1.   Communications dispatcher residing in Daviess County that is
certified as an "Emergency Medical Dispatcher" (EMD);
            2.   A Daviess Community Hospital Emergency Department (ED) Nurse
Manager/ EMS Coordinator;
            3.   Daviess Community Hospital ED Medical Director or other
designee of Daviess Community Hospital;
            4.   The City of Washington Chief of Police, or its designee;
            5.   The City of Washington Fire Chief, or its designee;
            6.   Daviess County Emergency Management Director;
            7.   The Daviess County Sheriff, or its designee;
            8.   The chair of the Volunteer Fire Chiefs Association, or such
group's designee; and
            9.   A member of a Volunteer Fire Department, appointed by the
Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   These members will serve on the Advisory Board only while
holding the office or position specified herein.
      (2)   Ex-officio members of the Advisory Board shall be as follows: The
three incumbent members of the County Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   A vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term of office of
an Advisory Board member shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointments for the unexpired terms. Except as limited herein, members may be
reappointed.
      (4)   The members of the Advisory Board shall, as soon as possible after
the initial appointment is made, meet and elect one member as Chairperson and
another member as Vice Chairperson and another as Secretary. The officers of
the Advisory Board shall be elected by the Advisory Board and serve for a two
year term.
      (5)   For purposes of transacting business, a majority of the membership
of the Advisory Board constitutes a quorum. A vacancy in the membership does
not impair the right of the quorum to transact business.
      (6)   Duties of the County Ambulance Advisory Board:
         (a)   The Advisory Board shall actively oversee the operation of the
active county contracted ambulance service;
         (b)   The Advisory Board shall make at least one annual report to the
Board of Commissioners concerning an evaluation of the effectiveness of the
ambulance services in the county and shall make recommendations concerning
improvement, modification and continuance or discontinuance of the program, and
additional reports and meetings may be called by the Board of Commissioners;
         (c)   The Advisory Board shall meet at least once quarterly; the
frequency, time and place to be determined by the Advisory Board; and
         (d)   The county subsidized ambulance service will provide to the
Advisory Board quarterly reports that include but is not limited to: number of
runs divided into basic life support (BLS) runs and advanced life support runs
(ALS).
      (7)   The Ambulance Advisory Board is a "public agency" as defined in
I.C. Title 5, Article 14, relating to public meetings and access to public
records. However, medical records of patients shall not be considered public
records.
(Ord. 2005-09, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 2013-01, passed 1-4-2013; Ord. 2017-7,
passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 2021-7, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 35.05 CAPITAL PROJECTS BOARD; PROHIBITIONS.
   Ord. 2007-3 is hereby adopted by the County Council to prohibit the Capital
Projects Board from reviewing, revising and reducing the budget, tax rate and
tax levy of each political subdivision located in the county.
(Council Ord. 2007-3, passed 12-12-2007)
§ 35.06 E-911 ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Board shall be as follows: to review
requests for emergency management/E-911 equipment in departments, and
subsequent expenditures of the E-911 account. This Board is advisory only and
all recommendations shall be reviewed by the respective governing bodies.
   (B)   Membership. Prior to the establishment of a combined City of
Washington and County Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) (a "Combined PSAP")
for E911 services, the five voting members of the Board shall be selected as
follows:
      (1)   One member to be selected by the Sheriff of Daviess County,
Indiana. Such member shall be currently employed as a law enforcement officer
of Daviess County, Indiana. The initial term of such position shall be for one
year.
      (2)   One member to be appointed by the Daviess County Commissioners. The
initial term of such position shall be for two years.
      (3)   One member to be appointed by the Daviess County Council. The
initial term of such position shall be for three years.
      (4)   One member from a Daviess County Volunteer Fire Department such
member to be appointed by the Daviess County Fire Chief's Association. The
initial term of such position shall be for three years.
      (5)   The current Emergency Management Director (an annual Commissioners'
appointment). The initial term of such position shall be for one year.
      (6)   After a Combined PSAP is established, the Board will add two more
members, to wit: one member to be appointed by the City of Washington Police
Chief, and one member to be appointed by the City of Washington Fire Chief,
with the initial term of such positions to be determined by the Board, and such
initial terms may not exceed three years.
      (7)   With the addition of the two additional positions specified in
division (B)(6) herein, the Board will have seven voting members.
   (C)   Terms of appointment. The initial term of the members shall be
staggered (as detailed herein) and upon completion, subsequent terms of Board
members shall be for a three-year period with all terms ending on the December
31 of the year. Members shall serve their first full-term until replaced or
reappointed. Such terms and position term periods shall be maintained in
records by the Board and shall be regularly communicated to the Auditor's
Office. If an appointment is made to fill the unexpired term of a prior member,
or an appointment is made after January 1 of a particular year, the term will
expire of December 31 of the applicable year.
   (D)   Organization. Advisory Board members shall, after their appointment,
meet to organize themselves, select a president, vice-president and secretary
and thereafter meet not less than once every three months for regularly
scheduled meetings. Meetings of the Advisory Board shall be made public and in
compliance with the Indiana Open Door Act. Minutes of the meetings of the
Advisory Board shall be kept and a copy of all minutes adopted shall be
referred to the Daviess County Auditor and the Commissioners.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 1-22-2019)
Cross reference:
   Emergency Management, see Ch.
36
CHAPTER 36: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Enhanced Emergency Telephone System
   
36.01   Establishment
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Monthly fee
   
36.04   Service supplier fee
   
36.05   Remittal of fee
   
36.06   Establishment of Fund
   
36.07   Delinquent fee report
   
36.08   Commencement of fee collection
   
36.09   Indiana Code controlling
   
36.10    Central dispatch
Emergency Management
   
36.20   General provisions
   
36.21   Definitions
   
36.22   Organization and administration
   
36.23   Powers, regulations and procedures
   
36.24   Construction; effect on prior provisions
Cross reference:
   E-911 Advisory Board, see
§ 35.06
ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM
§ 36.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   Under the authority of and subject to the provisions of the I.C. 36-8-
16 et seq., an emergency telephone system fee is hereby established for the
funding of the installation and operation of the enhanced emergency telephone
system in the county.
   (B)   The fee shall be collected from the telephone service users of the
county, and administered in accordance with the Indiana Code, as outlined at
I.C. 36-8-16 et seq., and the following terms set forth in this subchapter.
(Council Ord. 95-1A, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM. A telephone system that uses the three
digit “911" number to send automatic number identification and automatic
location identification for reporting police, fire, medical or other emergency
situations.
   EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY.
      (1)   The access from a particular service users premises to a telephone
system, which shall include:
         (a)   An access line;
         (b)   A private branch exchange (PBX) trunk;
         (c)   A centrex line trunk equivalent, all of which are provided by
the service supplier; and
         (d)   A mobile telephone system access trunk, whether the trunk is
provided by a telephone company or a radio common carrier.
      (2)   The term does not include:
         (a)   A service supplier owned and operated telephone pay station
line;
         (b)   A wide area telecommunication service (WATS);
         (c)   A foreign exchange (FX) line; or
         (d)   An incoming only line.
   SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person who provides exchange telephone service to a
service user.
   SERVICE USER. A person to whom exchange telephone service is provided.
(Council Ord. 95-1A, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 36.03 MONTHLY FEE.
   A monthly fee of $1.89 per month per telephone access line or other exchange
access facility shall be collected by the service supplier of each month or
part of a month an exchange access facility is in service as a part of its
normal billing process.
(Council Ord. 95-1A, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 36.04 SERVICE SUPPLIER FEE.
   Each service supplier that collects the enhanced emergency telephone system
fee on behalf of the county shall be entitled to a 3% administrative fee as
compensation for collecting the monthly fee.
(Council Ord. 95-1A, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 36.05 REMITTAL OF FEE.
   (A)   Each service supplier shall remit all monthly fees collected, except
for the 3% administrative fee, to the County Treasurer, within ten days of the
last day of each calendar-year quarter.
   (B)   At the same time the fees are remitted, the service supplier shall
provide a fee collection report to the County Auditor, on a form approved or
provided by the Auditor.
(Council Ord. 95-1A, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 36.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   (A)   The County Treasurer shall establish a separate fund for the deposit
of collected enhanced emergency telephone system fees.
   (B)   The fund shall be known as “The Daviess County Enhanced Emergency
Telephone System Fund”.
   (C)   All fees remitted by the service supplier shall be deposited in the
fund. The County Treasurer may invest the money in the fund in the same manner
that other money of the county may be invested.
   (D)   The fees imposed in the County Enhanced Emergency Telephone System
Fund shall be used only for the payment of the following:
      (1)   The lease, purchase or maintenance of enhanced emergency telephone
equipment, including necessary computer hardware, software and data base
provisioning;
      (2)   The rates associated with the service suppliers’ enhanced emergency
telephone system network services; and
      (3)   The personnel expenses of the emergency telephone system. The
County Council may appropriate money in the fund only for the expenditures.
(Council Ord. 95-1A, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 36.07 DELINQUENT FEE REPORT.
   (A)   During January of each year, each service supplier that collects the
enhanced emergency telephone system fee for the county shall provide a
delinquent fee report to the County Treasurer.
   (B)   The report shall list the name, address and amount due from each
service user who is two or more months delinquent in paying the fee.
   (C)   The services supplier shall also indicate the amount of delinquent
fees for which each person included on the list is liable.
(Council Ord. 95-1A, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 36.08 COMMENCEMENT OF FEE COLLECTION.
   Each service supplier shall commence collection of the enhanced emergency
telephone system fee as soon as it is administratively practicable after the
effective date of this subchapter.
(Council Ord. 95-1A, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 36.09 INDIANA CODE CONTROLLING.
   This subchapter shall be applied, construed and administered in accordance
with the I.C. 36-6-16 et seq., and any amendment thereto. In the event that
I.C. 36-8-16 et seq., shall be amended by the state in a manner so as to become
inconsistent, or cause a conflict with the provisions of this subchapter, then,
and in that event, this subchapter shall be amended to include and adopt those
provisions of the Indiana Code amending I.C. 36-8-16 et seq., as if the same
were fully set forth and incorporated herein.
(Council Ord. 95-1A, passed 3-14-1995)
§ 36.10 CENTRAL DISPATCH.
   (A)   The Daviess County Central Dispatch (the “central dispatch”) is hereby
established to administer the county-wide emergency telephone system in Daviess
County (commonly referred to “the E-911 system” and further provided for in
I.C. 36-8-16). The central dispatch system shall be operational on or before
January 1, 2022. The central dispatch shall be administered by a Finance Board
and an Operations Board, further detailed in that certain interlocal agreement
attached hereto.
   (B)   The central dispatch shall be funded by revenues from E-911 funds,
contributions from the city and the county, and other sources as provided for
in the interlocal agreement or state law. During the term of the central
dispatch, the city and county will work in good faith to find alternative
sources with which to fund the central dispatch. For example, the parties may
seek legislative changes in financing methods, 911 telephone tax amendments, or
income tax amendments.
   (C)   The Director of central dispatch shall be determined and selected by
the Operations Board, in accordance with the interlocal agreement.
   (D)   Certain city employees shall become employees of the county within the
central dispatch department as of January 1, 2022. The parties anticipate the
added employees transitioning from the City of Washington will not exceed four
in number. The county shall credit the employees with the number of years
worked for the city. Such employees may “carry over” unused vacation and sick
days, but shall thereafter receive the benefits and salary offered by the
county and shall abide by all personnel policies of the county. The county
anticipates it will be compensated by the city for such employee carry over of
unused days.
   (E)   The city shall transfer title to the county of the following described
personal property and equipment specified in Exhibit A, which is attached to
Ordinance 2021-12 and incorporated herein by reference as if set out in full.
   (F)   The central dispatch shall be solely responsible for the dispatching
of all emergency services previously operated separately by the City of
Washington and Daviess County. The services shall be conducted in accordance
with that certain Interlocal Agreement effective September__, 2021. Attached
Exhibit B, which is attached to Ordinance 2021-12 and incorporated herein by
reference as if set out in full.
   (G)   The transfer of city personnel and personal property, and the
dispatching of the city’s emergency services, shall be effective January 1,
2022, unless amended by the Commissioners.
   (H)   If the temporary central dispatch begins operations prior to January
1, 2022, the dispatchers of the City of Washington shall remain employees of
the city until such date, but operate from the central dispatch location under
the direction of the central dispatch supervision.
   (I)   The physical location of the central dispatch will be within the
current Daviess County Security Center.
(Ord. 2021-12, passed 12-28-2021)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 36.20 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Applicability of section. The provisions of this section and §
36.21, unless otherwise indicated, also apply to, govern, and refer to matters
contained in §§
36.22 through
36.24 of this subchapter.
   (B)   General intent; liberal construction of powers. The general intent of
this subchapter is to provide for all necessary and indispensable powers and
procedures reasonably needed to prevent, cope with, or make more tolerable
emergency conditions. All powers, both ministerial and discretionary, conferred
herein shall be liberally construed and shall be construed as intending to
supplement and augment, and not to limit, any other powers or reasonable
exercise of discretion which may ordinarily pertain to county officers,
employees, departments, and agencies.
   (C)   Nonsupersession of powers of Sheriff. Nothing in this subchapter is
intended to supersede or limit any statutory powers of the County Sheriff to
determine, respond to, and provide for the control of public disasters and
other emergency situations under the provisions of I.C. 10-16-7-9 and 10-16-7-
10, as amended.
   (D)   Nonsupersession of other powers. Nothing in this subchapter is
intended to supersede or limit the powers of any political subdivision under
I.C. 10-14-3 to adopt and implement emergency plans, and promulgate and enforce
special emergency regulations and procedures in the advent of an actual
emergency affecting such political subdivision. However, pursuant to I.C. 10-
14-3-22, such regulations and procedures as promulgated by the political
subdivision may not be inconsistent with the county emergency management
regulations and procedures.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 36.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL. The Daviess County Emergency Management Advisory Council
as established under §
36.22(A) of this chapter.
   COMMISSIONERS. Those elected public officials who serve on the Board of
Commissioners of the County of Daviess.
   COUNTY. The County of Daviess, State of Indiana.
   DIRECTOR. The County Director of Emergency Management as established and
appointed pursuant to §
36.22(C) of this chapter.
   EMERGENCY. A condition resulting from enemy attack, or other hostile action,
or from natural, man made, or technological disasters, which cannot be handled
by normal operating personnel or facilities.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the execution of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which the military forces are primarily
responsible, for protection against and to minimize and repair injury and
damage resulting from enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action or by
natural and man made disasters.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management including persons and private
agencies or governmental units offering services to the county during emergency
situations or mutual aid to other emergency agencies who request assistance.
   MAN MADE DISASTER. Any man made condition such as riots, strikes,
insurrections, or other civil disturbances.
   NATURAL DISASTER. Any condition affecting or threatening public health,
welfare, or security as a result of flood, drought, tornado, snow, or other
natural cause.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE. Shall mean:
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated by the County Board of
Commissioners to participate in emergency activities pursuant to §
36.22 (B)(1)(d); and
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a
municipality or other municipal corporation, or a volunteer organization
designated to participate in the county’s emergency management programs and
activities pursuant to a cooperative or mutual aid agreement entered into
pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-16 and §
36.22 (D)(1)(e)of this chapter.
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER of the county. As referred to in I.C. 10-14-
3 for purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, and as referred to
hereinafter, shall mean the presiding officer of the Board of Commissioners of
the County of Daviess. The presiding officer shall be the regularly designated
President of the Board; provided, however, if he or she is absent or
incapacitated, and the Board has a regularly designated Vice President, then
the Vice President shall be the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER. If the President
is absent or incapacitated and there is no designated Vice President, then the
remaining two Commissioners shall select among themselves one to be presiding
officer in the same manner as when an ordinary business meeting needs to be
conducted in the absence of the President. If both the President and another
Commissioner are absent or incapacitated, then the remaining Commissioner shall
be the presiding officer.
   TECHNOLOGICAL DISASTER. Incidents such as severe fire, explosions, hazardous
material spills, radiological exposure, and other technological problems which
are beyond the control of regular forces.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 36.22 ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Emergency Management Advisory Council.
      (1)   In accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17, there is established and
confirmed a Daviess County Emergency Management Advisory Council, after
confirmation by the Board of Commissioners, which shall consist of the
following individuals or their designees:
         (a)   The President of the County Board of Commissioners;
         (b)   The President of the County Council;
         (c)   The Mayor of each city located in the county;
         (d)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns
in the county who shall be appointed by the Commissioners after receiving
recommendations from such legislative bodies;
         (e)   Representatives of such private and public agencies or
organizations which can be of assistance to emergency management as the
Commissioners consider appropriate or as may be added later by the Advisory
Council; and
         (f)   The commander of a local civil air patrol unit in the county, if
existing, as appointed by the Commissioners, or the commander’s designee.
      (2)   Members of the Advisory Council shall serve at the pleasure of the
appointing authority. Individuals who are members of the Advisory Council at
the time this subchapter takes effect may remain as members and may continue to
serve on the Advisory Council until their present terms expire. The Advisory
Council shall exercise general supervision and control over the Emergency
Management program in the county.
      (3)   The Advisory Council shall cause an Emergency Management Director
to be selected in accordance with division (C) below, who shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation of the
emergency management program in the county, and who shall be responsible to the
Chair of the County Advisory Council.
      (4)   The Advisory Council shall have and select a Chair, Vice-Chair, and
Recording Secretary. The Advisory Council shall meet at least bi-annually.
   (B)   Organization of the Emergency Management Department.
      (1)   There is hereby established and confirmed a Department of Emergency
Management within the executive branch of the county government for the purpose
of utilizing to the fullest extent possible the personnel and facilities of
existing county departments and agencies to prepare for and meet any emergency
as defined in §
36.21 of this chapter. The Director of Emergency Management shall be
responsible for its organization, administration, and operation. The Department
shall consist of the following:
         (a)   An executive head of the Department of Emergency Management, who
shall be known as the Director of Emergency Management, appointed in accordance
with division (C) below;
         (b)   One or more Deputy Directors who may be appointed by the
Director with the approval of the Advisory Council under the authority of the
Board of Commissioners;
         (c)   Emergency management volunteers as deemed necessary and
appointed by the Director in accordance with division (G) below;
         (d)   The employees, equipment, and facilities of all county
departments and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency management
and designated by the Commissioners to participate in the emergency management
activity;
         (e)   Staff officers with responsibility for emergency support
functions as established in the County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
including warning, communications, radiological, health, emergency care,
police, fire, light rescue, public education, and transportation, who may be
appointed by the Director but which positions shall be, so far as possible,
additional duty assignments to existing personnel; and
         (f)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees as deemed
necessary to the proper functioning of the Department, who may be appointed by
the Director.
      (2)   However, notwithstanding any other provision of this division (B),
no compensated position may be established within the Department of Emergency
Management nor any person appointed to such position without the authorization
of the Commissioners and the County Council pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3(a) and
the making of sufficient appropriations to pay such compensation. This
provision does not give the County Council any power or approval over
particular candidates for any positions, but refers only to its general
statutory powers to determine the numbers of officers, deputies, and employees
of county departments, classify positions, and adopt schedules of compensation.
In addition, it is also the intent of this division (B) that emergency
management and disaster assignments shall be as nearly consistent with normal
duty assignments as possible.
   (C)   Director of Emergency Management. At any time that a vacancy exists or
a term expires in the office of the Director, the Advisory Council shall select
the Director of Emergency Management subject to the approval of the
Commissioners. In the event the individual selected by the Advisory Council is
not approved by the Commissioners, the Advisory Council shall select another
individual to serve as Director which process shall be repeated until approval
of the Director is obtained from the Commissioners. Qualifications for the
Director will be determined by the Advisory Council subject to the approval of
the Commissioners. The Commissioners may dismiss the Director for cause upon
determining the Director to be inadequate to fulfill his or her
responsibilities, which shall include dereliction of duties (including failure
to provide the Indiana Department of Homeland Security Director required annual
reports and documentation), malfeasance in office, incompetence,
insubordination, or deliberate disregard of the directives of superior county
or state authorities, or physical or mental incapacity to perform his or her
duties.
   (D)   General powers and duties of Director.
      (1)   The Director, subject to the supervision, direction, and control of
the Advisory Council, shall be executive head of the Department of Emergency
Management and shall have responsibility for its organization, administration,
and operation, including the following specific powers and duties:
         (a)   The Director shall be responsible for public relations,
information, and education regarding all phases of emergency management.
         (b)   The Director shall be responsible for the development of a
County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, and upon adoption, shall be
responsible for such implementation, and revision of the plan as to maintain it
on a current state of readiness at all times. This plan shall include all major
cities within the county.
         (c)   The Director shall coordinate, with county political
subdivisions, all activities for emergency management and shall maintain
liaison and coordinate with all other affected agencies, public and private.
         (d)   The Director shall coordinate the recruitment and training of
volunteer personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the
county for emergency management purposes.
         (e)   The Director may seek, negotiate, and enter into (with the
approval of the Commissioners and to the extent consistent with the Indiana
Department of Homeland Security Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan)
mutual-aid arrangements with other public and private agencies for emergency
management purposes, and take all steps in accordance with such arrangements to
comply with or take advantage thereof in the event of an actual emergency
affecting the parties.
         (f)   The Director may, when such offer has been approved by the
Governor and the Commissioners, accept any offer of the federal government to
provide for the use of the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials,
or funds for emergency management purposes by way of gift, grant or loan.
         (g)   The Director, with the approval of the Commissioners, may seek
and accept from any person, firm or corporation, any gratuitous offers to
provide services, equipment, supplies, materials, funds, and licenses or
privileges to use real estate or other premises, to the county for emergency
management purposes.
         (h)   The Director may issue proper insignia and papers to emergency
management workers and other people directly concerned with emergency
management.
      (2)   The Director, in addition to the powers and duties expressly
provided above, shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a local
emergency management director as provided under I.C. 10-14-3.
   (E)   Deputy Director. If a Deputy Director has been appointed pursuant to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, he or she shall during normal times assist
the Director in the performance of his or her duties. During an emergency, the
Deputy Director shall assist the Director and fulfill the duties of the
Director in the absence or inability of the Director to serve.
   (F)   Powers and duties of Commissioners. The powers and duties of the
Commissioners pertaining to emergency management in times of normal county
operation are to:
      (1)   Maintain general supervision and knowledge of the planning and
administration for the Department of Emergency Management;
      (2)   Adopt the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan for the county;
      (3)   Coordinate the emergency management activities and make assignments
of emergency management duties to county forces in order to meet situations not
covered in the normal duties and powers of such agencies. In addition, the
Commissioners may take all necessary action to conduct tests of the emergency
management plans. Emergency management tests may be conducted at any time with
or without prior notification. All emergency tests conducted within the
boundaries of the county shall be coordinated with the Department of Emergency
Management, the County Sheriff’s Office; and
      (4)   Perform all other powers and duties reserved or assigned to them
under this subchapter and under I.C. 10-14-3.
   (G)   Emergency management volunteers.
      (1)   The Director shall make sure that all emergency management
personnel meet the following qualifications before he or she is sworn in as a
member:
         (a)   Be at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   Not be convicted of a felony;
         (c)   Complete and have on file an application form; and
         (d)   Take an oath in writing as provided in I.C. 10-14-3-27.
      (2)   Upon satisfaction of the above requirements, the applicant is
officially a member of the County Department of Emergency Management.
   (H)   Personnel. In general, any paid employees of the Department of
Emergency Management shall have the same employment status and shall be
governed by the same uniform personnel policies, rules, and procedures that
apply to other county employees.
   (I)   Budget and finance. The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in
the preparation of the budget. The County Council shall appropriate such funds
as it may deem appropriate for the purpose of emergency management. All funds
appropriated or otherwise available to the Department of Emergency Management
shall be administered by the Director, subject to the approval of the
Commissioners, in the same manner as provided by law or ordinance for other
county funds, except as otherwise provided under §
36.23(F)(1)(i) through (F)(1)(k) of this chapter.
   (J)   Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan. Consistent with the
requirements of federal preparedness assistance, the county does hereby adopt
and establish the National Incident Management System (NIMS) as developed and
administered by the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security as the
county standard for incident management. The county by doing so will seek a
coordinated effort from all agencies to effectively and efficiently provide the
highest level of incident management. Furthermore, the county recognizes the
need to utilize standardized terminology, organizational structures,
interoperable communications, consolidated action plans, unified command
structures, uniform personnel qualifications, uniform standards for planning,
training and exercising, comprehensive resource management, and designated
incident facilities during emergencies or disasters. In a manner consistent
with NIMS, a County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall be developed
by the Director and the Advisory Council and submitted to the Commissioners for
consideration and approval. The Plan shall be developed so as to be in
compliance and consistent with the requirements of applicable state and federal
law and regulations. In the preparation of this Plan, as it pertains to county
organizations, it is the intent that the services, equipment, facilities, and
personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be utilized to the
fullest extent possible. In addition, all participating emergency service
agencies that develop internal plans shall coordinate those plans with the
Department of Emergency Management in order to include such plans with the
County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan. When approved, the county
departments and agencies shall perform the functions and duties assigned by the
Plan and maintain their portion of the Plan in a current state of readiness at
all times.
   (K)   Countywide emergency management. Except as provided by §
36.20(C) and (D) of this chapter, the jurisdiction of the County Department of
Emergency Management, the jurisdiction and applicability of the county’s
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan as adopted pursuant to division (J)
above, and the exercise of any powers of the principal executive officer of the
county and the Commissioners under this subchapter, shall be comprehensive and
inclusive countywide and effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated
areas of the county.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 36.23 POWERS, REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Applicability of section. This section applies whenever:
      (1)   A disaster emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Governor pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12 and 10-14-3-13;
      (2)   A disaster emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the principal executive officer of the county pursuant to I.C. 10-
14-3-29;
      (3)   A presumptive state of emergency is deemed to exist affecting all
or part of the county causing the Director to invoke and implement emergency
plans and procedures in accordance with division (H) of this section; or
      (4)   When the Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the
county’s emergency plans and procedures in accordance with §
36.22(F) of this chapter.
   (B)   Pre-disaster responsibilities. The Department of Emergency
Management’s primary pre-disaster responsibility shall be the planning function
as prescribed in the County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan as
prescribed for the entire county, including all cities and towns.
   (C)   Special emergency powers and duties of principal executive officer. In
the event of actual or threatened enemy attack or disaster affecting the
county, the principal executive officer of the county may declare a local
disaster emergency pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29 for any period not to exceed
seven days. The declaration shall be in writing and indicate the nature of the
disaster and the conditions which have brought it about, and the area or areas
threatened and to which the state of emergency applies (which may include the
entire county or only designated parts thereof). The declaration shall be filed
in the offices of the County Clerk and the Clerk of any incorporated
municipality included in the declaration. The declaration is not invalidated
nor ineffective if any of the filing and dissemination requirements cannot be
complied with due to the prevailing adverse circumstances. Such a declaration
is not necessary if the Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12 and 10-14-3-13,
has already proclaimed a statewide or area- wide state of emergency including
the county.
   (D)   Emergency meeting of Commissioners. As soon as possible after a
disaster emergency affecting the county is declared either by the Governor or
by the principal executive officer of the county, the principal executive
officer of the county shall convene a meeting of the Commissioners to perform
their legislative and administrative functions as the situation may demand. If
the principal executive officer fails or is unable to perform the above duty,
the meeting shall be convened by some other member of the Board of
Commissioners, or by the Auditor or the successively empowered county officers,
in accordance with I.C. 36-2-2-8(a). Any such meeting of the Commissioners
shall automatically be deemed an emergency meeting subject only to such
procedural provisions of law as govern emergency meetings of County
Commissioners, including relaxation of any applicable notice requirements
pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d), and may be held in any convenient and available
place. The meeting shall continue without adjournment for the duration of the
disaster emergency but may be recessed for reasonable periods of time as
necessary and permitted by the circumstances.
   (E)   Special emergency powers in absence of Board quorum. In the event that
a quorum of the Board of Commissioners cannot be assembled for purposes of the
meeting required under division (D) of this section, the principal executive
officer of the county shall have all powers and may take all actions of the
full Board under divisions (F)(1)(b) through (F)(1)(m) of this section until
the assemblage of a quorum is possible.
   (F)   Special emergency powers and duties of Commissioners.
      (1)   At the meeting convened under division (D) above, the Commissioners
may exercise any of their normal executive and legislative powers to the extent
related to the emergency and necessary to deal therewith. In addition, however,
they may also exercise any of the following special and extraordinary powers:
         (a)   The Commissioners may extend the period of a state of emergency
declared by the principal executive officer pursuant to division (C) to last
more than seven days if necessary.
         (b)   The Commissioners may terminate the state of emergency, except
for a state of emergency proclaimed by the Governor.
         (c)   The Commissioners may order the activation and implementation of
the county’s Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan that has been adopted
pursuant to §
36.22(J) of this chapter, or such several component parts thereof as may be
relevant to the emergency.
         (d)   The Commissioners may assemble and utilize emergency management
forces, including personnel of the Department of Emergency Department,
participating emergency service agencies, and any other forces at the disposal
of the Commissioners hereunder for emergency management purposes.
         (e)   The Commissioners may order volunteer forces to the aid of the
county, state, or political subdivisions thereof as soon as practicable. Such
volunteer forces will be under the direction of the Department of Emergency
Management.
         (f)   The Commissioners may, to the extent permitted by I.C. 10-14-
3 and subject to its provisions, command services from and/or requisition the
use of equipment, facilities, supplies, or other property belonging to other
organizations, corporations, or private persons as necessary to control the
emergency and protect and provide for the public safety and welfare.
         (g)   The Commissioners may order the evacuation of all or part of the
population from stricken areas of the county, and prescribe routes, modes of
transportation, and destinations for such evacuation.
         (h)   The Commissioners may make provision for availability and use of
temporary emergency housing, which housing need not necessarily comply with any
minimum housing standards, building or zoning regulations, etc., which would
govern the use and location of premises for housing purposes during normal
times.
         (i)   The Commissioners may suspend, for the duration of the state of
emergency (or for a lesser period as they determine), any provisions of or
procedures prescribed by ordinances of the county if they would be impractical
during the emergency, would interfere with the implementation and carrying out
of emergency plans, or would be inimical to actions necessary to protect the
public safety and welfare; provided, however, that except in accordance with
division (F)(1)(j) hereinafter, the Commissioners may not suspend any
provisions of ordinances or procedures which are mandated by statute.
         (j)   In the event of enemy attack or when the state of emergency has
been proclaimed by the Governor, the Commissioners may waive any procedures or
requirements of statute or of county ordinances reflecting statutory
requirements and mandates in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3.
         (k)   The Commissioners may assign special emergency duties and
functions to any county offices, departments, and agencies irrespective of
their usual duties and functions, and any unexpended and unencumbered monies
budgeted and appropriated (major object classification) may be utilized and
expended for the purpose of carrying out such special emergency duties and
functions.
         (l)   The Commissioners may make and promulgate such emergency
regulations as may be deemed necessary to protect life and property, preserve
order, conserve critical resources, or implement and carry out the provisions
of the county’s or state’s disaster plans, including but not limited to the
power to order the roads closed, establish curfews, close businesses, or any
other action that they deem necessary to save lives and recover from a declared
emergency. This power also includes the power to supplement, modify, or suspend
any general contingency regulations which may have been incorporated as part of
the county’s previously adopted Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan. Any
emergency regulations adopted under this division shall not be effective until
promulgated, which promulgation shall be by written filing in the offices of
the County Clerk as required by I.C. 10-14-3-22; provided, however, that should
such filing be impossible because of the emergency situation, such regulations
shall have the full force of law and shall be enforceable by any police officer
in accordance with I.C. 10-14-3.
         (m)   The Commissioners may request the state or the United States or
their agencies and political subdivisions to send aid (including financial
assistance).
      (2)   All actions and regulations under this division (F) may be by
executive order, and need not be made or adopted by ordinance or resolution,
but shall be consistent with and subordinate to any actions, order, or
regulations made by the Governor or a state agency implementing the Indiana
Department of Homeland Security Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
   (G)   Special emergency powers and duties of Director.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Director to make recommendations and
advise the Board of Commissioners or the Principal Executive Officer on any
actions which it would be necessary or desirable to take under division (F) of
this section in the event of an emergency.
      (2)   In the event that an emergency clearly exists or is imminent within
the county, and a state of emergency has not been declared by the Governor nor
is any person having the powers of the principal executive officer of the
county present to declare such an emergency pursuant to division (C) of this
section, the Director may temporarily presume the existence of a state of
emergency even though not officially declared and may, as his or her own
judgment dictates, invoke, implement, and carry out such provisions of the
county’s adopted Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan as are necessary to
cope with the emergency and protect the public safety and welfare, and shall be
construed to have all powers necessary and dispensable to doing so to the
extent not specifically limited by statute or specifically limited herein,
until such time as the principal executive officer becomes available. This
section also applies to the Deputy Director to the extent that the Deputy
Director is required to assume the duties of the Director, as provided by §
36.22(E) of this chapter, in the latter’s absence or incapacitation during the
emergency. Assistance from the Department of Emergency Management may be
rendered without a declaration of an emergency in order to assist local
emergency services in time of need.
   (H)   Designation of local travel advisory.
      (1)   If the principal executive officer of the county issues a local
travel advisory as part of an emergency declaration under this subchapter, the
principal executive officer shall designate the travel advisory as falling into
one of the following categories:
         (a)   “Advisory” level.  ADVISORY, the lowest level of local travel
advisory, means that routine travel or activities may be restricted in areas
because of a hazardous situation, and individuals should use caution or avoid
those areas.
         (b)   “Watch” level.  WATCH means that conditions are threatening to
the safety of the public. During a “watch” local travel advisory, only
essential travel, such as to and from work or in emergency situations, is
recommended, and emergency action plans should be implemented by businesses,
schools, government agencies, and other organizations.
         (c)   “Warning” level.  WARNING, the highest level of local travel
advisory, means that travel may be restricted to emergency management workers
only. During a “warning” local travel advisory, individuals are directed to:
            1.   Refrain from all travel;
            2.   Comply with necessary emergency measures;
            3.   Cooperate with public officials and disaster services forces
in executing emergency operations plans; and
            4.   Obey and comply with the lawful directions of properly
identified officers.
Further and more specific restrictions, including parking restrictions, may be
included in a “warning” local travel advisory.
      (2)   If the Director or the principal executive officer of the county
determines that conditions within the county have created the need for travel
advisory restrictions without a local disaster emergency declaration under this
subchapter, the Director or the principal executive officer may issue an
“advisory” or a “watch” level travel advisory.
      (3)   A “warning” level travel advisory may be issued only after a local
disaster emergency is declared under this subchapter.
   (I)   Duties of county officers and employees during emergency. All officers
and employees of the county shall cooperate with and give active support to the
Commissioners and to the County Emergency Management Director in all emergency
management operations, and shall comply with all orders of the Commissioners
and County Emergency Management Director issued pursuant to this section.
   (J)   Priority of emergency orders, rules, and regulations. At all times
when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated pursuant to this
section shall be in effect, they supersede all existing ordinances, orders,
rules, and regulations insofar as the latter may be inconsistent therewith.
   (K)   Violations; penalties and enforcement.
      (1)   Whenever this section applies as provided in division (A) above, it
shall be unlawful and a penal ordinance violation for any person to:
         (a)   Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay the Commissioners, the
Director of Emergency Management, participating emergency service agencies,
authorized emergency management volunteers, or other authorities from
implementing, carrying out, and enforcing emergency plans and procedures;
         (b)   Fail to observe, abide by, and comply with any emergency
management duties, orders, regulations, and procedures as made applicable to
such person by the appropriate authorities; or
         (c)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Department of Emergency Management, or to otherwise falsely identify or purport
himself or herself to be a county emergency management authority.
      (2)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the state or any of its
political subdivisions, or any member of the County Department of Emergency
Management or a participating emergency service agency, is hereby empowered to
issue and serve a civil citation against any person found to be committing an
offense described above. Any person who commits an offense as described above
shall be liable to a fine of $2,500; such fine to be subject, however, to the
discretion of the court of jurisdiction.
      (3)   A person who knowingly, intentionally, or recklessly violates I.C.
10-14-3 commits a class B misdemeanor pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-34.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 6-9-2014)
§ 36.24 CONSTRUCTION; EFFECT ON PRIOR PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Construction of subchapter. This subchapter is not intended to limit
or restrict the rights and powers of county government with respect to
emergency management. The Commissioners, Emergency Management Director,
Emergency Management Advisory Council, and Department of Emergency Management
shall have all rights and powers as provided in I.C. 10-14-3. Each provision of
this subchapter shall be construed as separate to the end that if any part
shall be held invalid for any reason, the remainder shall continue in full
force and effect. This subchapter shall be effective upon the date of
publication and compliance with applicable legal requirements.
   (B)   Effect on prior emergency management ordinances. This subchapter is
intended to and shall repeal and supersede the existing County Emergency
Management Ordinance.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 6-9-2014)
CHAPTER 37: SPECIFIC FUNDS AND REVENUES
Section
   
37.01   Prosecutor’s Law Enforcement Fund
   
37.02   Innkeeper’s funds
   
37.03   Correction Fund
   
37.04   Rainy Day Fund
   
37.05   Cumulative Bridge Fund
   
37.06   ARP Grant Fund
   
37.07   Sex or Violent Offender Administration Fund
§ 37.01 PROSECUTOR’S LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners does hereby authorize the County
Auditor to create and maintain a fund to be known as the County Prosecutor Law
Enforcement Fund (P.L.E.F. hereinafter).
   (B)   The purpose of the P.L.E.F. shall be to provide monies for the use of
all law enforcement agencies in the county to aid and assist in the furtherance
of criminal investigations, including, but not limited to, drug investigations,
and including the obtaining of equipment and/or training and manpower, in the
discretion of the prosecutor.
   (C)   The County Auditor is hereby authorized to accept funds, whether by
way of voluntary contributions, court order, restitution or the assessments of
fines and costs, forfeitures and/or R.I.C.O. asset forfeiture orders,
specifically designated for use as P.L.E.F. monies; the Auditor shall accept
the monies, and the monies shall be made available for use by the prosecuting
attorney, subject to the prosecuting attorney making a claim for the monies to
the County Commissioners, by setting forth on the claim that the purpose
thereof is to obtain P.L.E.F. monies.
   (D)   The Prosecuting Attorney shall deposit warrants paid by the County
Commissioners into the checking account to be known as the Prosecutor’s Law
Enforcement Fund Checking Account, which this section authorizes the prosecutor
to establish, and shall be disbursed therefrom in accordance with the
procedures, guidelines, rules and regulations adopted by the office of the
prosecuting attorney; but that by this section the prosecuting attorney shall
not maintain a balance in the checking account in excess of $5,000 at any one
time.
   (E)   The prosecuting attorney is hereby authorized to invest those funds
held in the Prosecutor’s Law Enforcement Fund Checking Account, in a NOW
Account, or similar account which shall bear interest; the prosecuting attorney
shall account to the County Auditor for all interest earned on the account; the
interest earned on the account need not be turned over to county by the
prosecuting attorney, but may be kept and retained in the Prosecutor’s Law
Enforcement Fund Checking Account and used for the purposes and in the manner
as are other funds deposited to the Prosecutor’s Law Enforcement Fund Checking
Account.
(Ord. 91-1, passed 1-28-1991)
§ 37.02 INNKEEPER’S FUNDS.
   (A)   The Daviess County Visitor's and Convention Commission (the
"Commission") shall be considered and shall operate as a county-government
department of the county.
   (B)   The Commission shall remain subject to I.C. 6-9-18 et seq., as
amended, (the "Uniform County Innkeeper's Tax") and Daviess County Code of
Ordinances. If the Indiana Code and local ordinances directly conflict, the
state code provisions shall be controlling.
   (C)   In accordance with I.C. 6-9-18-3, after June 30, 2021, the rate of 9%
innkeeper’s tax shall be levied in Daviess County, and the Council may initiate
a change to this rate. The tax does not apply to gross income received on a
transaction with a person renting a room or lodging for 30 days or more.
   (D)   Fund(s) handling. All funds related to the Commission shall be held in
Fund 1127 by the County Auditor.
      (1)   The Council may establish additional sub-funds, upon request of the
Auditor and the Commission. The Commission, or another party, may make a
written request for an appropriation of such funds.
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 36-2-5-2(b) et seq., as amended, the
Commission shall not make an expenditure of any public funds without an
appropriation.
      (3)   All money coming into possession of the Commission shall be
deposited, held, secured, invested and paid in accordance with statutes
relating to the handling of public funds. The handling and expenditure of money
coming into possession of the Commission is subject to audit and supervision of
the State Board of Accounts and the state.
      (4)   The Commission shall not operate a bank account or foundation
separate from the county offices, obligations, and responsibilities, except
with the prior approval of the Commissioners and Council.
   (E)   Real property. Any purchases of real property shall be in accordance
with the applicable real estate acquisition statute (I.C. 36-1-10.5-5 et seq.)
and shall also require the prior approval of the Board of Commissioners and the
County Council.
   (F)   Membership. The Commission shall be made up of seven members,
appointed in accordance with I.C. 6-9-18-5 et seq. A member of the Commission
may be removed for cause by his or her appointing authority. Members of the
Commission may not receive a salary.
   (G)   Regular presentations. The Commission shall make regular presentations
to the public bodies. and no less than annually, regarding the Commission's
past activities and the use of all funds (appropriated or otherwise), and the
Commission shall also provide an annual report, not later than May 31 of each
year.
   (H)   Authority. The Commission shall report to the Board of Commissioners
in general, and to the County Council on fiscal matters.
(Council Ord. 2001-2, passed 6-12-2001; Ord. 2023-1, passed 5-23-2023)
§ 37.03 CORRECTION FUND.
   (A)   The County Auditor is hereby authorized to receive deposits from the
Department of Correction, in accordance with I.C. 11-12-6 et seq., as the
County Commissioners and County Council shall by this section elect to receive
same in accordance with the statute;
   (B)   The county does hereby elect to receive the deposits at Level 3
Funding.
   (C)   There is hereby created a “Daviess County Correction Fund”, to be
administered by the County Sheriff. The Fund shall consist of deposits received
from the Department of Correction in accordance with I.C. 11-12-6 et seq.
   (D)   The County Corrections Fund may be used only for funding the operation
of the county jail, jail programs and other local correctional facilities. Any
monies remaining in the County Correction Fund at the end of the year shall not
revert to any other fund but remain in the County Correction Fund for use as
specified in the statute regarding same and as hereinabove set forth, and shall
not require a notice of encumbrance but retention shall be automatic and in
accordance with I.C. Title 11.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 1-14-2002)
§ 37.04 RAINY DAY FUND.
   The County Council, hereinafter referred to as “the Council”, does hereby
acknowledge the following, as set forth in I.C. 36-1-8-5.1.
   (A)   There is hereby established a “Rainy Day Fund”, to receive transfers
of unused and unencumbered funds under state law and any other unused and
unencumbered county funds.
   (B)   Not more than 10% of the fiscal year’s total budget shall be
transferred into the Rainy Day Fund.
   (C)   The Rainy Day Fund shall be subject to the same appropriation process
as other funds that receive tax money.
   (D)   The County Council hereby intends to utilize its decision-making power
regarding fiscal affairs and set priorities for allocation and expenditure of
the Rainy Day Fund as deemed necessary to best serve the residents of the
county.
(Council Ord. 2007-1, passed 4-11-2007)
§ 37.05 CUMULATIVE BRIDGE FUND.
   (A)   The Daviess County Cumulative Bridge Fund is hereby established
pursuant to the provision of I.C. 8-16-3 et seq. and I.C. 6-1.1-41 et seq.
   (B)   Subject to approval by the department of the DLGF, a tax at the rate
of $.10 per each $100 assessed valuation shall be levied pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-41-10 and I.C. 8-16-3-3 on all taxable property within
Daviess County to establish the Daviess County Cumulative Bridge Fund. The tax
rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2011 payable in 2012.
   (C)   Subsequent to the approval of the initial establishment of, and tax
rate for, the Daviess County Cumulative Bridge Fund by the DLGF, a property tax
rate shall be levied annually at the initially approved rate without necessity
of further action by this Board, provided that the tax levy shall be advertised
annually in the same manner as other tax levies are advertised, subject only to
the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-41-12.
   (D)   The tax established by this section shall be deposited and held in a
special fund to be known ast the Daviess County Cumulative Bridge Fund pursuant
to the provisions of I.C. 6-1.1-41-14.
   (E)   The Daviess County Cumulative Bridge Fund may not be expended for any
purpose except constructing, maintaining, or repairing bridges, approaches, or
grade separations as set forth in I.C. 8-16-3.
   (F)   An appropriation may be made for the Daviess County Cumulative Bridge
Fund without the approval of the DLGF if this Board requests the appropriation
for the purpose of constructing, maintaining, or repairing bridges, approaches
or grade separations pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 8-16-3-3(c).
   (G)   The Daviess County Auditor shall submit a certified copy of the
ordinance codified herein, proofs of publication of the public hearing held on
April 25, 2011, together with a request to establish a hearing thereon pursuant
to the provision of I.C. 6-1.1-41 et seq., to the DLGF promptly after its
adoption in accordance with the requirements of I.C. 6-1.1-41-4, notice of
which submission shall be published as required by I.C. 6-1.1-41-5.
Statutory reference:
   2012 Public Law 137, § 42, repealed I.C. 6-1.1-41-5.
   (H)   The ordinance codified herein shall be in full force and effect upon
its passage and promulgation as evidenced by the affirmative signatures of the
signors on the ordinance codified herein, as the majority of the duly elected
and serving members of the Board.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 37.06 ARP GRANT FUND.
   (A)   Fund establishment.  There is hereby established a separate and
distinct fund to be named and identified as the "ARP Grant Fund," fund number
8950, (the "Fund") to be administered by the Daviess County Auditor.
   (B)   Fiscal administration. The County Treasurer shall serve as the
custodian of the Fund. The County Auditor shall serve as the auditing agent for
the Fund and is hereby authorized to oversee the administration of the Fund in
accordance with the auditing and accounting standards of the Indiana State
Board of Accounts. The Auditor is directed to assure that in the course of fund
administration, required internal controls compliant with the county's internal
controls policy, and the best practices related thereto, are implemented so as
to provide reasonable assurance that the ARP funds will be safeguarded and used
in accordance with the ARP and best practices. The Fund is subject to SBOA
audit.
   (C)   Receipts. Monies deposited to the Fund shall be limited to ARP funds
received by county under Section 9901 of ARP (i.e. "Coronavirus State and Local
Fiscal Recovery Funds").
   (D)   Expenditures. Expenditures from the Fund are subject to appropriation
by Council pursuant to State Examiner Directive 2021-1 of the Indiana State
Board of Accounts. All expenditures from the Fund will be subject to the
approval of the County Board of Commissioners. The ARP Funds Committee will
further develop plans, conditions and rules for use of the funds, and make such
recommendations for approval by the Board. Expenditures from the Fund are
limited to the following purposes under ARP Section 603(C):
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and nonprofits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of the
county that are performing such essential work, or by providing grants to
eligible employers that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of county due to the COVID-19 public health emergency
relative to revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the
county prior to the emergency (presumably the 2019 calendar/fiscal year); or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure.
   (E)   The Board, in consultation with Council, will develop a plan that will
detail the specific uses of the Fund (the "Plan"). This section and the plan
may be amended as any other section or plan as long as the amendment complies
with the requirements of the ARP.
   (F)   Non-reverting fund. All monies in the Fund at the end of the calendar/
fiscal year shall not revert to another fund but shall remain in the Fund as a
separate non-reverting fund.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 6-8-2021)
§ 37.07 SEX OR VIOLENT OFFENDER ADMINISTRATION FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of Sex or Violent Offender Administration Fund. The
Daviess County Sex or Violent Offender Administration Fund is hereby
established. The purpose of the fund is to defray the expense of administering
or ensuing compliance with the laws concerning the Indiana Sex and Violent
Offender Registry.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   Registration fee. The annual fee for sex and violent offenders
registering in Daviess County shall be $50.00. Payment of the fee shall be made
upon the offender's initial registration in Daviess County and subsequently on
or before each annual registration date.
      (2)   Change of address/employment fee. A fee of $5.00 shall be charged
and collected each time a sex or violent offender registers an address or
employment change with the County Sheriff's Department.
   (C)   Payment of fees. All fees collected under this section shall be
collected by the County Sheriff's Department when a sex or violent offender
registers with the County Sheriff's Department.
   (D)   Procedures. All fees collected under this section by the County
Sheriff's Department shall be transferred to the County Auditor in a timely
manner. On a monthly basis, the County Auditor shall:
      (1)   Deposit 90% of any fees collected under this section in the Daviess
County Sex and Violent Administration Fund.
      (2)   Transfer 10% of any fees collected under this section to the State
of Indiana for deposit in the State Sex and Violent Offender Administration
Fund under I.C. 11-8-8-21.
   (E)   Administration fund. Upon request of the Sheriff's Office and approval
by the County Council, the Council shall appropriate money from the County Sex
Offender Registry Fund to offset or defray any administrative costs that may
occur while handling the state law regarding sex offenders.
   (F)   Violations. Any sex and violent offenders who fail to pay their
initial or annual fee to the county shall be subject to proceedings in a court
of competent jurisdiction where they may be fined a maximum of $100.00 plus
court costs.
(Ord. 2021-5, passed 8-10-2021)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   LANDFILL PROVISIONS
      
52.   ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM AND INSTALLATION
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
50.01   Financial responsibility
   
50.02   Solid Waste District
   
50.03   Illegal waste disposal
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Heretofore on or about January 6, 1988, the state has heretofore
promulgated and adopted certain revised solid waste articles as specifically
and completely set forth in 329 I.A.C. §§ 2 et seq.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of the county does hereby adopt in its
totality Rule 12 of the revised solid waste article, the rule dealing with
financial responsibility. The rule was authorized by I.C. 13-1-12-8 and I.C.
13-7-7-5, and has affected I.C. 13-1-3, I.C. 13-7 and I.C. 36-9-30 . This rule
in its entirety regarding financial responsibility is specifically and
completely set forth in 329 I.A.C. 2-12, and is applicable to the county
landfill disposal facility as that facility is required to have a permit as
specified in 329 I.A.C. 2-8-1 on and after September 1, 1988.
   (C)   The County Commissioners, in adopting Rule 12 regarding financial
responsibility, do hereby agree to the following proposals as set forth in the
rule: establish financial assurance for closure of the facility as set forth in
329 I.A.C. 2-12-2, regarding the establishment of a trust fund, security bond,
letter of credit, insurance and adopt a financial test, if applicable, to the
county landfill. Furthermore, the County Commissioners specifically adopt the
financial responsibility for and the establishment of financial assurance for
post-closure care of the facility, including, but not necessarily limited to,
the establishment of a trust fund, security bond, letter of credit, insurance
and the establishment of a financial test, if applicable, to the county
landfill.
   (D)   The County Commissioners do further specifically adopt § 7 of the
rule/regulation regarding the requirement that they notify the Commissioner by
certified mail of the commencement of a voluntary or involuntary proceeding
under U.S.C. Title 11, naming permittee as debtor with ten days after
commencement of proceeding; do furthermore agree that they shall abide by any
penalty for failure to fund financial responsibility as set out in the section;
to further agree to abide by § 8 of the rule and regulation regarding further
penalty for any failure to obtain, maintain or fund any financial assurance
mechanism as required by this rule within the prescribed time limits which
shall be deemed to endanger human health and environment and be sufficient
cause for the immediate revocation of the county landfill facilities permit and
final closure.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its date
of passage by a majority vote of the quorum present on the date of the County
Commissioners and the County Highway Department, the county entity which
operates the county landfill, as well as the County Auditor is hereby ordered
and directed to comply with the provisions of this section as herein above set
forth and adopted this date, as the ordinance furthermore adopts Rule 12 of 329
I.A.C. §§ 2 et seq., all as specifically set forth in 329 I.A.C. 2-12-1 as
promulgated by the state, and adopted by the state on or about January 6, 1988.
(Ord. 1-88, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 50.02 SOLID WASTE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The county does hereby establish a county solid waste management
district to be known as the “Daviess County Solid Waste District” (or
“District”), organized pursuant to I.C. 13-19, to perform all of the functions
authorized and directed by the statute, as it is now promulgated or as the same
may hereafter be modified. The District shall be controlled by a board of seven
members known as the “Daviess County Solid Waste District Board of Directors”.
   (B)   All of the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the county
shall be included in the District.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 13-19, each member of the Board of Commissioners
serves as a member of the District Board of Directors, with terms to be
coextensive, with the member’s term of office on the County Board of
Commissioners.
   (D)   The remaining four members of the District Board of Directors shall be
appointed as follows:
      (1)   One member appointed by the Board of Commissioners and representing
municipalities in the county other than the largest municipality;
      (2)   One member appointed by the County Council from its membership;
      (3)   The Mayor of the City of Washington; and
      (4)   One member appointed by the Common Council of the City of
Washington from its membership.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 6-10-1991; Am. Ord. 2015-1, passed 2-23-2015)
§ 50.03 ILLEGAL WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate and control the
disposition of solid waste in the county, and to prohibit the dumping or
storing of the waste in a place other than a permitted facility, particularly
along public road sides. It is also the purpose of this section to prevent a
generator or owner of solid waste to escape liability by contracting with a
third party to dispose of the solid waste which third party wrongfully disposes
of the waste.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, household waste, household hazardous
waste or other discarded material including solid liquids, semi-solids or
contained gaseous material.
   (C)   Prohibited acts. No person or other legal entity shall discharge,
deposit, throw or cause or allow any solid waste to be discharged, deposited or
thrown or stored on any land in the county for final disposal that does not
have the proper permits, and which is also the land not owned by the generator
or owner of the solid waste.
   (D)   Defenses. It shall be a defense to the acts prohibited herein that the
solid waste was deposited, stored or thrown by:
      (1)   An act of God;
      (2)   An act of war; or
      (3)   An act or omission of a third party other than the owner or
generators or employee or agent and other than one whose act or omission occurs
in connection with a contractual relationship existing directly or indirectly
with the owner or generator of the solid waste if the defendant establishes by
a preponderance of the evidence that:
         (a)   He or she exercised due care with respect to the solid waste
concerned; and
         (b)   He or she took precautions against foreseeable acts or omissions
of any third party, and the consequences that could foreseeably result from the
acts or omissions.
(Ord. 91-7, passed 12-30-1991) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
50.03 shall be for each offense be punished by a fine of not less than $200 and
not more than $2,500.
(Ord. 91-7, passed 12-30-1991)
CHAPTER 51: LANDFILL PROVISIONS
Section
   
51.01   Use by nonresidents of the county
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 USE BY NONRESIDENTS OF THE COUNTY.
   (A)   It has come to the attention of the Board of Commissioners that
because of certain real estate restrictions, as well as restrictions being
imposed by the Department of Environmental Management upon the operations of
the county landfill, it has become necessary for the preservation of the
landfill for the benefit of the taxpayers of the county to limit usage of the
landfill to only residents of the county.
   (B)   The County Landfill Department, which is in charge of operation of the
county landfill, is hereby ordered and directed to ascertain the identity of
each driver and of each vehicle attempting to dump any refuge of whatever
nature at the county landfill, and if it be determined that the refuge has been
collected from outside of the confines of the county, is the property of a non-
county resident, or being hauled into the county by a non-resident of the
county or any combination thereof, that this vehicle shall be barred permission
and access to the county landfill.
   (C)   Each and every license of each and every vehicle using the county
landfill facility shall be recorded to ascertain ownership thereof and the
operator’s license of each and every driver of each and every vehicle shall
likewise be recorded (as to the Social Security/driver’s license number) to
ascertain the residence of the county of the driver of each and every vehicle.
(Ord. 3-88, passed 9-19-1988) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   In the event any individual, any owner of any vehicle, any owner of any
property attempting to be dumped at the county landfill, or any combination
thereof, shall be ascertained to be an out-of-county driver and/or out-of-
county owner of the vehicle and/or out-of-county owner of any property
attempting to be dumped at the county landfill, that individual, partnership,
sole proprietor, business entity, be it corporation or otherwise, or any
combination thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a Class A infraction and, upon
admitting to or having a judgment entered against the defendant(s), shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $2,500.
(Ord. 3-88, passed 9-19-1988)
CHAPTER 52: ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM AND INSTALLATION
Section
   
52.01   Title
   
52.02   Purpose
   
52.03   Authority
   
52.04   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
52.05   Supplemental definitions
   
52.06   System requirements
   
52.07   Minimum building site size
   
52.08   Permit process
   
52.09   Installation
   
52.10   Inspections
   
52.11   Petition for review
   
52.12   Remedies
 
   
52.99   Penalty; enforcement
§ 52.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amending hereto shall be
known as the On-Site Sewage Disposal System and Installation Ordinance and may
be cited as such and will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 52.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
prevention and suppression of disease and health risks associated with the use
and installation of on-site sewage systems and to otherwise promote public
safety and welfare and protection of the environment.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 52.03 AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer of Daviess County ("Health Officer") and the Health
Officer's agents and representatives are hereby authorized to issue permits,
collect permit and incidental fees, perform inspections, order or otherwise
compel correction of violations of this chapter, and are otherwise authorized
to perform all actions necessary for the administration and enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 52.04 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The regulations of the Indiana Department of Health as found in Title
410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq., 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1 et seq., Bulletin S.E. 11 et seq.,
and Bulletin S.E. 13 et seq., as amended ("applicable law"), are hereby
incorporated by reference in this chapter.
   (B)   Copies of applicable law are available at https://www.in.gov/health/or
upon request of the Daviess County Board of Health ("Board").
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 52.05 SUPPLEMENTAL DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to or to otherwise supplement those definitions contained in
applicable law, which is incorporated herein by reference, this chapter shall
include the following definitions.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. Building or structure utilized primarily for a commercial
establishment including, but not limited to, office buildings, apartments,
condominiums, motels, mobile home parks, churches, campgrounds, schools,
hospitals, nursing homes, restaurants, etc., at locations where such facilities
may be approvable.
   DUPLEX. A single dwelling under one roof as defined in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-15
with two separate living quarters for two separate families.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY UNIT. Any building or place used or intended to be used as a
place of seasonal or permanent human habitation or for sleeping for more than
two families.
   ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEM. Any sewage disposal facility not owned by a
municipality or sanitary district or administered by the Indiana Department of
Health and shall include septic tanks, aeration tanks, elevated sand mounds,
finger systems or other subsurface or elevated absorption fields.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT. Any land development, which requires the specific
zoning classification entitled PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply regulated by the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management.
   RESIDENCE. A dwelling, as defined in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3-15.
   SANITARY PRIVY. A privy so located, constructed, and maintained; as defined
in Indiana Department of Health Bulletin S.E. 11.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 52.06 SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   Where a sanitary sewer system is not available, all persons owning, leasing,
or otherwise occupying property shall comply with applicable law and the
following provisions of this section for an on-site sewage system.
   (A)   No person shall throw, run, drain, seep, or otherwise dispose into any
of the surface waters or ground waters of the county, or cause, permit, or
suffer to be thrown, run, drained, allowed to seep or otherwise disposed into
such waters, any organic or inorganic matter from an on-site sewage disposal
system that would cause or contribute to health hazard or water pollution.
   (B)   Privies shall comply with applicable law and Indiana Department of
Health Bulletin S.E. 11, as amended. Bulletin S.E. 11 is herein incorporated by
reference as part of this section and copies are available at the County Board
of Health for public inspection. In the case of self-contained chemical
toilets, no pit will be required. If a privy, chemical toilet, incinerating
toilet, composting toilet, or any other toilet that is not connected to
plumbing fixtures is utilized and any additional wastewater is generated from
the residence, duplex, multiple-family unit, or business building, an on-site
sewage disposal system in compliance with this chapter must be utilized.
   (C)   Should an on-site sewage disposal system fail, the failure shall be
corrected by the owner or occupant of the property served by such system within
the time limit set by the Health Officer.
   (D)   Whenever a sanitary sewerage system becomes available and is within
300 feet of the property line of developed property in the county that contains
a residence, duplex, multiple-family unit, or business building served by an
on-site sewage system, chemical toilet, composting toilet, incinerating toilet,
privy, or any other toilet not connected to plumbing fixtures, a direct
connection of the building sewer shall be made to said sanitary sewer and any
septic tanks, seepage pits, outhouses, privy pits and similar sewage disposal
and treatment facilities shall be abandoned and filled in a safe and sanitary
manner. The direct connection to a sanitary sewerage system shall be made
within 180 days of issuance of orders of connection unless written notice is
provided by the sanitary sewerage system operating agency denying connection to
the system or the cost of connection is greater than one and one-half times the
cost of the total installation of the on-site sewage disposal system.
   (E)   Whenever a new residence, duplex, multiple-family unit, or business
building is to be constructed in an area where a sanitary sewerage system is
available as provided in the above paragraph, the landowner shall cause a
connection to be made to the sanitary sewer prior to construction of any such
project unless written notice is provided by the sanitary sewerage system
operating agency denying connection to the system or the cost of connection is
greater than one and one-half times the cost of the total installation of the
on-site sewage disposal system.
   (F)   All primary septic tanks in an on-site sewage system design shall be a
minimum size of 1,000 gallons below the water line. All additional tanks in an
on-site sewage system design must be, at minimum, equal size to the primary
septic tank.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 MINIMUM BUILDING SITE SIZE.
   (A)   SET-ASIDE means an area that has been deemed suitable through soil
testing for replacement of an on-site sewage system on the same site (according
to 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq.) if the original on-site sewage system fails or
becomes inadequate due to modifications to the dwelling.
   (B)   A proposed new building site shall have room for the approved septic
absorption field and should have room for a set-aside.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 PERMIT PROCESS.
   (A)   Application. Before the commencement of construction, alteration or
repair of an on-site sewage system ("system install"), the owner shall apply in
writing to the County Health Department for a permit ("permit") to construct,
alter or repair an on-site sewage system. The application shall consist of an:
      (1)   Application form;
      (2)   A fee that conforms to the fee schedule ordinance approved by the
Commissioners;
      (3)   A soil analysis report conducted by an IRSS recognized soil
scientist;
      (4)   A system drawing, and if new construction, drawing must include the
location of the set aside should a set aside be included;
      (5)   A list of on-site sewage system components; and
      (6)   Any other information required by the Health Officer or applicable
law.
   (B)   Holding tank.
      (1)   A holding tank under this section may only be installed to repair
or replace a sewage disposal system that fails to meet public health and
environmental standards.
      (2)   A holding tank under this section may only be installed under
certification of the County Health Department that the system is capable of
operating properly; the system does not discharge effluent that violates water
quality standards; an acceptable septic tank soil absorption system cannot be
located on the property served by the system because of soil characteristics,
size or topographical conditions of the property; the system was properly
installed by a qualified installer; and provides the best available technology
for residential on-site sewage disposal systems; and the County Health
Department has investigated all technologies available for repair of the sewage
disposal system that fails to meet public health and environmental standards
without causing unreasonable economic hardship to the system owner; and the
system for which the permit is issued cannot be connected to a sanitary sewer
because there is not a local, municipal, or regional sanitary sewer connection
available; the sanitary sewer operator refuses connection; or unreasonable
economic hardship would result to the system owner because of the connection
requirements of the sanitary sewer operator or the distance to the sanitary
sewer.
      (3)   Septage that originates from a residential or commercial source may
be held in one or more holding tanks until it is removed and transported from
the site of the holding tanks by a licensed septage management vehicle. A
holding tank to which this section applies may not have a capacity of more than
10,000 gallons.
      (4)   A holding tank used under this section must be designed and
equipped so that septage can be cleanly and efficiently pumped from the tank
into a licensed septage management vehicle to be transported from the site of
the tank; and equipped with a device that will produce an audio and visual
alarm when the septage in the tank reaches two-thirds of the tank's capacity.
      (5)   A holding tank described in this section may not be used to hold
septage unless the tank owner has obtained a permit from the County Health
Department. To obtain a permit, the owner must enter into a written contract
with an operator of licensed septage management vehicles providing for the
removal of septage from the holding tank at regular intervals. The owner must
provide a copy of the contract to the County Health Department. The owner must
commit to providing the County Health Department copies of receipts or other
records proving that the holding tank owner is regularly paying the licensed
septage management vehicle operator a fee for the removal of septage from the
holding tank.
      (6)   The County Health Department will issue an operating permit for a
temporary holding tank to a property owner only under certain circumstances on
a case-by-case basis. An operating permit issued for a temporary holding tank
will be for a period of one year from the date of issuance and will only be
eligible for renewal two additional times for a total of three holding tank
operating permits per site. The operating permit for a temporary holding tank
will only be issued when all on-site septic system application requirements
have been met. The operating permit for a temporary holding tank will be issued
to a property owner with the understanding that the County Health Department
may conduct inspections of the holding tank at any time within the duration of
the permit and subsequent renewals. The property owner of the temporary holding
tank is subject to all other requirements within this section of the ordinance
and any other applicable sections as they pertain to the permit process and
installation of an on-site sewage system.
      (7)   In accordance with Indiana Code, the County Health Department shall
report to the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) concerning
the holding tanks. The IDEM will provide the process for reporting of holding
tanks to the County Health Department and may require information regarding the
property owner be transferred to the IDEM in regard to the reporting process.
Should this information need to be transferred, the property owner, by
receiving the holding tank operating permit, agrees to the transfer of said
information to the IDEM from the County Health Department.
      (8)   A permit issued to the owner of a holding tank may be suspended or
revoked, or renewal of the permit may be denied for a violation of this
section; a condition stated in the permit; a requirement established under
division (B)(6); or a problem involving the holding tank or the operation of
the holding tank that creates a risk of harm to human health or the
environment.
   (C)   Permit fees.
      (1)   A fee is required and such amount shall conform to the fee schedule
ordinance approved by the Commissioners.
      (2)   A 501(c)(3) organization may be exempted from paying a permit fee
at the discretion of the Health Officer.
      (3)   Any fee required under this section shall be paid prior to permit
issuance.
      (4)   A receipt for the payment of such fees shall be provided by the
County Health Department and all funds received from the permit fees shall be
transferred to the health fund of the county.
      (5)   The payment of fees under this chapter is not transferable or
refundable.
   (D)   Permit issuance.
      (1)   A permit, whether issued prior to or after the adoption of this
chapter, shall lapse and be void if work has not been started within two years
after permit issuance. A soil survey more than two years old must be reviewed
by the County Health Department to determine if additional soil analysis and
information is required.
      (2)   Because of the hazards regarding potential ground water
contamination of wells through the development of subdivisions, planned
developments, parcels and other divisions of land for development and unless a
public water supply is provided, the Health Officer may, at the Health
Officer's discretion, decline to issue a permit if the on-site sewage system
may cause or contribute to a health hazard or an unsanitary condition.
      (3)   Unless a public water supply is provided, the factors to be
considered by the Health Officer in making a determination on a permit include,
but are not limited to:
         (a)   The requirements of 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq.;
         (b)   Soil and geological conditions;
         (c)   The depth of the water table and the quantity of water
available;
         (d)   Evidence of any contaminants existing in the water supply; and
         (e)   The number of existing or anticipated on-site sewage systems
located within the general area in which the proposed on-site sewage system is
to be built.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.09 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Installer certification.
      (1)   No person shall perform any system install until the person is
certified by the County Health Department as an acceptable installer for the
type of system to be installed ("certified installer").
      (2)   In order to become a certified installer, an individual must meet
divisions (A)(2)(a) through (c) below (such requirements collectively,
"certification"):
         (a)   Demonstrate knowledge of applicable law and other applicable
rules and regulations by passing a proficiency examination conducted by the
County Health Department ("exam") or provide documentation verifying
certification through Indiana On-Site Wastewater Professionals Associations
(IOWPA) or be certified through the system manufacturer's training and
certification program.
         (b)   Present proof of liability insurance issued by a company
registered in Indiana showing coverage for the entire term of the
certification. The liability policy shall be sufficient to indemnify persons
for whom faulty work may be performed or a minimum of $100,000.
         (c)   Pay an initial fee that conforms to the fee schedule ordinance
approved by the Commissioners.
      (3)   Any certification issued hereunder shall be valid for a term of one
year beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the same year and shall be
renewed annually. A certification shall bear the name and address of the
certified installer and the expiration date and shall not be transferable. Any
certification that is not renewed within 60 days of the expiration date shall
be considered void and the expired installer must again pass the exam or
provide active IOWPA documentation or be certified through the system
manufacturer's training and certification program.
      (4)   A certified installer shall maintain in his or her possession a
copy of his or her certification at all times when installing systems.
      (5)   A certified installer shall be on the site at all times during
construction, and shall be deemed responsible for the installation. A certified
installer may supervise other construction workers as necessary to assist in
the installation.
      (6)   Prior to any such installation, a property owner wishing to perform
a system install that would serve his or her own dwelling shall pass the exam
or provide IOWPA documentation or be certified through the system
manufacturer's training and certification program.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   A fee shall be submitted prior to issuance of certification. A fee
shall also be assessed for annual renewal of certification and shall also be
submitted prior to issuance of the renewed certification. Any fees hereunder
shall conform to the fee schedule ordinance approved by the Commissioners.
      (2)   A property owner as described in division (A)(6) shall be exempt
from the certification fee.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any person found to be in violation of any provision of this
chapter or applicable law shall receive notice of the violation from the Health
Department or its designee.
      (2)   If the violation is not corrected within the designated time, the
Health Officer may suspend or revoke the certification. If the certification is
inactive, the Health Officer, upon correction of all applicable violations, may
reinstate the certification. If the certification is revoked, the requirements
of division (A)(2) herein must be met prior to recertification. Recertification
shall not occur until all outstanding violations are corrected in accordance
with applicable law.
      (3)   Any person performing system installs without certification shall
be deemed to be in violation of the chapter. Such violation shall be fined for
the first offense not more than $500; for the second and each subsequent
offense not more than $1,000 per offense.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Board, or its designee, shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and
testing necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter and to verify no on-
site sewage system has failed.
   (B)   When deemed necessary, inspections by the Health Officer or his or her
agent may be conducted before permit issuance or construction.
   (C)   No construction of the on-site sewage system may take place if the on-
site sewage system site is disturbed or altered after the on-site soil analysis
by the addition of fill material (other than construction necessary for the on-
site sewage system itself) or by cutting, scraping, compaction or the removal
of soil, until a new soil analysis has been conducted and a modified permit has
been issued. Each septic site must be protected from construction traffic by
being roped or otherwise cordoned off. The site owner or his or her agent is
responsible for designing an on-site sewage system as part of the application
process which addresses the demands of the site in accordance with applicable
law and this chapter.
   (D)   The County Health Department is to be given 48 hours notice prior to
the covering of any part of the on-site sewage system in order to be able to
conduct a final inspection of the system.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 52.11 PETITION FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   The Board shall hear appeals incidental to the issuance and revocation
of permits and/or certifications if, within 15 days following the date of
receipt of a permit and/or certification, permit and/or certification
modification, notice of permit and/or certification denial or notice of permit
and/or certification revocation, and person aggrieved by such action files a
petition for review concerning such action with the Board.
   (B)   A petition for review shall state:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number (if applicable) of the
person making the request.
      (2)   Identify the interests of the petitioner which is affected by the
permit and/or certification issuance, denial, modification or revocation.
      (3)   Identify the persons whom the petitioner represents.
      (4)   State with particularity the issues proposed to be considered.
      (5)   Include proposed terms or conditions which, in the judgment of the
petitioner, would be appropriate to carry out the requirements of law and 410
I.A.C. 6-10.1 et seq. or 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq. governing such permits and/or
certifications.
   (C)   The procedures established in I.C. 4-21-5, the Administrative
Procedure and Orders Act, shall apply to the conduct of the hearing.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 52.12 REMEDIES.
   The Health Officer may, in the name of the Commissioners, bring actions in
the courts of the county for mandatory and injunctive relief for the
enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the
Health Officer or to otherwise provide for the enforcement of this chapter. Any
such action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to
recover the penalties, costs and expenses provided in this chapter. In the
event any legal action is necessary to enforce this chapter, the Health Officer
may seek recovery of costs and expenses reasonably incurred to enforce the
provisions of this chapter including, but not limited to reasonable attorney's
fees.
(Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023)
§ 52.99 PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the Board or the duly appointed Health Officer with a written
order stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit, for correction of any violations of this chapter. The written order
shall be served either by regular mail, electronic mail, certified mail or
personal service by the Health Officer of the county or his or her designee.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation of this chapter beyond the
time limit provided for correction of any violations of this chapter or who
shall fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined or who shall fail, neglect or
refuse to obey any lawful order given by the Health Officer shall be punished
for the first offense by a fine of $1,000 for the first day, and $500 for each
day the violation continues. Each day a violation of this chapter continues
shall constitute a separate offense for which a separate fine may be levied.
Application of this chapter or any part of this chapter is intended to be
consistent with applicable law and specifically 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq. and
410 I.A.C. 6-10.1 et seq. and any inconsistency in the direct application of
this chapter with said regulations shall be resolved in favor of enforceability
of applicable law and 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 et seq. and 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1 et seq. 
   (C)   There shall be a fine of $500 imposed upon any person or entity that
fails to obtain a permit prior to a system install. This fine shall also apply
to installers and developers as well as the property owner who fails to ensure
that a permit is obtained prior to a system install or construction of any
buildings or structures on the affected property.
   (D)   Any ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter
are hereby repealed, and this chapter shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon its adoption and its publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 5-13-2013; Ord. 2023-3, passed 7-25-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLE/BUGGY REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Overweight/over-width vehicles
   
70.02   Off-road vehicles
   
70.03   School bus routes; filing required
   
70.04   Vehicles with escaping contents; operation
   
70.05   Regulating no through truck traffic
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 OVERWEIGHT/OVER-WIDTH VEHICLES.
   (A)   The County Highway Supervisor is hereby empowered to issue permits for
the use of county roads by overweight vehicles.
   (B)   These overweight vehicles shall be excessive loads not corresponding
to I.C. 9-20-1 et seq.
   (C)   The permit shall be issued at the discretion of the Highway
Supervisor. That other traffic, bridge or highway will not be seriously
damaged.
   (D)   The permit shall be issued for a single trip or for a definite period
of time not exceeding 30 days.
   (E)   Before any permit shall be issued, the applicant shall satisfy the
officer issuing the permit of his or her responsibility to respond to damages
for any injury to the highway or bridge or furnish satisfactory bond or any
other security to the satisfaction of the issuing officer.
   (F)   There shall be a permit fee of $.25 per mile of travel loaded or
unloaded for all permits issued but in no case shall the fee be less than $10
nor more than $50.
   (G)   When any permit is issued by an issuing officer, it shall be submitted
to the County Auditor for approval, and thereupon, the Auditor shall fix the
fee to be paid and upon the payment of the fee, the Auditor shall validate the
permit, and the fee shall be credited to the County Highway Department account.
   (H)   Every permit shall be carried in or on the vehicle or any other object
to which it refers and shall be open to inspection by any peace officer.
   (I)   The person to whom the permit is issued shall not violate any terms or
conditions of a special permit.
   (J)   The issuance of the special permit provided in this section shall not
relieve the responsibility for damages to highways.
   (K)   Furthermore, no person shall move a load or vehicle no more than ten
feet in width without having a vehicle in front and behind of the over-width
vehicle with lights flashing, and the over-width vehicle shall not travel more
than 20 mph.
(Ord. 1981-3, passed 1-1-1982) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Off-road vehicles, as defined in I.C. 14-16-1 may use county roads in
the county, outside the corporate limits of any city or town.
   (B)   No person shall operate a “off-road vehicle”, as defined in this
section, without a valid motor vehicle driver’s license.
   (C)   No use otherwise prohibited by state law shall be permitted on the
county roads.
   (D)   The County Highway Supervisor shall be permitted to post certain roads
for non-use of the “off-road vehicles” by posting signs on the roads.
   (E)   All operators shall be subject to all other county traffic ordinances
in addition to the rules of the road as set out in I.C. Title 9 and I.C. Title
14.
(Ord. 3-7, passed 3-7-1983) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SCHOOL BUS ROUTES; FILING REQUIRED.
   (A)   It has come to the attention of the Board of Commissioners and the
County Highway Department that the three public school systems operating public
school busing in the confines of the county have not, and have failed to honor
requests to file with the County Highway Department at the beginning of each
school year a bus route map outlining the county roads being used by the school
system. The county is desirous of having the information filed with its Highway
Department for the purpose of maintaining roads upon which the buses traverse.
It has furthermore come to the attention of the county that certain bus routes
may include buses crossing over county bridges which are not posted for the
weight limit the buses carry over the bridges and/or a special need on the part
of the county to particularly maintain bridges over which school buses cross
due to their weight and the potential dangers as a result of a lack of proper
maintenance and repair.
   (B)   It shall hereafter be resolved by the County Board of Commissioners
that on or before September 1 of each and every year, starting retroactively in
1987, that the three public school systems operating school public busing,
North Daviess School System, Barr-Reeve School System and Washington Community
School System, provide to the County Highway Department a copy of the bus
routes followed by the respective school system.
   (C)   In the event the bus routes shall change during the school year, the
school system shall additionally be required, to notify the Highway Department
of the route change and to otherwise keep current the bus routes throughout the
school year.
(Ord. 87-2, passed 11-2-1987) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 VEHICLES WITH ESCAPING CONTENTS; OPERATION.
   (A)   A vehicle may not be driven or moved on any public roadway in the
confines of the county if the vehicle’s contents are dripping, shifting,
leaking or otherwise escaping from the vehicle upon any public road, road
right-of-way or any adjacent property.
   (B)   Exempted from division (A) above shall be any vehicle containing
poultry or livestock being transported to the market or to any highway
maintenance vehicle engaged in the spreading of sand or de-icing chemicals.
   (C)   The owner and/or operator who, as a result of being in violation of
division (A) above causes damage to any property belonging to another shall be
responsible for making full and complete restitution for any damage.
(Ord. 93-3, passed 6-28-1993) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 REGULATING NO THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following are defined to wit:
      THROUGH TRAFFIC. Traveling county roads without commercial reason to
stop.
      TRUCK. A commercial vehicle having more than two axles.
   (B)   Through truck traffic is prohibited on the following county roads: CR
550E between CR 1400N and CR 1500N.
(Ord. 2016-5, passed 7-26-2016) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Failure to obtain the permit described above, when necessary, or
failure to abide by any terms and conditions of the permit, or has failed to
provide for the flashing vehicles for over-width loads, (as provided in §
70.01) shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000.
   (C)   Anyone who violates §
70.02 by driving on a road so marked “prohibited to off-road vehicular traffic”
or who drives in violation of other county ordinances for rules of the road,
shall be fined in any amount not to exceed $500.
   (D)   In the event any school system fails, refuses or neglects to file its
bus routes with the County Highway Department, the school system shall be
deemed to be in violation of §
70.03, which shall be deemed a Class C infraction, and shall be subject to a
fine not exceeding $500. If there is some circumstance that prevents the school
system from filing the bus route with the County Highway Department on or
before the aforementioned date, then the school system shall notify the County
Highway Department prior thereto, give the reason therefor, and the anticipated
date the school corporation will be in compliance thereof subject to the same
fine heretofore set forth. In the event any school system is not in compliance
with the provisions of §
70.03, the County Highway Superintendent shall notify the County Attorney, who
shall be charged with the enforcement of §
70.03, through appropriate legal proceedings, or in some other manner as the
County Commissioners shall dictate.
   (E)   Any owner and/or operator who is found to be in violation of the
provisions of §
70.04 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 or more than $1,000.
Each load carried by a vehicle in violation of the provisions of §
70.04 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   Any person who intentionally and knowingly violates the provisions of
§
70.05 shall be fined in the amount not to exceed $100. Each violation of the
provisions of §
70.05 shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1981-3, passed 1-1-1982; Ord. 3-7, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 87-2, passed 11-
2-1987; Ord. 93-3, passed 6-28-1993; Ord. 2016-5, passed 7-26-2016)
CHAPTER 71: HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLE/BUGGY REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Horse-drawn/unmotorized vehicles without blinking lights
   
71.02   Horse-drawn vehicle buggy permits
Horseshoes Permissible for Use on Hard-Surfaced Roads
   
71.15   Short title
   
71.16   Definitions
   
71.17   Findings; creation
   
71.18   Prohibition
   
71.19   Enforcement
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 HORSE-DRAWN/UNMOTORIZED VEHICLES WITHOUT BLINKING LIGHTS.
   (A)   A horse-drawn vehicle may not be operated on any public roadway in the
confines of the county if the vehicle fails to have blinking rights as
hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Each horse-drawn vehicle shall have two flashing red lights, which
shall be at least one and one-quarter inches by two and one-quarter inches in
diameter, and shall be affixed to the rear of each horse-drawn vehicle. The
lights shall be mounted at least 20 inches above ground level and on the
outside corners of the rear of the horse-drawn vehicle.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 71.02 HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLE BUGGY PERMITS.
   (A)   The county needs to keep an accurate account of the number of horse-
drawn vehicles or buggies that transverse its public roadways for purposes of
safety, traffic flow information and fiscal planning due to the additional wear
they cause upon the public roadway system for which there is no compensation by
the state as part of the disbursement of highway funds by the state to the
county.
   (B)   It is hereby established that the County Auditor's Office shall issue
a permit/plate (or a permit "sticker" system) which shall be affixed to each
horse-drawn vehicle or buggy owned by any resident of the county or operated by
any individual on any roadway of the county, which plate shall be permanently
affixed and nontransferable on the back of the horse-drawn buggy. The permit/
plate shall enable the county to keep an accurate account of the number of
horse-drawn vehicles being operated on the public roadway systems and shall
also assist in the identification of the owner or operators of the horse-drawn
vehicles in the event of accidents.
   (C)   (1)   In order to more equitably cover the associated costs for
buggies, pony carts, and buggy permits, the County Auditor's Office shall
collect the sum of $175 for each buggy permit sold and $125 for each "pony
cart" permit sold, and the permit/plate shall be issued on an annual basis on
or before May 10 of each year, which shall permit each horse-drawn vehicle or
buggy to be owned and operated in the county for a period of one year, not
exceeding up to and through May 9 of the year following the year of issuance.
      (2)   In the event that a buggy permit/plate is lost, destroyed or
otherwise needs to be replaced, the requesting individual shall sign an
affirmation statement and pay any applicable fees prior to the issuance of a
replacement permit. Such statement can be obtained from the Daviess County
Auditor’s Office. In order to cover the administrative cost associated with the
accounting and issuance of a replacement permit/plate, the Daviess County
Auditor’s Office shall collect the sum of $10.
   (D)   The sale of the permits/plates shall be handled by the County
Auditor’s Office and the County Highway Department at various locations
authorized by the Auditor’s Office and the Highway Department.
   (E)   The County Auditor’s Office and the County Highway Department shall
collect the monies which have been paid at the various authorized locations in
a timely fashion. The Auditor’s Office and the Highway Department are ordered
and directed to ensure that the personnel at each location shall have
sufficient State Board of Accounts approved receipt forms and provide any
instructions and/or information regarding the collecting of the fees for the
horse-drawn vehicle or buggy permits and issuing receipts thereof.
   (F)   Any and all funds collected by the County Auditor’s Office and County
Highway Department as a result of the issuance of the permit/plate shall be
placed in the Motor Vehicle/Highway Funds of the county, and be used in a
manner so as the County Commissioners shall approve and/or as the funds may be
appropriated by the County Council. The Auditor is ordered and directed to keep
a specific accounting of the funds in a manner acceptable to and as regulated
by the Department of Local Government Finance and the State Board of Accounts.
   (G)   The County Auditor’s Office and the County Highway Department are
further ordered and directed to ensure that any individual collecting the
monies shall have an appropriate bond as required by the State Board of
Accounts for any individual handling of public monies.
   (H)   A horse-drawn vehicle shall not be operated on any public roadway in
the confines of the county if the vehicle fails to have a permit/plate as set
forth herein.
   (I)   The County Sheriff’s Department is hereby ordered and directed to
enforce the dictates of this statute, and ensure that each buggy using the
roadways of the county and/or owned by any resident of the county has a plate
affixed thereto in a prominent and easily located position.
(Ord. 2008-6, passed 8-25-2008; Ord. 2012-2, passed 4-23-2012; Ord. 2020-1,
passed 1-14-2020; Ord. 2022-7, passed 12-27-2022; Ord. 2024-1, passed 12-23-
2024)
HORSESHOES PERMISSIBLE FOR USE ON HARD-SURFACED ROADS
§ 71.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as “The Horseshoe Ordinance”.
(Ord. 93-7, passed 11-8-1993)
§ 71.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLE. A buggy, carriage, dray, wagon and the like, designed
primarily for the transportation of human beings, and intended to use one or
more horses as motive power. This term shall also be used to include horse-
drawn agricultural implements, which are wagons, machinery and the like,
designed primarily for the transportation or processing of agricultural
products.
   OPERATOR. The individual who is present and upon the horse or within the
horse-drawn vehicle at the time a violation is observed.
   OWNER. Any individual, partnership, corporation or association that rents,
leases, owns or has exclusive use of a horse-drawn vehicle for a period of at
least 30 days in any calendar year.
(Ord. 93-7, passed 11-8-1993)
§ 71.17 FINDINGS; CREATION.
   (A)   The County Commissioners have determined that an emergency exists and
that the highways and thoroughfares, primarily those composed of asphalt, are
being destroyed by the current horseshoes being utilized by operators and
owners of horse-drawn vehicles upon the roadways.
   (B)   As a result of the emergency and the authority granted to the County
Commissioners pursuant to state law and, more specifically, the powers granted
by I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq., and the Home Rule provisions of the Indiana Code.
   (C)   The County Commissioners, after careful deliberation, discussion and
meetings with the County Highway Department and discussions with leaders of the
community heavily involved with horse-drawn vehicles, do hereby create and pass
this subchapter to be known as the county “Horseshoe Ordinance”.
(Ord. 93-7, passed 11-8-1993)
§ 71.18 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   From May 1 until the following October 1, it shall be unlawful for any
person to be an operator of or to cause any horse or horse-drawn vehicle to be
operated on any asphalt, concrete or other hard-surfaced road or highway of the
county, which has been fitted with horseshoes upon which has been applied a
sharp edged, compounded or mounded material.
   (B)   Further provided, it will be permissible to use a horse which has been
fitted with plain shoes made of steel to which have been added a material no
harder than horseshoe borium.
      (1)   The borium may be mounded, smoothly, in three mound style, no
higher than three-sixteenth-inch with no more than one mound on the toe and a
single mound on each heel of the horseshoe.
      (2)   All mounds will cover the flat area of the toe of the shoe to each
nail crease, and from the taper to the nail crease on each heel.
      (3)   The mounds must be smooth and without sharp edges, and must be
applied to plain, non-toed, non-heeled shoes.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any horseshoe to contain a material harder
than borium or applied in any method not provided herein between May 1 and the
following October 1.
   (C)   Further provided, it will be permissible from October 1 to the
following May 1 to substitute fine drilltec for borium in the same application
techniques, conditions and specifications as were aforementioned for the
application of horseshoe borium. Horseshoes with styles of lumped, compounded,
sharp-edged or mounded materials shall be unlawful, other than as provided
herein.
(Ord. 93-7, passed 11-8-1993) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the County Sheriff’s Department to enforce
this subchapter.
   (B)   Any duly qualified and acting law enforcement officer may enforce the
terms of this subchapter.
   (C)   Procedures for arrest and court appearances shall be in accordance
with I.C. 9-21-1-1 et seq., as amended.
   (D)   Procedures for ordinance violation enforcement shall be in accordance
with I.C. 34-28-5, as amended.
(Ord. 93-7, passed 11-8-1993)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any owner and/or operator who is found to be in contravention of §
71.01 shall be deemed to have committed a Class C infraction, and may be fined
in a sum of up to and including, but not exceeding $500, and the County
Attorney is hereby ordered and directed to initiate appropriate legal action
against any person found to be in contravention of §
71.01, upon being presented a complaint and summons by the County Sheriff’s
Department to be pursued as a civil matter in a court of competent jurisdiction
in the county.
   (C)   Any owner and/or operator who is found to be in contravention of §
71.02 shall be deemed to have committed a Class C infraction, and may be fined
in a sum of up to and including, but not exceeding $500, and the County
Attorney is hereby ordered and directed to initiate appropriate legal action
against any person found to be in contravention of §
71.02, upon being presented a complaint and summons by the County Sheriff’s
Department, to be pursued as a civil matter in a court of competent
jurisdiction in the county.
   (D)   Any violation of any provision of §§
71.15 through
71.19 shall be a Class B infraction for the first violation, and a Class A
infraction for each and every violation thereafter. Each and every infringement
of any provision of §§
71.15 through
71.19 shall constitute a separate and distinct violation. If any owner or
operator of any horse-drawn vehicle refuses to lift the horse’s hoof for a shoe
inspection or refuses to take the horse to another place for inspection shall
be considered in violation of the terms of §§
71.15 through
71.19, and subject to the same penalties.
(Ord. 93-7, passed 11-8-1993; Ord. 2005-1, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 2008-6,
passed 8-25-2008)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
72.01   Adoption by reference
§ 72.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The traffic schedules of the county are hereby adopted by reference, and
incorporated as fully into this code as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 8-25-1958; Ord. passed 3-16-1959; Ord. 92-3, passed 3-23-1992;
Ord. 95-2, passed 4-10-1995; Ord. 2004-4, passed 5-24-2004; Ord. 2010-1, passed
2-8-2010; Ord. 2010-3, passed 9-13-2010; Ord. 2015-7, passed 11-9-2015)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
90.01   Park Board provisions
§ 90.01 PARK BOARD PROVISIONS.
   The agreement of the County Park Board and the Martin County Park Board, by
the President and Secretary of the respective park boards, as of the date of
March 8, 1966, for the creation of a Joint Park Board, for the express purpose
of the creation of park and recreation facilities on the West Boggs Creek
Watershed, as authorized by the statutes, and pursuant to these conditions and
agreements.
   (A)   The Joint Park and Recreation Board shall be composed of all the
membership of the Park and Recreation Boards of the respective districts.
   (B)   The Joint Park and Recreation Board shall appoint an Executive
Committee, composed of equal number of members from the membership of each
participating Park and Recreation Board, which Executive Committee shall be
empowered to exercise all the authority of the Joint Park and Recreation Board,
except that any Executive Committee member may require an issue to be submitted
to the Joint Park and Recreation Board for final action thereon.
   (C)   The Joint Park and Recreation Board shall determine its total budget
request, which total budget shall be presented to the County Council in each of
the respective counties, provided however, that each county shall bear but 50%
of the total budget.
   (D)   The Joint Park and Recreation Board shall elect a President and
Secretary from its membership, who shall serve in those offices for a term of
one year. The officers shall be elected annually at a Joint Park and Recreation
Board meeting to be held in December of each year, and the officers shall take
office on the first Monday of the following year.
   (E)   Monies appropriated by the participating political subdivisions shall
be deposited in a Joint Park and Recreation Board Fund in the custody of the
fiscal officer of each of the respective participating political subdivisions.
Monies may be withdrawn from the respective fund in either political
subdivision only upon vouchers signed by the President and Secretary of the
Joint Park and Recreation Board.
   (F)   The Joint Park and Recreation Board shall be empowered with all the
powers granted to those boards by statute, including, but not limited to, those
powers specified in the Acts 1955, Ch, 311, § 216; Acts 1963, Ch. 171, § 1 and
Acts 1965, Ch. 404, § 6, and all further enactments of the General Assembly of
the state, relative to Joint Park and Recreation Boards.
   (G)   The creation of the Joint Park and Recreation Board for the promotion,
operation and maintenance of park and recreational facilities on West Boggs
Creek Watershed shall in no way affect the continued function and operation of
the Park and Recreation Boards of the respective counties as now exist, for the
development of other park and recreational facilities in the respective
counties.
(Council Ord. passed 5-20-1966)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Dust control on county roads prohibited
Surface Mining; Closing of Certain Roads to Coal Traffic
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Application
   
91.17   Effective date
   
91.18   Permits
   
91.19   Coal trucks
   
91.20   Mining equipment
   
91.21   Coal haul routes
   
91.22   To mine through a county road
   
91.23   To construct an equipment crossing
   
91.24   Expense of traffic control
   
91.25   Reestablishment of property lines and survey markers
   
91.26   Revocation of permit; notice; hearing
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DUST CONTROL ON COUNTY ROADS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the "Ordinance Prohibiting Dust Control
on County Roads".
   (B)   For the purpose of promoting the public safety, health, welfare,
convenience and enjoyment of public travel and to protect the public investment
in public highways, it is hereby declared to be in the public's interest to
regulate and restrict the application of any type of dust control on a county
road by anyone other than the County Highway Department or contracted with the
County Highway Department.
   (C)   No person may apply or pay for the application of any substance to a
county road for the purposes of dust prevention or for any other purpose,
except for payments made to the County Highway Department. This section shall
not apply to persons or organizations that contract with the County Highway
Department to apply dust control.
(Ord. 2009-5, passed 9-28-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
SURFACE MINING; CLOSING OF CERTAIN ROADS TO COAL TRAFFIC
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COAL HAUL ROUTE. The specific roads, designated by the Commissioners, that
trucks may use in transporting coal.
   EQUIPMENT CROSSING. The specific roads, designated by the Commissioners,
that may be crossed with mining equipment.
   HIGHWAY. Any roadway heretofore designated a part of the county highway
system, and shall include the entire right-of-way of the highway.
   MINE THROUGH. The specific roads, designated by the Commissioners, that may
be closed, removed, the coal mined and the road restored.
   MINERAL. Coal, clay, shale or coal by-products such as bottom ash, fly ash
and the like.
   OPERATOR. A person engaged in carrying on surface mining operations.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, partnership, corporation, firm or
association.
   PIT. A tract of land from which the overburden has been removed or is being
removed, and where minerals are being produced in the raw state.
   RUN AROUND.  A temporary road constructed by the coal company to bypass a
"mine through".
   SURFACE MINING. All or any part of the process followed in the production of
minerals by uncovering therefrom the overburden above the mineral deposits, or
the removing of overburden for the purpose of determining the location, quality
or quantity of a mineral deposit.
   TRUCK. Any self-propelled motor vehicle with a gross weight of 20,000 pounds
or over, that is used to transport coal.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 91.16 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to all highways in the county highway system
under the jurisdiction of the County Board of Commissioners, except highways in
the state and federal highway system and state maintained routes through cities
and towns.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 91.17 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective upon promulgation.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 91.18 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate coal hauling vehicle or
coal mining equipment on a county highway in the county, without having first
obtained a permit to operate the vehicle or equipment from the County Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   Before a permit is issued, each applicant must first submit sufficient
data concerning the operator, location of the pit and proposed routes of travel
from the pit to the nearest state highway.
   (C)   At the time the permit is used, the Board of Commissioners shall
designate the county highways that may be used to haul minerals into and out of
the surface mining operation and/or pit.
      (1)   The route shall be the designated coal haul route for the applicant
seeking the permit.
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners shall also designate the routes of
ingress and egress from the county highways across the county rights-of-way and
into the pit.
   (D)   A $10 permit fee must accompany each application.
   (E)   A separate permit shall be required for each surface mining operation
and/or pit operated by any person.
   (F)   Every person, prior to being issued a permit, shall be required to
show sufficient proof of financial ability to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (G)   Every person to whom a permit is issued shall be required to maintain
the coal haul route, as per County Highway Coal Mine Policy P-16. Maintenance
shall include, but is not limited to, surface quality, dust control, drainage
and ditching.
      (1)   If the coal haul route is used by more than one company, each
company shall maintain its portion of the route until it enters upon another
coal company's issued route.
      (2)   The companies may bill each other for the pro-rata share of
expenses, and upon failure of a company to pay within ten days after being
billed, they shall notify the county, and the county may start its revocation
of permit proceedings.
   (H)   Upon approval of any coal haul route, mine through or equipment
crossing, the coal company shall present a satisfactory surety bond in an
amount equal to the county's investment as determined by § 2 of the County
Highway Coal Mine Policy P-16. They shall also provide the county with an
escrow account in the form of cash certificates of deposit or an irrevocable
letter of credit in an amount equal to 10% of the surety bond. The amounts of
escrow shall be adjusted to reflect the number of coal companies using the
route.
   (I)   The coal companies shall also use the coal haul routes exclusively for
the delivery of all supplies when the gross weight of the vehicle is at or
exceeds 20,000 pounds.
   (J)   Failure of any person to comply with the above stated provisions shall
be grounds for revocation.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 COAL TRUCKS.
   Upon the effective date of this subchapter, all other roads that are part of
the county highway system, except for the designated coal haul routes, shall be
permanently closed to all trucks with a gross weight of 20,000 pounds or over
that are primarily used to haul coal.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 91.20 MINING EQUIPMENT.
   Upon the effective date of this subchapter, all roads in the county highway
system shall be closed to all mining equipment.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 91.21 COAL HAUL ROUTES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners, after receiving an application, shall
establish a coal haul route(s). The coal haul routes established by the Board
of Commissioners shall be the only routes in the county highway system that
coal trucks with a gross weight of 20,000 pounds or more may travel upon
without violating this subchapter.
   (B)   Each coal haul route so established shall have a maximum speed limit
of 45 mph in rural areas, and 35 mph in residential areas. The speed limit is
to be effective upon the installation of traffic signs so indicating the speed
limit. Any person violating the maximum speed limit for the coal haul routes
shall be liable for prosecution under the laws of the state and shall have the
same rights, duties and responsibilities as any other motorist on any other
highway of this county and state.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 91.22 TO MINE THROUGH A COUNTY ROAD.
   If a person applies for permission to mine through a county road, and
provided the Commissioners grant the request, the Commissioners will decide
whether or not a run around will be required. The section of road mined through
will require bond and escrow as in §
91.18(H) above. If a run around is required, it will be maintained as provided
for in the County Highway Coal Mine Policy P-16. When mining is completed, the
road will be replaced as per the County Highway Coal Mine Policy P-14. Each
mine through shall be reviewed on a six-month basis by the Commissioners.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 91.23 TO CONSTRUCT AN EQUIPMENT CROSSING.
   If a person applies for permission to construct an equipment crossing across
a county road, and provided the Commissioners grant the request, the coal
company will provide proof of liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000.
The section of road used as an "equipment crossing" shall be removed and the
road will be replaced as per the County Highway Coal Mine Policy P-14.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 91.24 EXPENSE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   All signs which must be erected and maintained to control speed limits,
traffic control or detours in connection with coal haul routes, mine through,
run arounds or equipment crossings, shall be at the expense of the coal
companies and shall conform to the state Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices (M.U.T.C.D.).
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 91.25 REESTABLISHMENT OF PROPERTY LINES AND SURVEY MARKERS.
   All survey markers or monuments which are disturbed by mining operations
shall be re-established in accordance with 310 I.A.C. 12-5-71.5 or I.C. 36-2-
12-13. In addition, any property lines or property corners which are disturbed
by mining operations and which affect the county highway right-of-way shall be
re-established at the expense of the coal company.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 91.26 REVOCATION OF PERMIT; NOTICE; HEARING.
   (A)   Any permit issued by the County Commissioners or ordinance may be
revoked for failure to live up to the terms of the ordinance and/or permit.
   (B)   Any permittee whom the County Commissioners find to be in violation of
the terms of the ordinance and/or permit shall be sent a written notice.
   (C)   The written notice shall contain a list of the alleged violations. The
notice shall also contain a date, time and place for a hearing to show cause
why the permit should not be revoked, and shall be signed by at least one
County Commissioner.
   (D)   The permittee shall have the right at the hearing to be represented by
counsel, cross-examine witnesses and to bring his or her own witnesses.
   (E)   The hearing may be continued from time to time, and any waiver of any
violation of that type, the County Commissioners, after the hearing, may
exculpate any permittee or may modify or revoke his or her permit.
   (F)   The permittee shall be given 14 days notice of the hearing. All
notices shall be delivered by the Sheriff's Department or certified mail with
return receipt.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who is found to be in contravention of §
91.01 shall be deemed to have committed a Class C infraction, and may be fined
in a sum of up to and including, but not exceeding, $500. The County Attorney
is hereby directed to initiate appropriate legal action against any person
found to be in contravention of §
91.01 upon being presented a complaint and summons by the County Sheriff's
Department, to be pursued as a civil matter in a court of competent
jurisdiction in the county.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.26 shall be deemed to have committed a Class A infraction, and upon a court
of competent jurisdiction finding the commission of an infraction, shall be
fined in a sum of not less than $100, nor more than $500. For the second or
subsequent violations of §§
91.15 through
91.26, upon a court of competent jurisdiction finding a commission of an
infraction, shall be fined in the sum of not less than $500, nor more than
$1,000.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 3-24-1997; Ord. 2009-5, passed 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 92: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Weed Control Board
   
92.01   Findings
   
92.02   Establishment
   
92.03   Members appointed
   
92.04   Specific offices
   
92.05   Powers and duties
   
92.06   Noxious weeds; notice
   
92.07   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Parks and recreation provisions, see
Chapter 90
   Streets, sidewalks and rights-of-way, see
Chapter 91
WEED CONTROL BOARD
§ 92.01 FINDINGS.
   It has come to the attention of the Board of Commissioners that certain
residents are interested in the establishment of a Weed Control Board, to be
established as hereinafter set forth, in accordance with the statutes of the
state, and the Board of County Commissioners does not find that there is a need
for the Weed Control Board, that it would be in the best interest of the
citizens of the county to establish same and appropriate necessary funds for
the purpose of the operation of the Weed Control Board at the pleasure of the
County Common Council.
(Ord. 84-1, passed 9-12-1984)
§ 92.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There be and there is hereby authorized to be and there is hereby authorized
pursuant to I.C. 15-16-7 the establishment of a County Weed Control Board.
(Ord. 84-1, passed 9-12-1984)
§ 92.03 MEMBERS APPOINTED.
   (A)   This Board shall consist of the following members appointed by the
County Commissioners as follows:
      (1)   One county township trustee;
      (2)   One Soil and Water Conservation District Supervisor;
      (3)   One representative from the agricultural community of the county;
      (4)   One representative from the County Highway Department, or other
appointee as the Board of Commissioners shall deem fit, advisable and desirous;
and
      (5)   One county cooperative extension service agent. This individual
shall serve in a non-voting advisory capacity.
   (B)   Each Board member as hereinabove referenced shall be appointed for a
term of four years from the date of appointment. Any vacancy which may occur
during the interim four-year period shall be filled for an unexpired term and
shall be appointed as hereinabove set forth.
(Ord. 84-1, passed 9-12-1984)
§ 92.04 SPECIFIC OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   The County Weed Control Board shall elect a Chairperson and a
Secretary to assist the Board in the conducting of business.
      (2)   The members thereof shall not be entitled to receive any
compensation other than traveling and other expenses as may be necessary to
discharge the duties of the Board upon approval of the Board, the submission of
the claims to the County Commissioners for their approval and recommendation
for payment and within the scope of the appropriated budget for the Board.
   (B)   The County Weed Control Board shall be empowered to appoint an
Executive Director and employ necessary technical, professional and other
assistance as it deems necessary and within the financial appropriations
available to the Board, and the Board shall fix the qualifications, duties and
salaries of these employees subject to the permission of the County Council.
   (C)   The County Weed Control Board shall designate the County Highway
Supervisor, if he or she be a Board member, and the Soil and Water Conservation
District Supervisor, or the designate of either, or any designated employee
serving the county, as inspectors, and the inspectors shall serve for the Board
and make periodic inspections and report their findings to the Board and/or
Executive Director, if any.
(Ord. 84-1, passed 9-12-1984)
§ 92.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Weed Control Board shall be as follows:
   (A)   Taking all necessary and proper steps to control and contain noxious
weeds, including, but not necessarily limited to: Canada thistle, Johnson grass
and Sorghum almum, and any other plants or weeds which the Board may
hereinafter designate, or which may be provided by subsequent state statute,
which the weeds must have an adverse significance on agricultural production in
the county as well as the state;
   (B)   Entering upon any land, public or private, at any reasonable time
after giving 48 hours notice to the person in possession of the land to inspect
for the noxious weeds, unless permission is otherwise granted to enter earlier;
   (C)   Purchasing of supplies, material and equipment within boundaries of
the budget provided for the Board by the County Council;
   (D)   Acquiring by gift or purchase, holding or disposing of any real
property in the name of the Board, to include such facilities as offices,
laboratories, operational buildings, rights-of-way and easements;
   (E)   Making contracts for the purpose of carrying out the duties of the
Board;
   (F)   Entering into cooperative agreements with appropriate organizations
for the purpose of assuring technical assistance in developing and carrying out
the purposes of the Board;
   (G)   Identifying problems determined to be of importance to the public
welfare and developing control programs appropriate to each situation;
   (H)   Undertaking investigations to determine the extent of infestation of
noxious weed species, along with their effect on agricultural production in the
county;
   (I)   Employing the latest technological advances to control and contain
noxious weeds in the county;
   (J)   Accepting gifts and grants of money, services or property for any use
consistent with the objectives of the Board;
   (K)   Exercising all other powers necessary to carry out the purposes of
this subchapter; and
   (L)   Establishing, if the Board so desires, a marijuana eradication
program, designed to eliminate and destroy wild marijuana plants found within
the county, if the county so determines by a vote of the County Board of
Commissioners, that the program shall be established in accordance with I.C.
15-16-7-8 and the provisions therein.
(Ord. 84-1, passed 9-12-1984)
§ 92.06 NOXIOUS WEEDS; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Weed Control Board shall require persons owning real estate
located in the county or persons or any other entity owning easements, rights-
of-way or similar interests in real estate located in the county, to control
and contain any noxious weeds growing on the real estate.
   (B)   A five-day written notice to remove any noxious weeds shall be issued
by the Weed Control Board and served by certified or registered mail addressed
to the latest address of the person or to his, her or its resident agent as the
addresses are reflected in the offices of the County Treasurer, the County
Auditor or the County Recorder's office.
   (C)   The Board may alternatively issue any notices by and through the
office of the County Sheriff, who is hereby ordered and directed to accommodate
the Board by serving any notices and for which the service the Board shall pay
the required and standard fee for the service.
(Ord. 84-1, passed 9-12-1984)
§ 92.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any individual, governmental entity or corporate entity failing to begin a
program recommended by the Weed Control Board to control and contain noxious
weeds as designated by the Board within the five days hereinabove referenced is
guilty of a Class C infraction, and the County Attorney is hereby authorized
and directed to enforce the provisions of this subchapter, together with the
provisions of I.C. Chapter 4.6 of Title 15, Chapter 3 regarding the
establishment, exercising and enforcement of Weed Control Board provisions.
(Ord. 84-1, passed 9-12-1984)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   Fire Protection District
§ 93.01 FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT.
   (A)   There has heretofore been presented appropriate petitions to establish
the Southeast Daviess Fire Protection District presented to the Board of
Commissioners by residents of Reeve Township, Harrison Township and the
residents of Alfordsville, all of which petitions are hereby with reference
incorporated herein, to-wit: the matter having now been under consideration the
Board of Commissioners does now find that it is in the best interest to
establish the Southeast Daviess Fire Protection District, which this section
shall effectuate pursuant to the appropriate statutes hereinafter set forth,
there having been heretofore held a public hearing on the petition pursuant to
I.C. 36-8-11-8, and the petitions appearing to be in compliance with the above-
referenced statute.
   (B)   This section shall serve the purpose of setting this matter for public
hearing pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-8(c) to determine whether it is in the best
public interest pursuant to the statute, and if so deemed, this section shall
be passed, but the effective date shall be withheld until January 1, 1991 for
budgetary purposes.
   (C)   This section is hereby further to appoint trustees pursuant to I.C.
36-8-11-12. Thereafter, the vacancy shall be filled in compliance with I.C. 36-
8-11-12.
   (D)   This section, whenever it shall be passed, shall not be effective
until January 1, 1991 for the purpose of effectuating fire protection for the
Townships of Reeve, Harrison and the Town of Alfordsville. However, this
section will immediately upon passage establish a political subdivision as that
entity is described in the state statutes, enabling the Southeast Daviess Fire
Protection District to submit an appropriate budget for the taxable year 1991
to the County Council for inclusion along with all other monetary matters
considered by the Council with effective taxing capabilities to start January
1, 1991, with the creation of a levee, all pursuant to I.C. 36-8-11-18 and in
compliance therewith.
(Ord. 90-1, passed 8-13-1990)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practices
   
94.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
94.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
94.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
94.10   Exemptions
   
94.11   Administrative enforcement
   
94.12   Adoption of state fair housing law
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the Daviess County Commissioners to provide,
within constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate
limits as provided for under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended,
the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C.
22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005; Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-22-2015)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in this section shall apply throughout this
chapter.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who (See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq. (See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-3).
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6 (See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-4).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§ 94.04
through 94.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined under FAMILIAL STATUS. See also, §
94.09.
   HANDICAP. 
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 and 910
I.A.C. 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely
because that individual is a transvestite 910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries (See also I.C. 22-9.5-2-11).
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant (See also
I.C. 22-9.5-2-13).
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005; Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-22-2015)
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
94.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
94.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24 month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C) of this chapter, but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein, or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005; Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-22-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
94.03 and except as exempted by §§
94.03(B) and
94.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (3)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination.
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that;
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as “ANSI A1 17.1”) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (A)(8)(c)3.c.
   (C)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005; Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-22-2015)
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term residential real estate-related
transaction means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005; Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-22-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Discrimination in real estate, see also I.C. 22-9.5-5-6 and 22-9.5-5-7.
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005; Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-22-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
94.03 through
94.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005; Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-22-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempts to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A); or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A), or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000 or
imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005; Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-22-2015) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. Part 5.403 and 24 C.F.R. Part 574.3 the definition of
FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-22-2915)
§ 94.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this section to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section:
      HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS. Housing:
         (a)   Provided under any state or Federal program that the Secretary
of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state civil
rights commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or Federal program) or;
         (b)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
         (c)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55
years of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005; Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-22-2015)
§ 94.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official of the
Commissioners of Daviess County, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the Commissioners
of Daviess County, Indiana, because of lack of financial and other resources
necessary to fully administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil
actions under the chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of
violation of the sections of this chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil
Rights Commission for administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-
9.5-6 and the Chief Elected Official of the Commissioners of Daviess County,
Indiana, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) of this section to said Commission for purposes of
investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-
9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of Daviess County, Indiana
shall administer their departments, programs and activities relating to housing
and urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission
to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the Commissioners of Daviess County,
Indiana, or the Chief Elected Official's designee, shall provide information on
remedies available to any aggrieved person or complainant requesting such
information.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005; Ord. 2015-4, passed 6-22-2015)
§ 94.12 ADOPTION OF STATE FAIR HOUSING LAW.
   In addition to the foregoing, the county hereby adopts the provisions of the
State Fair Housing Law as set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-1-1 through 22-9.5.-11-3.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
any or all of the penalties provided in the State Fair Housing Law.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   NONPERMANENT COMMERCIAL CONCERNS
      
111.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
112.   JUNKYARD CONTROL
      
113.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS/BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
      
114.   RESERVED
      
115.   TATTOO/BODY-PIERCING BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: NONPERMANENT COMMERCIAL CONCERNS
Section
   
110.01   Findings
   
110.02   Sales permit
   
110.03   Permit fees; issuance; requirements
   
110.04   Definitions and exemptions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 FINDINGS.
   It has been brought to the attention of the County Commissioners that
certain temporary and nonpermanent peddlers have been conducting commercial
endeavors and selling various goods, items, equipment and wares to the public
within the confines of the corporate boundaries of the county, while unburdened
by the cost of services rendered and provided by the county to its citizens or
sharing in the tax burden for the payment of those services. It has further
been brought to the attention of the County Commissioners that the transient
merchants at times perpetrate fraud, misrepresentation or false statements in
connection with the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and the county has an
interest to protect the public therefrom.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 3-9-1992)
§ 110.02 SALES PERMIT.
   (A)   There shall, therefore, hereinafter be established a sales permit to
be issued by the County Auditor, or his or her deputy, and it shall be the
obligation and the duty, as well as a condition precedent to conducting
business within the corporate boundaries of the county, that every like
nonpermanent business establishment purchase the sales permit.
   (B)   The term NONPERMANENT COMMERCIAL CONCERN, as used in this chapter,
shall mean any such commercial endeavor or any person, partnership or
corporation conducting themselves in a commercial endeavor, and which
conduction of business activity is being done on a temporary basis, for a
period of time less than 30 days, and from a location or place of business
which is not affixed to the ground or, if affixed, to be used less than 30
days, or hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad box car or boat, public room in hotels or motels,
lodging houses, apartments, shops or any street, alley or other place within
the county, for the exhibition and sale of the goods, wares and merchandise,
either privately or at public auction, and either direct to the general public
or by sample for later delivery thereof. The person, firm or corporation so
engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the provisions of this
chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting the transient business in
connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer, trader,
merchant or auctioneer.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 3-9-1992)
§ 110.03 PERMIT FEES; ISSUANCE; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The sales permit to be paid by each individual, sole proprietor,
partnership or corporation pursuing a nonpermanent commercial concern shall pay
to the office of the County Auditor, or his or her designate, the sum of $100
for the privilege of pursuing those commercial concerns for a period not
exceeding 24 hours, the sum of $150 for the privilege of conducting commercial
concern for a period not exceeding 48 hours and the sum of $300 for the
privilege of conducting commercial concerns for a period of time up to but not
exceeding 30 days.
   (B)   The permit shall not issue until the permit fee specified herein is
paid in full either in cash or money order. No checks shall be accepted in
payment for the permit. After the permit has been paid for and issued, the
permit holder shall deliver the permit to the Office of the Washington/Daviess
County Chamber of Commerce, which office shall issue to the holder of the
permit, one or more identification cards stating, among other things, that the
bearer of the identification card is properly permitted by the county to
conduct nonpermanent commercial activities within the county. The
identification card must be worn at all times by the individual while
conducting the commercial activity.
   (C)   If a permit is issued for 30 days hereunder, the holder of the permit
must, at the end of 15 days from the issuance of the permit, report again to
the Office of the Washington/Daviess County Chamber of Commerce and shall seek
a renewal of the identification card for the remaining 15 days. The county,
acting through the chamber, reserves the right not to renew the identification
card if either the county or the chamber has received more than what it
considers a reasonable number of complaints from citizens concerning the holder
of the permit. If the identification card is not renewed hereunder, the chamber
shall promptly notify the County Auditor, and the County Auditor shall refund
one-half of the permit fee to the permitee. The county hereby designates the
Washington/Daviess County Chamber of Commerce as its exclusive agent for
determining whether or not to renew a permit at the end of 15 days.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 3-9-1992) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 DEFINITIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   As further used in this chapter, COMMERCIAL CONCERN shall be defined as any
commercial transaction resulting in goods, wares or merchandise being sold by
the commercial concern to the public for monetary payment therefor, excepting
therefrom a service or any endeavor generally recognized as a garage sale, a
porch sale, a yard sale or flea market. Also, excepted from this chapter shall
be any items sold at any public auction, estates of decedents or other not-for-
profit and charitable endeavors. Also, excepted herefrom shall be the sale of
any item or food article sold at public gatherings or on recognized holidays
and activities which occur within the corporate boundaries of the county. Also
excluded from the provisions hereof is the sale of any handmade or handcrafted
items being offered for sale by the maker thereof.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 3-9-1992; Ord. 92-4, passed 4-13-1992)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   The County Sheriff’s Department is hereby ordered and directed to enforce
this statute, and anyone found conducting commercial activities and concerns
contrary to the dictates of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class A
infraction for each day the activity and/or endeavor continues and shall be
fined in the sum of $500 for each infraction for each day business is conducted
without the appropriate sales permit, and the County Sheriff’s Department is
hereby ordered and directed to enforce this statute, which shall be in full
force and effect from and after its date of passing by the County Commissioners
and the publication for two consecutive weeks in the three newspapers of
general circulation, printed and published in the county.
(Ord. 92-2, passed 3-9-1992)
CHAPTER 111: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Purpose and findings
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Classification
   
111.04   License required
   
111.05   Issuance of license
   
111.06   Fees
   
111.07   Expiration of license
   
111.08   Suspension
   
111.09   Revocation
   
111.10   Judicial review
Specific Provisions
   
111.25   No transfer of license
   
111.26   Location restrictions
   
111.27   Exterior portions of sexually oriented businesses
   
111.28   Signage
   
111.29   Sale, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
111.30   Persons younger than 18 prohibited from entry; attendant required
   
111.31   Massages or baths administered by person of opposite sex
   
111.32   Hours of operation
   
111.33   Exhibition of sexually explicit films and video
   
111.34   Notices
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Administration, see Title III
   Food establishments, see
Chapter 113
   General Regulations, see Title IX
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses and related activities to promote the health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the citizens of the county, and to establish
reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious location and
concentration of sexually oriented businesses within the county. The provisions
of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually
oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter
to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected
by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene materials.
   (B)   Findings. See Exhibit A of Ord. 2000-2, which is on file in the office
of the County Clerk.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   A commercial establishment that, as one of its principal business
purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any one or
more of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion picture, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations that depict or describe “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use
in connection with “specified sexual activities”.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other principal business
purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of material
depicting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas” and still be categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Other
business purposes will not serve to exempt the commercial establishments from
being categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as one of
its principal business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for
consideration the specified materials that depict or describe “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”. A principal business purpose need
not be a primary use of an establishment so long as it is a significant use
based upon the visible inventory or commercial activity of the establishment.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities”;
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”;
or
      (4)   Persons who engage in erotic dancing or performances that are
intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or customers.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
that are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way that advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 24 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than 24 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown that are characterized by the
depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   ADULT THEATER.  A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features persons who appear, in person, in a state
of nudity and/or semi-nudity, and/or live performances that are characterized
by the exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual
activities”.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full time, part time, contract basis or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, and whether or not the person is paid a salary,
wage or other compensation by the operator of the business. EMPLOYEE does not
include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the
premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the
premises, nor does EMPLOYEE include a person exclusively on the premises as a
patron or customer.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business;
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business; or
      (5)   A sexually oriented business or premises on which the sexually
oriented business is located.
   LICENSED DAY-CARE CENTER. A facility licensed by the state, whether situated
within the county or not, that provides care, training, education, custody,
treatment or supervision for more than 12 children under 14 years of age, where
the children are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to the owner or
operator of the facility, for less than 24 hours a day, regardless of whether
or not the facility is operated for a profit or charges for the services it
offers.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license; and in the case of an employee, a person in
whose name a license has been issued authorizing employment in a sexually
oriented business.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO.
      (1)   Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or
displays “specified anatomical areas” is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
for consideration.
      (2)   NUDE MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school licensed
by the state, or a college, junior college or university supported entirely or
in part by public taxation; a private college or university which maintains and
operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college,
junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a
structure;
         (a)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing;
         (b)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude model is on the
premises at any one time,
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals, or vulva,
with less than a fully opaque covering; or a female breast with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the areola; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to §
111.04 below;
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDITY. The appearance of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point. This
definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast,
but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast
exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit or other wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-
nudity.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
fully and opaquely covered; and/or
      (2)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; sexual assault;
molestation of a child; or any similar sex-related offenses to those described
above under the criminal or penal code of this state, other states or other
countries; and/or
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than ten years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; and/or
         (c)   Less than ten years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any 24-month period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the
applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts, whether covered or uncovered;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor areas exist
on July 1,1998.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device
that transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.03 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the Commissioners pursuant
to this chapter;
      (2)   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ
a person to work for the sexually oriented business who is not licensed as a
sexually oriented business employee by the Commissioners pursuant to this
chapter; and/or
      (3)   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business without having secured a sexually oriented business employee license
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a sexually oriented business license must be made
on a form provided by the county. The application must be accompanied by a
sketch or a diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a
statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram
need not be professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or
drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of
plus or minus six inches.
   (C)   All applicants for a license must be qualified according to the
provisions of this chapter. The application may request, and the applicant
shall provide, the information (including fingerprints) so as to enable the
county to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established
under this chapter. The applicant has an affirmative duty to supplement an
application with new information received subsequent to the date the
application was deemed completed.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to own or operate a sexually oriented business
is an individual he or she must sign the application for a business license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a business license as applicant. If
a corporation is listed as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the
entity that wishes to operate such a business, each individual having a 10% or
greater interest in the corporation must sign the application for a business
license as applicant.
   (E)   Applications for a business license, whether original or renewal, must
be made to the Commissioners by the intended operator of the enterprise.
Applications must be submitted to the office of the Commissioners or the
Commissioners’ designee during regular working hours. Application forms shall
be supplied by the Commissioners.
   (F)   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Payment of the application fee in full;
      (2)   If the establishment is a state corporation, a certified copy of
the articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto;
      (3)   If the establishment is a foreign corporation, a certified copy of
the certificate of authority to transact business in this state, together with
all amendments thereto;
      (4)   If the establishment is a limited partnership formed under the laws
of the state, a certified copy of the certificate of limited partnership,
together with all amendments thereto;
      (5)   If the establishment is a foreign limited partnership, a certified
copy of the certificate of limited partnership and the qualification documents,
together with all amendments thereto;
      (6)   Proof of the current fee ownership of the tract of land on which
the establishment is to be situated in the form of a copy of the recorded deed;
      (7)   If the persons identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of land
in division (F)(6) above is not also the owner of the sexually oriented
business, then the lease, purchase contract, purchase option contract, lease
option contract or other document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable right
of the owner(s) or proposed owner(s) of the sexually oriented business to have
or obtain the use and possession of the tract or portion thereof that is to be
used for the sexually oriented business;
      (8)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented businesses
within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified; the property lines of any
established religious institution/synagogue, school, public park or recreation
area, or family-oriented entertainment business within 1,500 feet of the
property to be certified. For purposes of this section, a USE shall be
considered existing or established if it is in existence at the time an
application is submitted; and
      (9)   Any of divisions (F)(2) through (8) above shall not be required for
a renewal application if the applicant states that the documents previously
furnished to the Commissioners with the original application or previous
renewals thereof remain correct and current.
   (G)   Applications for an employee license to work and/or perform services
in a sexually oriented business, whether original or renewal, must be made to
the Commissioners by the person to whom the employee license shall issue. Each
application for an employee license shall be accompanied by payment of the
application fee in full. Application forms shall be supplied by the
Commissioners. Applications must be submitted to the office of the
Commissioners or the Commissioners’ designee during regular working hours.
   (H)   Attached to the application form for a license shall be the following:
      (1)   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant’s
face, and the applicant’s fingerprints on a form provided by the Police
Department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant;
      (2)   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether the applicant in this or any other city, county, state or
country, has ever had any license, permit or authorization to do business
denied, revoked or suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or
permit denied, revoked or suspended. In the event of any denial, revocation or
suspension, state the name(s) under which the license was sought and/or issued,
the names of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe in full the
reason(s) for the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy of any order of
denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to the application; and
      (3)   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted, or is
awaiting trial on pending charges, of a “specified criminal activity” as
defined in §
111.02 above, and, if so, the “specified criminal activity” involved, the date,
place and jurisdiction of each.
   (I)   Every application for a license shall contain a statement under oath
that:
      (1)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained
in the application, and that the information contained therein and furnished
therewith is true and correct; and
      (2)   The applicant has read the provisions of this chapter.
   (J)   A separate application and business license shall be required for each
sexually oriented business classification as set forth in §
111.03 above.
   (K)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or county
permits and/or licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of
obtaining a sexually oriented business or employee license.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of an application for a sexually oriented business
employee license, the Commissioners shall issue a temporary license to the
applicant.
      (1)   The application shall then be referred to the appropriate county
departments for investigation to be made on the information contained in the
application. The application process shall be completed within 30 days from the
date of the completed application.
      (2)   After the investigation, the Commissioners shall issue an employee
license, unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one or
more of the following findings is true:
         (a)   The applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
         (b)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
         (c)   The applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal
activity” as defined in §
111.02 above;
         (d)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used
for employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
         (e)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee
license revoked by the county within two years of the date of the current
application.
      (3)   If the sexually oriented business employee license is denied, the
temporary license previously issued is immediately deemed null and void.
Denial, suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this division
shall be subject to appeal as set forth in division (I) below.
   (B)   A license issued pursuant to division (A) of this section, if granted,
shall state on its face the name of the person to whom it is granted, the
expiration date, and the address of the sexually oriented business. The
employee shall keep the license on his or her person at all times while engaged
in employment or performing services on the sexually oriented business premises
so that the license may be available for inspection upon lawful request.
   (C)   A license issued pursuant to division (A) of this section shall be
subject to annual renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a
finding by the Commissioners that the applicant has not been convicted of any
“specified criminal activity” as defined in this chapter, or committed any act
during the existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny the
initial license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall be
made within 30 days of the completed application. The renewal of a license
shall be subject to the fee as set forth in §
111.06 below. Non- renewal of a license shall be subject to appeal as set forth
in division (I) below.
   (D)   If application is made for a sexually oriented business license, the
Commissioners shall approve or deny issuance of the license within 45 days of
receipt of the completed application. The Commissioners shall issue a license
to an applicant unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that
one or more of the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      (2)   An applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (3)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the county to operate a sexually oriented business
within the preceding 12 months, or whose license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
      (4)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing is
overdue in payment to the county in taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed
against or imposed upon him or her in relation to any business;
      (5)   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a “specified criminal activity” as defined in §
111.02 above;
      (6)   The license fee required under this chapter has not been paid; and/
or
      (7)   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with one or more of the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   A license issued pursuant to division (D) above, if granted, shall
state on its face the name of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the
expiration date, the address of the sexually oriented business, and the §
111.03 above classification for which the license is issued. The license shall
be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually
oriented business so that it may be easily read at any time.
   (F)   The Health Department and Fire Department shall complete their
certification that the premises are in compliance or not in compliance within
20 days of receipt of the completed application by the Commissioners. The
certification shall be promptly presented to the Commissioners.
   (G)   A sexually oriented business license shall issue for only one
classification, as set forth in §
111.03 above.
   (H)   In the event that the Commissioners determine that an applicant is not
eligible for a sexually oriented business license, the applicant shall be given
notice in writing of the reasons for the denial within 45 days of the receipt
of the completed application by the Commissioners, provided that the applicant
may request, in writing at any time before the notice is issued, that the
period be extended for an additional period of not more than ten days in order
to make modifications necessary to comply with this chapter.
   (I)   A license issued pursuant to division (D) above shall be subject to
annual renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by
the Commissioners that the applicant has not been convicted of any “specified
criminal activity” as defined in this chapter, or committed any act during the
existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny the initial
license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall be made
within 45 days of the completed application. The renewal of a license shall be
subject to the fee as set forth in §
111.06 below.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.06 FEES.
   (A)   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business license, whether new
or renewal, is $5,000.
   (B)   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business employee license,
whether new or renewal, is $500.
   (C)   These fees are to be used to pay for the cost of the administration
and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.07 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may
be renewed only by making application as provided in §
111.04 above. Application for renewal should be made at least 45 days before
the expiration date. When application is made less than 45 days before the
expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   When the Commissioners deny renewal of a license, the applicant shall
not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.08 SUSPENSION.
   The Commissioners shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days
if they determine that licensee or an employee of licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
   (B)   Operated or performed services in a sexually oriented business while
intoxicated by the use of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances;
   (C)   Refused to allow prompt inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter; and/or
   (D)   With knowledge, permitted gambling by any person on the sexually
oriented business premises.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.09 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Commissioners shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in
this section occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The Commissioners shall revoke a license if he or she determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee, or a person with whom the licensee is residing, was
convicted of a “specified criminal activity” on a charge that was pending prior
to the issuance of the license;
      (3)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted the possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted the sale, use or
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises;
      (5)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted prostitution on the
premises;
      (6)   A licensee has, with knowledge, operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (7)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sexual conduct to
occur in or on the licensed premises;
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the county or state for any
taxes or fees;
      (9)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted a person under 18 years
of age to enter the establishment;
      (10)   A licensee has attempted to sell his or her business license, or
has sold, assigned or transferred ownership or control of the sexually oriented
business to a non-licensee of the establishment; and/or
      (11)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted a person or persons to
engage in specified sexual activities on the premises of the sexually oriented
business.
   (C)   When the Commissioners revoke a license, the revocation shall continue
for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business
license for one year from the date revocation became effective.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.10 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   (A)   After denial of an initial or renewal application by the County
Commissioners, or suspension or revocation of a license by the Commissioners,
the applicant or licensee may seek prompt judicial review of the administrative
action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   The administrative action shall be promptly reviewed by the court.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 111.25 NO TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.26 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses shall be permitted, provided that:
   (A)   The sexually oriented business may not be operated within:
      (1)   One thousand feet of a church, synagogue or regular place of
religious worship;
      (2)   One thousand feet of a public or private elementary or secondary
school;
      (3)   Five hundred feet of a boundary of any residential district;
      (4)   Five hundred feet of a public park;
      (5)   Five hundred feet of a licensed day-care facility with nine or more
children;
      (6)   One thousand feet of an entertainment business that is oriented
primarily towards children or family entertainment; or
      (7)   One thousand feet of another sexually oriented business.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business may not be operated in the same building,
structure or portion thereof, containing another sexually oriented business
that is classified in accordance with §
111.03 above;
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church, synagogue, regular place of worship, or public or
private elementary or secondary school, or to the nearest boundary of an
affected public park, residential district or residential lot, or licensed day
care center, or child or family entertainment business; and
   (D)   For purposes of division (C) above, the distance between any two
sexually oriented business uses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of
the structure in which each business is located.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.27 EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to a
sexually oriented business if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
      (2)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in a way so as to be a component
of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial multi-unit
center.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other county ordinance, code or regulation to the
contrary, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any sexually oriented
business or any other person to erect, construct or maintain any sign for the
sexually oriented business other than the one primary sign and one secondary
sign, as provided herein.
   (B)   Primary signs shall have no more than two display surfaces. Each
display surface shall:
      (1)   Not contain any flashing lights;
      (2)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (3)   Not exceed 75 square feet in area; and
      (4)   Not exceed ten feet in height or ten feet in length.
   (C)   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings or
pictorial representations in any manner, and may contain only the name of the
enterprise.
   (D)   Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of solid color,
and each letter shall be the same print-type, size and color. The background
behind the lettering on the display surface of a primary sign shall be of a
uniform and solid color.
   (E)   Secondary signs shall have only one display surface. The display
surface shall:
      (1)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (2)   Not exceed 20 square feet in area;
      (3)   Not exceed five feet in height and four feet in width; and
      (4)   Be affixed or attached to any wall or door of the enterprise.
   (F)   The provisions of divisions (B)(1) and (C) and (D) above shall also
apply to secondary signs.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29 SALE, USE OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   The sale, use or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of a
sexually oriented business is prohibited.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.30 PERSONS YOUNGER THAN 18 PROHIBITED FROM ENTRY; ATTENDANT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to allow a person who is younger than 18 years of
age to enter or be on the premises of a sexually oriented business at any time
the sexually oriented business is open for business.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of each sexually oriented
business to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance to
the sexually oriented business at all times during the sexually oriented
business’ regular business hours. It shall be the duty of the attendant to
prohibit any person under the age of 18 years from entering the sexually
oriented business. It shall be presumed that an attendant knew a person was
under the age of 18 unless the attendant asked for and was furnished:
      (1)   A valid operator’s, commercial operator’s or chauffeur’s driver’s
license; or
      (2)   A valid personal identification certificate issued by the state
reflecting that the person is 18 years of age or older.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.31 MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY PERSON OF OPPOSITE SEX.
   It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage
parlor or any similar type business where any physical contact with the
recipient of those services is provided by a person of the opposite sex.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.33 EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS AND VIDEO.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette or other video
reproduction, that depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted.
      (1)   A manager’s station may not exceed 32 square feet of floor area.
The diagram shall also designate the place at which the business license will
be conspicuously posted, if granted.
      (2)   A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or
architect’s blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (3)   The Commissioners may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal
applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since
the diagram was prepared.
   (B)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (C)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s station
may be made without the prior approval of the Commissioners or his or her
designee.
   (D)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (E)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in a manner so that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of the entire area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in a manner so that there is an unobstructed
view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required
in this division (E) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of
any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the view area
specified in division (E) above remains unobstructed at all times. No doors,
walls, partitions, curtains, merchandise, display racks or other object(s)
shall obstruct from view of the manager’s station any portion of the premises
to which patrons have access. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it
shall also be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to
ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has
been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted, as
designated in the application filed pursuant to division (A) above.
   (G)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot- candle as measured at the
floor level.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of
any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (I)   No viewing room or booth may be occupied by more than one person at
any time.
   (J)   No opening of any kind shall exist between viewing rooms or booths.
   (K)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of
any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that no more than
one person at a time occupies viewing booths or rooms, and to ensure that no
person attempts to make an opening of any kind between the viewing booths or
rooms.
   (L)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, each business
day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings
or holes exist.
   (M)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all floor
coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no
rugs or carpeting.
   (N)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all wall
surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within 48 inches of
the floor.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 NOTICES.
   (A)   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Commissioners or
any other county office, division, department or other agency under this
chapter to any applicant, operator or owner of a sexually oriented business may
be given either by personal delivery or by certified United States mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address
as specified in the application for the license, or any notice of address
change that has been received by the Commissioners.
      (1)   Notices mailed as above shall be deemed given upon their deposit in
the United States mail.
      (2)   In the event that any notice given by mail is returned by the
postal service, the Commissioners or their designee shall cause it to be posted
at the principal entrance to the establishment.
   (B)   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Commissioners by
any person under this chapter shall not be deemed given until and unless it is
received in the office of the Commissioners.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the Commissioners in writing
of any change of residence or mailing address.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid business license, or in violation of this chapter, is subject
to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for ordinance violations. Each
day a sexually oriented business so operates is a separate offense or violation
and shall carry a civil penalty not to exceed $2,500 per offense or violation.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-10-2000)
CHAPTER 112: JUNKYARD CONTROL
Section
   
112.01   Title
   
112.02   Purpose
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Location
   
112.05   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “County Highway Junkyard Control
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-24-2003)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of promoting the public safety, health, welfare, convenience
and enjoyment of public travel, to protect the public investment in public
highways and to preserve and enhance the scenic beauty of the lands bordering
public highways, it is hereby declared to be in the public interest, to
regulate and restrict the establishment operation and maintenance of junkyards
in the areas adjacent to the county highways within this county.
(Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-24-2003)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked,
scraped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts.
   COUNTY HIGHWAY or COUNTY ROAD. The portion of the county highway or county
road so designated on the county highway map as amended, which is kept in the
county highway garage and those roads which the county receives money from the
state.
   JUNK.
      (1)   Old or scrap cooper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper trash,
rubber, debris, waste or junk, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts
thereof from iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or non-ferrous
materials.
      (2)   Also, used lumber.
   JUNKYARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained or
operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk or for the
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard and the term shall include
garbage dumps and sanitary fills, but shall not include any scrap metal
processing building.
   PERSONS. Any individual firm, partnership, corporation, group or
association.
   SCRAP METAL PROCESSING FACILITIES. An establishment having facilities for
processing iron, steel or non-ferrous metal and whose principle product is
scrap iron, steel or scrap for sale for smelting purposes only.
   VISIBLE. Capable of being seen by a person of normal visual activity using
the highway system.
(Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-24-2003)
§ 112.04 LOCATION.
   No person may establish, operate or maintain a junkyard or scrap metal
processing facility or store junk on any portion which is within 1,000 feet of
the nearest edge of a right-of-way of any county highway or county road, except
for the following:
   (A)   Those which are screened by natural objects, plantings, fences or
other appropriate means so as to be visible from the main travel lay or any
county highway or county road, or otherwise removed from sight;
   (B)   Those located within areas which are zoned for industrial use under
the authority of law;
   (C)   Those located within un-zoned industrial areas as determined by the
State Planning Agency and approved by the Secretary of the Department of
Transportation; and
   (D)   Those which are not visible from the main travelway of any county
highway or county road.
(Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-24-2003) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The County Commissioners hereby designate the County Sanitation
Officer as the agency which shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   When any violation of this chapter is discovered or brought to the
attention of the County Sanitation Officer, the County Sanitation Officer shall
study the circumstances and shall determine if this chapter has been violated.
   (C)   Whenever the County Sanitation Officer shall determine that a
violation exists, he or she shall enter a resolution setting out the nature,
extent and location of any violation and refer the resolution to the County
Attorney.
   (D)   Thereupon, the County Attorney shall commence an action in the name of
the county in the proper court in order to enjoin a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   In addition, the County Attorney may request that the prosecuting
attorney of the judicial circuit in which the violation has occurred to
institute criminal proceedings against any person or persons who are
responsible for the establishment, maintenance, use or operation, which is a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-24-2003)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates this chapter or knowingly allows a junkyard or
scrap metal processing facility to be established or maintained on his or her
property in violation of this chapter may be fined not more $1,000. Whenever
the County Sanitation Officer is given written notice that a junkyard or scrap
metal processing facility is maintained or operated in violation of this
chapter, the County Sanitation Officer shall give 30-days’ notice by certified
mail to the owner of the property on which the violation exists. If the owner
fails to act within 30 days as required by the notice, then each day of the
maintenance or operation beginning on the first day following the receipt of
the notice by the owner constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   A person who recklessly, knowingly or intentionally places or leaves
refuse on property of another person, except in a container provided for
refuse, commits littering and is in violation of this chapter, and may be fined
not more than $1,000. REFUSE includes solid and semi-solid wastes, dead animals
and offal. Evidence that littering was committed from a moving vehicles other
than a public conveyance constitutes prima facie evidence that it was committed
by the operator of that vehicle.
(Ord. 2003-1, passed 3-24-2003)
CHAPTER 113: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS/BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Permits
   
113.03   Fees for permits
   
113.04   Inspection
   
113.05   Compliance and enforcement
   
113.06   Appeals
   
113.07   Conflict of interest
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, an
operator- occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provided breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. Derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-1-1(b)(2). A situation in
which the private financial interest of a county official, county official’s
spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or unemancipated child, may
influence the County Official’s judgment in the performance of a public duty.
Note: the county officials should follow the code of ethics if a code of ethics
was established for the county officials.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local Health Department in the county, or
authorized representative having jurisdiction over bed and breakfast
establishments, retail food establishments and/or temporary food
establishments.
   COUNTY OFFICIAL. Any official of Daviess County, Indiana.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. As defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24, a written document that delineates for formal procedures for
following the hazard analysis critical control point principles developed by
the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer having jurisdiction in the county, or his
or her duly authorized representative.
   HEARING OFFICERS. An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a Hearing Officer in proceedings. The HEARING OFFICER is not the
Health Officer or any other employee of the County Health Department. (Examples
of HEARING OFFICER could be the County Health Board, a subcommittee of the
County Health Board, a subcommittee of health professionals from the community
or any other non-bias third party appointed by the Health Board.)
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. Any circumstance or situation which, in the opinion
of the Health Officer, endangers the health of the general public.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the County Health Department
that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to the operator.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. Derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9, a County Health Department action of
particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties, privileges,
immunities or other legal interests of one or more specific persons. The term
includes a PERMIT.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the County Health Department that authorizes
a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON. An association; a corporation; an individual; partnership; or other
legal entity, government or governmental subdivision or agency.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. As derived from 410 I.A.C. 7-24:
      (1)   An operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends or
otherwise provides food for human consumption, such as:
         (a)   A restaurant;
         (b)   A satellite or catered feeding location;
         (c)   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly to
a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people;
         (d)   A retail meat market, fresh fruit and vegetable market, poultry
market, fish market, delicatessen, confectionery, candy kitchen, nut store or
retail bakery;
         (e)   A grocery store;
         (f)   A convenience store;
         (g)   A vending location;
         (h)   A conveyance used to transport people;
         (i)   A private, public or non-profit organization routinely serving
food;
         (j)   A tavern, bar, cocktail lounge, night club, tea room, coffee
shop, café, cafeteria or soda fountain;
         (k)   An institution;
         (l)   A food bank; and
         (m)   That relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or
indirectly through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carrier.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   An element of the operation, such as transportation vehicle or a
central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority; and
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off the
premises, and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24, a retail food
establishment that operates for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in
conjunction with a single event or celebration with the approval of the
organizers of the event or celebration.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 113.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
county, without first obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer.
      (2)   The valid permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the
bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary
food establishment.
      (3)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 will be entitled to obtain and keep a
permit.
      (4)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
operated or to be operated by any person.
      (5)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
      (6)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment
permitted by the County Health Department shall be considered registered as
required in I.C.16-42-1-6.
   (B)   Permit period. A permit for a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment shall be issued for a term beginning January 1, and/
or before commencement of operation, and expiring December 31, of the same year
and shall be applied for by the person and/or operator annually. A permit for a
temporary food establishment shall be for the term of one continuous operation.
   (C)   Permit content. Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit
is granted;
      (2)   The name and location of the establishment for which the permit is
issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other pertinent data as may be required by the County Health
Officer.
   (D)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment
shall submit to the County Health Department a written application for a permit
on a form provided by the County Health Department.
   (E)   Content of the application. The application shall include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address and location of the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment is owned by an
association, corporation, individual, partnership or other legal entity;
      (3)   A statement specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment:
         (a)   If not permanent, is mobile and/or temporary; and
         (b)   The operation includes one or more of the following;
            1.   Prepares, offers for sale or serves potentially hazardous
food:
               a.   Only to order upon a consumer’s request;
               b.   In advance in quantities based on projected consumer demand
and discards food that is not sold or served at an approved frequency;
               c.   Using time, rather than temperature, as the public health
control as specified under 410 I.A.C. 7-24; or
               d.   Prepares acidified foods as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-21-3.
            2.   Prepares potentially hazardous food in advance using a food
preparation method that involves two or more steps which may include combining
potentially hazardous ingredients; cooking; cooling; reheating; hot or cold
holding; freezing; or thawing;
            3.   Prepares food as specified under item (E)(3)(b)2. of this
section for delivery to and consumption at a location off the premises of the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment where it is
prepared;
            4.   Prepares food as specified under item (E)(3)(b)2. of this
section for service to a highly susceptible population, as defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24;
            5.   Prepares only food that is not potentially hazardous; or
            6.   Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prepackaged food
that is not potentially hazardous.
      (4)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (5)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor or the person specified under division
(E)(4) of this section such as the zone, district or regional supervisor;
      (6)   The names, titles and addresses of:
         (a)   The persons comprising the legal ownership as specified under
division (E)(2) of this section including the owners and operators; and
         (b)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership.
      (7)   A statement signed by the application that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the applicant will:
            1.   Comply with this chapter; and
            2.   Allow the County Health Department access to the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment and records as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and 410 I.A.C. 7-
24.
      (8)   Other information required by the County Health Department.
   (F)   Qualifications. To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment and provide
required information; and
      (4)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
   (G)   Plans; requirements.
      (1)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed
and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment shall submit to
the County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for
review and approval before:
         (a)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment; or
         (c)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment or food operation if the County
Health Department determines that plans and specifications are necessary to
ensure compliance with this section.
      (2)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment shall include, the type of operation, type of
food preparation (as specified in Appendix B of the published version of 410
I.A.C. 7-24) and the menu.
      (3)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and
approved by the County Health Department before a permit can be issued.
      (4)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment is built or remodeled in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and that the
establishment is in compliance with this chapter, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5.
   (H)   Change of ownership. The County Health Department may renew a permit
for an existing bed and breakfast establishment, and/or retail food
establishment or may issue a permit to a new owner of an existing bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment after a properly
completed application is submitted, reviewed and approved, the fees are paid,
and an inspection shows that the establishment is in compliance with this
chapter.
   (I)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the County Health Department, the operator in order to retain the permit
shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the County
Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the County Health Department access to the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at all
reasonable times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the County Health Department, including
time frames for corrective action specified in inspection reports, notices,
orders, warnings and other directives issued by the County Health Department in
regard to the operator’s bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment or in response to community emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the County Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or retail food establishment that is conspicuous to
consumers;
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 FEES FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
the county, who has not paid the permit fee required to be paid for the
operation of the establishment.
      (2)   The fee shall be paid for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
      (3)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a
bed and breakfast establishment, a retail food establishment and/or temporary
food establishment shall conform to the fee schedule ordinance approved by the
County Commissioners, as provided by the statutes of the state.
      (4)   A receipt for the payment of the fee shall be provided by the
County Health Department and all funds received from the permit fees shall be
transferred to the Health Fund of the county.
      (5)   The payment of the fees shall be required for each bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment operated or to be operated by any person.
   (B)   Exemption from permit fees. An organization that is exempt from the
state gross income tax under I.C. 6-3-2 and offers food for sale to the final
consumer at an event held for the benefit of the organization is exempt from
the payment of fees. The Health Officer shall be provided, upon request, proof
of an organization’s tax exemption.
   (C)   Late fees. A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the
operation of the bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment or the late fee for failure to renew a permit after the
expiration of the permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
retail food establishment shall be assessed. All assessed late fees shall
conform to the fee schedule ordinance approved by the County Commissioners and
upon receipt shall be transferred to the Health Fund of the county. (See 410
I.A.C. 7-24.)
   (D)   Payment of fees. The payment of fees under this chapter is not
transferable or refundable.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Generally. The County Health Department shall inspect a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment at least once per
calendar year. The County Health Department may increase the interval between
inspections beyond one year, if;
      (1)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is fully operating under an approved and validated hazard
analysis critical control point (HACCP) plan(s);
      (2)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment is assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a
written risk-based inspection schedule that is being uniformly applied
throughout the jurisdiction; and
      (3)   The County Health Department may contact the operator to determine
that the nature of the food operation has not changed.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The County Health Department shall
periodically inspect throughout its permit period a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells or serves unpackaged potentially hazardous
food and may inspect a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells or
serves unpackaged, non-potentially hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as hand washing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, ware-washing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal, and insect and rodent control; or
      (2)   Has untrained food employees.
   (C)   Performance and risk based inspections. Within the parameters
specified in the above inspection section(s) of this chapter, the County Health
Department shall prioritize, and conduct more frequent inspections based upon
its assessment of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or retail food
establishment’s history of compliance with this chapter and the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment’s potential as a
vector of food-borne illness by evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance, for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C.
7-20 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or HACCP plan
requirements that are critical or non-critical;
      (2)   Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C.
7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-20 and/or I.A.C. 7-24 and/or HACCP plan requirements
that are non-critical;
      (3)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be
valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored or served;
      (5)   The type of operation including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation and service;
      (6)   The number of people served; and
      (7)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
   (D)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice.
      (1)   After the County Health Department presents official credentials
and provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection,
the operator shall allow the County Health Department to determine if the bed
and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment is in compliance with this chapter by allowing access to the
establishment, allowing inspection, and providing information and records
specified in this chapter.
      (2)   The County Health Department is entitled the information and
records according to I.C. 16-42-1-13 and I.C. 16-42-5-23, during the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or retail food establishment’s hours of operation
and other reasonable times.
      (3)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
      (4)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law. See I.C. 16-20-1-26.
   (E)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the County
Health Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report and
the notice to correct violations to the operator or the person in charge, as
required under I.C. 16-20-8-5.
   (F)   Timely correction of critical violations.
      (1)   Except as specified in the next paragraph, an operator shall at the
time of inspection correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410
I.A.C. 7-20 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and implement
corrective actions for a HACCP plan provision that is not in compliance with
its critical limit.
      (2)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the County Health Department may
agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the operator
to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (3)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the County Health Department shall verify correction of the
violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the County Health Department’s records.
   (G)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment.
      (1)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
operator’s obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified.
      (2)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the County Health Department historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/
or temporary food establishment.
      (3)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of
the County Health Department inspection by acknowledgment of receipt.
   (H)   Public information. Except as specified in § 176 (Trade Secrets) of
410 I.A.C. 7-20, the County Health Department shall treat the inspection report
as a public document and shall make it available for disclosure to a person who
requests it as provided in law. See I.C. 16-20-8-6.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 113.05 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan renew and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment is denied, the County Health Department shall
provide the applicant with a notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
   (B)   Permit suspension. The County Health Department may suspend a permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment without notice or hearing for a period of no more
than 30 days, if it is determined through inspection, or examination of
employees, food, records or other means as specified in this chapter, that an
imminent health hazard exists.
   (C)   Ceasing operation and contacting the County Health Department. An
operator of a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment shall immediately discontinue operations and
notify the County Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist
because of an emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of
electrical or water service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic
materials, onset of an apparent food borne illness outbreak, gross insanitary
occurrence or condition, or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
The County Health Department may be contacted during normal business hours at
(812) 254-8666; or through the County Sheriff’s Department 911 Dispatch during
non-business hours. An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of
an establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
   (D)   Resuming operation. If a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment has discontinued operations
for the reasons stated above or otherwise according to law, the operator must
obtain approval from the County Health Department before resuming operations.
   (E)   Outstanding fees. Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a
permit may not be issued.
   (F)   Enforcement options. See I.C. 16-42-5-28(g).
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 113.06 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by order issued under the enforcement options
one through three of §
113.05(E) above shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a
Hearing Officer, by filing a written request therefore with the Health Officer
(Secretary of the County Board of Health). (See I.C. 16-20-1-10.) The written
request must be mailed or hand delivered to the Health Officer, and must be
received within 15 days after the final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer’s receipt of the request, the Hearing Officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the rules of court of the jurisdiction. (A shorter period of time
may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon.)
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person’s mailing address or
other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to the
Health Officer.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer establishes the rules of procedure and advised the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final order or determination of this matter in writing.
   (F)   The order completes the administrative appeals procedure.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 113.07 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No county official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner that is or
could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 3-24-2008)
CHAPTER 114: RESERVED
CHAPTER 115: TATTOO/BODY-PIERCING BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Sanitary operations
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   General requirements
   
115.04   Age limitation/consent
   
115.05   Consent/identification
   
115.06   General safety and sanitation standards
   
115.07   Operator/establishment training responsibilities
   
115.08   Business operator responsibilities
   
115.09   Operator policies
   
115.10   Artist IOSHA training; parlor responsibility
   
115.11   Patron records
   
115.12   Illness
   
115.13   Hand washing
   
115.14   Personal protective equipment
   
115.15   Tattoo/body-piercing equipment
   
115.16   Needles
   
115.17   Reusable equipment
Specific Provisions
   
115.30   Dyes or pigments
   
115.31   Work environment
   
115.32   Infectious waste containment
   
115.33   Treatment and transportation of infectious waste
   
115.34   Post tattoo/body-piercing infection prevention
   
115.35   Sanitation of mobile business
   
115.36   Temporary tattoo and body-piercing establishments
   
115.37   Operator requirements and professional standards
   
115.38   Minimum standards for all establishments which offer a body-piercing
service to the public
   
115.39   Exemptions
   
115.40   Permit requirements
   
115.41   General permit provisions
   
115.42   Revocation of permit
   
115.43   Inspections
 
   
115.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 SANITARY OPERATIONS.
   All places, individuals and businesses that offer body-piercing or affix any
type of permanent tattoo to a person shall be regulated by this chapter and
shall maintain the premises in which tattoos and body- piercing are performed
and maintain equipment used in the tattoo and body-piercing process in a
sanitary manner.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOOD. Human blood.
   BLOOD-BORNE PATHOGENS. Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These PATHOGENS include, but are not
limited to the following:
      (1)   HBV;
      (2)   HCV; and
      (3)   HIV.
   BODY-PIERCING. The perforation of any human body part other than an earlobe
for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration or for some other non-
medical purpose.
   BRANDING. The burning of human skin.
   CLEANED. Removal of all visible dust, soil or any other foreign material.
   CONTAMINATED. The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or
OPIM (other potentially infectious materials) on an item or surface.
   DECONTAMINATED. The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate
or destroy blood-borne pathogens on a surface or item which does not require
sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting
infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use
or disposal.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Health Department. The County Board of Health shall
be considered part of the DEPARTMENT, except for the purpose of conducting any
type of administrative hearing for the appeal of any decision of the Department
or Health Officer.
   HBV. The Hepatitis B Virus.
   HCV. The Hepatitis C Virus
   HEALTH OFFICER. The duly appointed Health Officer as set forth in I.C. 16-
20-2.
   HIV. The Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Waste that epidemiological evidence indicates is capable
of transmitting a dangerous communicable disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE includes,
but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Contaminated sharps or contaminated objects that could potentially
become contaminated sharps;
      (2)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated biological
and infectious agent stock;
      (3)   Pathological waste;
      (4)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form; and
      (5)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS or OPIM. Human body fluids as
follows:
      (1)   Semen;
      (2)   Vaginal secretions;
      (3)   Cerebrospinal fluid;
      (4)   Synovial fluid;
      (5)   Pleural fluid;
      (6)   Pericardial fluid;
      (7)   Peritoneal fluid;
      (8)   Amniotic fluid;
      (9)   Saliva in dental procedures;
      (10)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood; and
      (11)   All body fluids where it is difficult or impossible to
differentiate between body fluids.
   PARENTERAL. Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needle- sticks, human bites, cuts, abrasions, laser or branding.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT. Specialized clothing or equipment worn for
protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   PIERCING ARTIST. An artist or person who performs boring, penetration or
tunneling through the skin or organ of a client, in order to make a space to
hold jewelry in that place.
   SCARIFICATION (SCARRING). Includes, but is not limited to, laying the skin
wide open, via a needle; saturating the area; and the placing of autoclave sand
or other substance into the area to build up a scar.
   SECURE AREA. An area designated and maintained to prevent the entry of
unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD, BLOOD PRODUCTS. Blood, blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   STERILIZE. The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial endospores.
   STORE. The containment of infectious waste in a secure area, in a manner so
as not to constitute collection, treatment, transport or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol or other mark
placed with the aid of needles or other instruments;
      (2)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure or symbol done by scarring; upon
or under the skin; or
      (3)   Scarring or branding.
   TATTOO ARTIST. Any person who provides a tattoo to an individual.
   TATTOO OPERATOR. Any person who controls, operates, conducts, manages or
owns any tattoo parlor.
   TATTOO PARLOR. Any room or space where tattooing is provided or where the
business of tattooing is conducted.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. Includes an approach to infection control in which
all human blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be
infectious for HIV, HBV, HCV and other blood-borne pathogens.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 115.03 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Operate a business that offers tattooing or body-piercing services,
unless the County Health Department has approved the business, under 410 I.A.C.
1-5;
   (B)   Perform a tattooing or body-piercing procedure in a manner that does
not meet the safety and sanitation standards established under Rule 5, 410
I.A.C. 1-5; or
   (C)   Perform a tattooing or body-piercing procedure in a manner that does
not meet the standards for appropriate disinfection and sterilization of
invasive equipment or parts of equipment used in performing the procedures
established by this chapter, under Rule 5, 410 I.A.C. 1-5.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 AGE LIMITATION/CONSENT.
   (A)   No person shall perform a tattooing procedure on an individual who is
under 16 years of age, with or without parental consent, and no person shall
perform a body-piercing procedure on an individual who is under 14 years of
age, with or without parental consent. Parental consent is required to perform
a tattooing procedure on any individual between 16 and 18 years of age, and
parental consent is required to perform a body-piercing procedure on any
individual between 14 and 18 years of age. Tattooing or body-piercing may be
performed on individuals 18 years or older, without parental consent.
   (B)   A parent, guardian or custodian of an individual under age 18, but
over 16 years of age, who desires to give consent to a business to perform on
the individual a tattooing procedure, and a parent, guardian or custodian of an
individual under 16 years of age, but over 14 years of age who desires to give
consent to a business to perform on the individual a body-piercing procedure,
shall do both of the following:
      (1)   Appear in person at the business at the time the procedure is
performed and remain through the procedure; and
      (2)   Sign a document provided by the business that explains the manner
in which the procedure will be performed and the methods for proper care of the
affected body area following performance of the procedure.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 115.05 CONSENT/IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Unless consent has been given in accordance with the county code, no
individual, and no individual who is under age 16 years of age shall obtain or
attempt to obtain a tattooing service. Unless consent has been given in
accordance with the county code, no individual, and no individual who is under
the age of 14 years of age shall obtain or attempt to obtain a body-piercing
service.
   (B)   No individual who is under 16 years of age shall knowingly show or
give false information concerning his or her name, age or other identification
for the purpose of obtaining a tattooing service for himself or herself. No
individual who is under the age of 14 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning his or her name, age or other identification for
the purpose of obtaining a body-piercing service for himself or herself.
Likewise, no individual shall knowingly show or give false information or
identification for another individual to receive a tattooing or body-piercing
service.
   (C)   Tattoo/body-piercing parlors should require a birth certificate and
picture ID of any individual receiving tattooing services, for their own
records and protection.
   (D)   Warning: false application, altering, mutilating or counterfeiting
state birth certificates is a criminal offense under I.C. 16-37-1-12; false
application, alteration, mutilation or counterfeiting is a Class A misdemeanor.
   (E)   No individual shall impersonate the parent, guardian or custodian of
an individual who is under age 18 for the purpose of obtaining for the
individual under 18 a tattooing or body-piercing service.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 115.06 GENERAL SAFETY AND SANITATION STANDARDS.
   A business offering tattoo and/or body-piercing services shall comply with
the following provisions.
   (A)   The premises in which tattooing or body-piercing is conducted shall
consist of an area of at least 100 square feet. The floor space for each
individual performing tattoo or body-piercing services shall be an area of at
least 45 square feet. These areas shall be separated from each other and from
waiting patrons or observers by a panel or by a door. Complete privacy should
be available upon a patron’s request.
   (B)   The entire procedure room and equipment shall be maintained in a
clean, sanitary condition and in good repair.
   (C)   The tattoo/body-piercing business shall be equipped with artificial
light sources equivalent to at least 20-foot candles at a distance of 30 inches
above the floor throughout the establishment. A minimum of 40-foot candles of
light shall be provided at the level where the tattooing is being performed.
Spotlighting may be used to achieve this required degree of illumination.
   (D)   All floors directly under equipment used for tattooing and body-
piercing activities shall be an impervious, smooth, washable surface; have a
minimum dimension of six feet by six feet and shall be maintained in a sanitary
manner at all times. All walls shall be maintained in a sanitary manner.
   (E)   All tables and other equipment shall be constructed of easily
cleanable material, with a smooth, washable finish.
   (F)   Restroom facilities shall be made available to the employees and
customers of the business and must be located within the establishment. The
restroom shall be accessible at all times the business is open for operation.
The restroom shall be equipped with a toilet, toilet paper installed in a
holder, lavatory supplied with hot and cold running water, liquid antimicrobial
soap and paper towels in dispensers. Equipment and supplies used in the course
of tattoo and body-piercing services or disinfection and sterilization
procedures shall not be stored or utilized within the restroom.
   (G)   A lavatory or hand washing sink, with hot and cold running water,
antimicrobial liquid cleanser and paper towels in dispensers shall be located
in close proximity of each individual performing a tattoo or body-piercing
procedure.
   (H)   There shall be no overhead or otherwise exposed sewage lines so as to
create a potential hazard to the sanitary environment of the business.
   (I)   Gloves must be worn during all tattooing and body-piercing procedures.
   (J)   Clean dressing must be applied after completion of each tattoo.
   (K)   A parent, guardian or custodian of an individual under 18 years of age
must appear in person at the business at the time the procedure is performed.
   (L)   Prior to tattooing and body-piercing, the operator who will be
performing the procedure shall inquire of a patron for conditions which could
adversely affect the healing process. The operator shall not perform a tattoo
or body-piercing procedure on patrons indicating the presence of a like
condition without documentation from a licensed physician, indicating
acceptance of the patient for appropriate care following the procedure.
   (M)   With respect to tattooing services, written records must be
maintained, which include the professional tattooing ink for each tattoo
performed.
   (N)   Comply with the safety and sanitation requirements for preventing
transmission of infectious diseases, as established in Rule 5, 410 I.A.C. 1-5.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.07 OPERATOR/ESTABLISHMENT TRAINING RESPONSIBILITIES.
   An individual or entity that is a tattoo/body-piercing operator shall comply
with the following training responsibilities:
   (A)   Ensure that the training described in the Indiana Occupational Safety
and Health Administration’s Blood-Borne Pathogens standard (as found in 29
C.F.R. 1910.1030) is provided to all tattoo and body-piercing artists, anyone
employed by the tattoo/body-piercing parlor, or anyone acting on behalf of the
tattoo/body-piercing parlor who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin,
eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Ensure that training on the handling of infectious waste is provided
to all tattoo and body- piercing artists, anyone employed by the tattoo/body-
piercing business, or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo/body-piercing
business who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane
or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM;
   (C)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (A) above is
maintained, as required under the Indiana Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s Blood-Borne Pathogens Standard (as found in 29 C.F.R.
1910.1030) of an individual’s participation in the training that is provided.
The record shall be made available to the Department for inspection upon
request;
   (D)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (B) above is
maintained;
   (E)   Each establishment (parlor) is responsible for insuring that their
personnel meet basic standards and apprenticeship training by establishing
their own requirements; and
   (F)   Ensure that a record of annual TB testing is maintained on all tattoo
and body-piercing artists, anyone employed by the tattoo/body-piercing
business, or anyone acting on behalf of the business who has a reasonably
anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with
blood.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 115.08 BUSINESS OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The tattoo/body-piercing business operator shall ensure that tattoo
and body-piercing artists, anyone employed by the tattoo/body-piercing
business, or anyone acting on behalf of the business who has a reasonably
anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with
blood are provided personal protective equipment and expendables needed to
implement the precautions required by this rule and the Indiana Occupational
Safety and Health Administration’s Blood-Borne Pathogens Standard (as found in
29 C.F.R. 1910.1030).
   (B)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall require tattoo/body-piercing
artists, anyone employed by the tattoo/body-piercing parlor or anyone acting on
behalf of the tattoo/body-piercing parlor who has a reasonably anticipated risk
for skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood to provide
evidence of compliance with the universal precautions education requirements
contained in §
115.07 above.
   (C)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall display written materials
prepared or approved by the Department explaining universal precautions and
patrons’ rights under this rule. The materials shall include information on how
to report violations of universal precautions and shall include information
regarding the Department’s duties to investigate.
   (D)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall ensure that no illicit drugs
or alcohol are consumed in the tattoo/body-piercing parlor.
   (E)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall ensure that no tattoo or body-
piercing shall be affixed to or performed on any person who is intoxicated.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 OPERATOR POLICIES.
   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall develop a written policy in
compliance with this rule and the requirements of the Indiana Occupational
Safety and Health Administration’s Blood-Borne Pathogen Standard (as found in
29 C.F.R. 1910.1030) that:
   (A)   Requires the use of universal precautions when performing tattooing,
body-piercing and/or any activity or duty that includes any reasonably
anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or
OPIM;
   (B)   Includes the safe handling of infectious waste;
   (C)   Requires documentation of notification to a health care provider when
an employee or non- participating patron of the tattoo/body-piercing business
intentionally or un-intentionally receives a puncture wound, cut or abrasion
from a needle or any other piece of equipment associated with the tattoo/body-
piercing business; and
   (D)   Provides sanctions, including discipline and dismissal, if warranted,
for failure to use universal precautions and/or handle infectious waste safely.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.10 ARTIST IOSHA TRAINING; PARLOR RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the tattoo/body-piercing parlor to assure
that anyone employed by the establishment, and anyone acting on behalf of the
tattoo/body-piercing parlor who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin,
eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood or OPIM shall complete
the training program that is required under the requirements of the Indiana
Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s Blood-borne Pathogen Standard
(as found in 29 C.F.R. 1910.1030). The programs under this section shall be as
follows:
      (1)   A blood-borne pathogen training session provided by the tattoo/
body-piercing operator meeting the requirements under the Indiana Occupational
Safety and Health Administration’s (IOSHA’s) (as found in 29 C.F.R. 1910.1030);
and
      (2)   Any blood-borne pathogen continuing education program accredited by
a health care licensing entity.
   (B)   Anyone employed by the tattoo/body-piercing parlor or acting in behalf
of the tattoo/body- piercing parlor who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye, mucous membrane or parenteral contact with blood OPIM must be
trained in the tattoo/body-piercing parlor’s policies on the handling of
infectious waste.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.11 PATRON RECORDS.
   (A)   Records of each patron shall be maintained for two years.
   (B)   The record shall include:
      (1)   Patron’s name;
      (2)   Patron’s address;
      (3)   Age must be verified by one photo identification item or two non-
photo identification items;
      (4)   Date tattooing or body-piercing was performed;
      (5)   Design of the tattoo;
      (6)   Location of the tattoo or body-piercing on the patron’s body;
      (7)   Name and description of decorative implement or other implement
placed into the pierce body area;
      (8)   The name of the tattoo/body-piercing artist who performed the work;
and
      (9)   Parental/guardian consent must be in writing when performed on any
minor as permitted by law.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.12 ILLNESS.
   Anyone employed by a tattoo/body-piercing parlor or action in behalf of the
establishment who is experiencing symptoms of acute disease that include, but
are not limited to the following, shall refrain from providing tattoos or body-
piercings:
   (A)   Diarrhea;
   (B)   Vomiting;
   (C)   Fever;
   (D)   Potentially infectious rash;
   (E)   Productive cough;
   (F)   Jaundice; or
   (G)   Draining (or open) skin infections, boils, impetigo or scabies.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.13 HAND WASHING.
   (A)   Hand washing facilities shall be readily accessible in the same room
where tattooing and body- piercing are provided.
   (B)   Hands shall be washed with soap and running water immediately before
putting on sterile gloves and after removal of gloves or other personal
protective equipment.
   (C)   Only single use towels shall be used.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.14 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   Appropriate personal protective equipment shall be worn as follows.
   (A)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing by blood or OPIM.
   (B)   Masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles or
glasses with solid side shield, or chin length face shield, shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter or droplets of blood or OPIM may be
generated and eye, nose or mouth contamination can be reasonably anticipated.
   (C)   Disposable gloves shall be worn during the tattooing and body-piercing
process. Gloves shall be changed and properly disposed of each time there is an
interruption in the application of a tattoo or body-piercing, when the gloves
become torn or punctured, or whenever the ability to function as a barrier is
compromised. Disposable gloves shall not be reused.
   (D)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces and
equipment.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.15 TATTOO/BODY-PIERCING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Only single use razors shall be used to shave the area to be tattooed,
or body part to be pierced. Single-use razors shall be discarded in sharps
containers immediately after use.
   (B)   The stencil for transferring a design to the skin is to be single-use
only, and shall be properly disposed of after a single use.
   (C)   After shaving the area to be tattooed or pierced, or if the area does
not need to be shaved, the site of the tattoo or piercing shall be cleaned with
soap and warm water, rinsed with clean water and a germicidal solution applied
in a sanitary manner before a piercing, or before a design is placed on the
skin for use during tattooing. Other sterile, individual towels or gauze shall
be used in preparing the site to be tattooed or pierced, and proper disposed of
after use on each patron.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.16 NEEDLES.
   (A)   Needles shall come packaged and sterilized prior to use, for each
tattoo or body-piercing.
   (B)   Needles shall be single use only.
   (C)   Needles shall be discarded in sharps containers immediately after use.
   (D)   Contaminated needles shall not be re-capped, bent, broken or otherwise
manipulated by hand.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.17 REUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Autoclave sterilization must be used when heat stable, non-disposable
equipment is sterilized.
   (B)   Records must be maintained to document:
      (1)   Duration of sterilization technique;
      (2)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a biological
indicator, including spores, is performed monthly; and
      (3)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by the owner’s manual and
proof is available that the owner’s manual recommendations are reviewed
monthly.
   (C)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall not be stored or processed in a
manner that requires any person to reach by hand into the containers where
these sharp items have been placed.
   (D)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be:
      (1)   Placed in puncture-resistant containers;
      (2)   Labeled with biohazard symbol;
      (3)   Leak-proof on both sides and bottom; and
      (4)   Stored in a manner that does not require reaching by hand into the
container where the equipment is stored until cleaning prior to sterilization.
   (E)   Contaminated reusable equipment shall be effectively cleaned prior to
sterilization.
   (F)   Reusable tubes shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized before
reuse.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 115.30 DYES OR PIGMENTS.
   (A)   All dyes or pigments in tattooing shall be from professional suppliers
specifically providing dyes or pigments for the tattooing of human skin.
   (B)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used by tattoo artists, only non-
toxic sterile materials shall be used. Single use or individual portions of
dyes or pigments in clean, sterilized containers shall be used for each patron.
   (C)   After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single use or
individual containers shall be discarded along with the container.
   (D)   Written instructions shall be given to each patron or customer on the
care of the skin on the tattooed site, to prevent infection after each
tattooing. A copy of these instructions shall also be posted in a conspicuous
place in the tattoo establishment, and be clearly visible to the person being
tattoo.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.31 WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   No tattooing or body-piercing shall be conducted in any room used as
living quarters or in any room that opens directly into living or sleeping
quarters.
   (B)   Live animals shall be excluded from areas where tattooing or body-
piercing is being conducted. This exclusion does not apply to:
      (1)   Patrol dogs accompanying security or police officers; or
      (2)   Guide dogs accompanying:
         (a)   Blind persons;
         (b)   Partially blind persons;
         (c)   Physically disabled persons;
         (d)   Guide dog trainers; or
         (e)   Persons with impaired hearing.
   (C)   Eating, drinking, smoking or applying cosmetics shall not be allowed
in work areas where there is a likelihood of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (D)   Food and drink shall not be kept in areas where there is a reasonably
anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (E)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
decontaminated after contact with blood or OPIM.
   (F)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization that
have been contaminated by blood shall be cleaned and decontaminated.
   (G)   All work surfaces shall be:
      (1)   Non-absorbent;
      (2)   Easily cleanable;
      (3)   Smooth; and
      (4)   Free of:
         (a)   Breaks;
         (b)   Open seams;
         (c)   Cracks;
         (d)   Chips;
         (e)   Pits; and
         (f)   Similar imperfections.
   (H)   Disinfectant solutions shall be:
      (1)   A hospital-grade, tuberculocidal Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) registered disinfectant; or
      (2)   Sodium hypochlorite, 0.5% concentration, by volume (common
household bleach is 10% concentration in water); the solution shall be dated
and shall not be used if it is more that 24 hours old.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.32 INFECTIOUS WASTE CONTAINMENT.
   (A)   Contaminated disposable needles or sharp instruments shall be stored
in leak-resistant, puncture- resistant containers, tightly sealed to prevent
expulsion, labeled with the biohazard symbol and effectively treated in
accordance with this rule, prior to being stored in a secured area and sent for
final disposal.
   (B)   Infectious wastes other than contaminated sharps or objects that could
potentially become contaminated sharps shall be placed in bags that meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   Impervious to moisture;
      (2)   Sufficient strength and thickness to prevent expulsion;
      (3)   Secured to prevent leakage expulsion;
      (4)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol; and
      (5)   Effectively treated in accordance with this rule prior to being
placed in a secured area and sent for final disposal.
   (C)   If infectious waste is stored prior to final disposal, all persons
subject to this rule shall store infectious waste in a secure area that:
      (1)   Is locked or otherwise secured to eliminate access by or exposure
to the general public;
      (2)   Affords protection from adverse environmental conditions and
vermin; and
      (3)   Has a prominently displayed biohazard symbol.
   (D)   Infectious waste shall be stored in a manner that preserves the
integrity of the container, and is not conductive to rapid microbial growth and
putrefaction.
   (E)   Reusable containers must be disinfected against infectious waste, each
time that they are emptied, unless the surfaces of the reusable containers have
been protected from contamination by disposable liners, bags or other devices
that are removed with the infectious waste.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.33 TREATMENT AND TRANSPORTATION OF INFECTIOUS WASTE.
   (A)   All tattoo/body-piercing operators shall ensure that infectious waste
is either treated on-site in accordance with this rule or transported off-site
for treatment in accordance with this rule.
   (B)   A treatment is effective if it reduces the pathogenic qualities of
infectious waste for safe handling, is designed for the specific waste involved
and is carried out in a manner consistent with this rule. Effective treatment
may include:
      (1)   Incineration in an incinerator designed to accommodate infectious
waste;
      (2)   Steam sterilization;
      (3)   Chemical disinfecting under circumstances where safe handling of
the waste is assured;
      (4)   Thermal inactivation; or
      (5)   Irradiation.
   (C)   All persons subject to this rule shall:
      (1)   Transport infectious waste in a manner that reasonably protects
waste hauler and the public from contracting a dangerous communicable disease;
and
      (2)   Effectively treat infectious waste in accordance with this rule
before it is compacted.
   (D)   The tattoo/body-piercing operator shall ensure that infectious waste,
effectively treated or not, is transported off-site in compliance with 410
I.A.C. 1-3.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.34 POST TATTOO/BODY-PIERCING INFECTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Each tattoo/body-piercing business is to provide instruction to its
clients in methods to prevent infection, such as the use of bactericidal creams
and ointments and soap, and appropriate barrier dressings where indicated.
   (B)   Each client should be instructed to seek immediate medical attention
should there be any evidence of infection.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.35 SANITATION OF MOBILE BUSINESS.
   In addition, to comply with all of the requirements of this code, mobile
tattoo/body-piercing vehicles and operators working from the mobile tattoo and
body-piercing establishment shall also comply with all of the following
requirements.
   (A)   Mobile tattoo and body-piercing businesses are permitted for use only
at special events lasting 14 calendar days or less. Permits must be obtained at
least 14 days prior to the event, and no tattoo or body-piercing procedures are
to be performed prior to a permit being issued. Permit holders are responsible
for ensuring that all other local agency regulations are complied with, such
as, but not limited to, zoning and business license requirements.
   (B)   Tattoos and/or body-piercings performed pursuant to this section shall
be done only from an enclosed vehicle such as a trailer or mobile home, having
an interior floor space of at least 100 square feet. No tattoos or body-
piercing procedures shall be performed outside of the enclosed vehicle.
   (C)   The mobile tattoo/body-piercing business shall be maintained in a
clean and sanitary condition at all times. Doors shall be self-closing and
tight-fitting. Operable windows shall have tight-fitting screens.
   (D)   Mobile tattoo/body-piercing businesses must have approved
sterilization equipment available, in accordance with all requirements of the
section on sterilization of equipment.
   (E)   The mobile tattoo and body-piercing business shall be used only for
the purpose of performing tattoos or body-piercing procedures. No habitation or
cooking is permitted inside the vehicle.
   (F)   The mobile tattoo and body-piercing business shall be equipped with an
equipment-washing sink and a separate hand-sink for the exclusive use of the
operator, for hand washing and preparing the client for the tattoo or body-
piercing procedures. The hand-sink shall be supplied with hot and cold running
water under pressure to a mixing type faucet, and antimicrobial liquid soap and
paper towels in dispensers. An adequate supply of potable water shall be
maintained for the mobile tattoo and body- piercing business at all times
during operation.
   (G)   All liquid wastes shall be stored in an adequate storage tank with
capacity at least 50% greater than the capacity of the onboard potable water
supply. Liquid wastes shall be disposed of at a site approved by the
Department.
   (H)   A hand-sink shall be supplied with hot and cold running water under
pressure to a mixing type faucet; antimicrobial liquid soap and paper towels in
dispensers.
   (I)   All tattoo/body-piercing operators working in a mobile tattoo/body-
piercing business must comply with the operator requirements of this code.
   (J)   No animals, except service animals of clients shall be allowed in the
mobile tattoo/body-piercing business at any time.
   (K)   Mobile tattoo/body-piercing businesses must receive an initial
inspection at a location specified by the Department prior to use to ensure
compliance with structural requirements. Additional inspections will be
performed at every event where the mobile tattoo/body-piercing is scheduled to
operate.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.36 TEMPORARY TATTOO AND BODY-PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements are that the temporary tattoo/body-piercing
operations are to comply with all aspects of the provisions relating to
temporary certificates, health, cleanliness and personal hygiene of operators,
practices and procedures for tattoo/body-piercing establishments and
notifications, as specified in §§
115.02 through
115.10, §§
115.12 through
115.17 and §§
115.30 through
115.34 of this regulation.
   (B)   Site requirements:
      (1)   Tattooing/body-piercing must be conducted within a building or
structure, having an interior floor space of at least 100 square feet, which
provides protection against the elements and dust, and is free of insects,
rodents, other nuisances or pests. The tattooing/body-piercing area is to be
separated by a partition from any retail sales or other activity which may
cause potential contamination of work surfaces;
      (2)   Adequate light and ventilation is to be provided at the work
location;
      (3)   Facilities shall have easy access to adequate toilet facilities and
a lavatory with hot and cold running water, as part of surrounding premises or
adjacent to the facility; and
      (4)   All needles or any other sharp objects which may have come into
contact with blood or blood products are to be disinfected by immersion or
autoclaved prior to placement in a sealed, rigid container for disposal by the
tattoo artist/body-piercer. All other wastes are to be removed and properly
disposed.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.37 OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS AND PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS.
   The following information shall be kept on file on the premises of a tattoo/
body-piercing establishment and available for inspection by the Department.
   (A)   The names of all operators/technicians in the establishment and their
exact duties, including the following information:
      (1)   Full names; date of birth; gender; home address; home/work phone
numbers; identification photos of all operators/technicians;
      (2)   Establishment name; hours of operation; owner’s name and address;
      (3)   A complete description of all body art procedures performed;
      (4)   An inventory of all instruments and body jewelry, all sharps and
all inks used for any and all body art procedures, including names of
manufactures and serial or lot numbers, if available or applicable; and
      (5)   A copy of these regulations.
   (B)   Permits shall be prominently displayed in the body art establishment
and shall not be defaced or altered in any manner.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform tattoo or body-piercing
procedures unless the procedures are performed in a tattoo body-piercing
establishment with a current permit.
   (D)   The operator must be a minimum of 18 years of age.
   (E)   Smoking, eating or drinking by anyone is prohibited in the area where
tattoos and body- piercings are performed.
   (F)   Operators shall refuse service to any person who, in the opinion of
the operator, is under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
   (G)   The operator shall maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness,
conform to hygienic practices and wear clean clothes when performing tattoo or
body-piercing procedures. Before performing tattoos or body-piercings, the
operator must thoroughly wash hands in hot running water with liquid
antimicrobial soap, then rinse hands and dry with disposable paper towels. This
shall be done as often as necessary to remove contaminants.
   (H)   In performing tattoos and body-piercing procedures, the operator shall
wear disposable medical gloves. The gloves shall be discarded, at a minimum,
after the completion of each procedure on an individual client.
   (I)   If, while performing a tattoo or body-piercing procedure the
operator’s glove is pierced, torn or otherwise contaminated, the procedures (in
divisions (G) and (H) above) shall be repeated immediately. The contaminated
gloves shall be immediately discarded and the hands washed thoroughly (see
division (G) above) before fresh pair of gloves is applied. Any item or other
instrument used for a tattoo or body-piercing which is contaminated during the
procedure shall be discarded and replaced immediately with new ones before the
procedure resumes.
   (J)   Contaminated waste, as defined in this code, which may release liquid
blood or body fluids when compressed or may release dried blood or body fluids
when handled must be placed in an approved “red” bag which is marked with the
international biohazard symbol. It must then be disposed of by a waste hauler
approved by the Department. Sharps ready for disposal shall be disposed of in
approved sharps containers. Contaminated waste which does not release liquid
blood or body fluids when compressed or does not release dried blood or body
fluids when handled may be placed in a covered receptacle and disposed of
through normal, approved disposal methods. Storage of contaminated waste on-
site shall not exceed the period specified by the Department or more than a
maximum of 30 days.
   (K)   No person shall perform any tattoo or body-piercing procedure upon a
person under the age of 18 years without the presence, consent and proper
identification of a parent, legal custodial parent or legal guardian. Nothing
in this section is intended to require an operator to perform any tattoo or
body- piercing procedure on a person under 18 years of age with parental or
guardian consent.
   (L)   Any skin or mucosa surface to receive a tattoo or body-piercing
procedure shall be free of rash, infection or any other visible pathological
condition.
   (M)   The skin of the operator shall be free of rash, infection or any other
visible pathological condition. No person or operator affected with boils,
infected wounds, open sores, abrasions, exudative lesions, acute respiratory
infection, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or jaundice shall work in any area of a
tattoo/body-piercing establishment in any capacity in which there is a
likelihood of contaminating tattoo or body-piercing equipment, supplies or
working surfaces with pathogenic organisms. Each tattoo artist and operator
should be able to provide the following information, upon request of the
Department: that each tattoo artist and operator has either completed or been
offered and declined, in writing, the Hepatitis B vaccination series; that
antibody testing has revealed that the employee is immune to Hepatitis B; or
that the vaccine is contraindicated for medical reasons.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.38 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ALL ESTABLISHMENTS WHICH OFFER A BODY-PIERCING
SERVICE TO THE PUBLIC.
   Procedures and practices for body-piercing:
   (A)   Piercings of minors will be permitted only with a legal guardian
present, and must comply with §§
115.04 and
115.05 of this chapter.
      (1)   Certain piercings forbidden (see division (EE) below). Both
guardian and child must read, understand and sign the release form.
      (2)   Both parties must provide valid identification. Both parties must
fully understand post piercing after-care suggestions.
   (B)   Piercing an obviously intoxicated person is prohibited;
   (C)   The use of properly configured, autoclave sterilization units on all
reusable items is mandatory. Monthly efficacy testing, via a “spore test”, is
mandatory.
      (1)   A sign, prominently posted, shall apprise the public of the
existence of the results of this monthly test and invite them to review the
results.
      (2)   “Dry” heat, Glass Bead or pressure cookers are not acceptable
methods of sterilization.
   (D)   Signage requesting patrons to refrain from removing their own jewelry
should be easily visible;
   (E)   Counter tops, displays and doorknobs must be non-porous and frequently
disinfected throughout the day and as needed. Disinfectant hand wipes such as
SaniDex® should be readily available for patrons’ use;
   (F)   Operators must attend and pass a certified CPR and basic first aid
class;
   (G)   Owners who have employees must implement OSHA Blood Borne Pathogens
Standard #1910.1030;
   (H)   An understanding of and vigilant use of cross contamination prevention
and infection control must be documented;
   (I)   Thorough hand washing, utilizing sufficient amounts of liquid anti-
bacterial soap (pump dispenser or better) and running water must be performed
immediately prior and immediately after each individual service. Single-use,
disposable paper products are to be used. Enclosed “C” fold paper towels are
preferred over standard exposed rolls;
   (J)   New, clean and fresh disposable medical gloves are to be worn for each
new service. Gloves must be changed after each occurrence of contamination.
Gloves should be stored in a very clean, closed container when not in use;
   (K)   All needles must come individually bagged and autoclave sterilized,
used on one client and one client only and immediately disposed of in an OSHA-
approved Sharps container. Yearly removal of full (two-thirds), sealed labeled
containers, by a Medical Waste Disposal Service, which follows Indiana
Infectious Waste Rule (410 I.A.C. 1-3), must be documented. Reuse of piercing
needles is strictly prohibited;
   (L)   After soaking in an enzymatic detergent such as Enzol® (or equivalent)
for no less than ten minutes, used reusable tools must be fully submerged in an
Ultra Sonic Cleaner for no less than 15 minutes, then air dried prior to
autoclaving;
   (M)   All reusable, stainless steel instruments must be autoclaved in
appropriate, dated, sealed bags with indicator strips fully visible. Bags left
unopened, in a closed container, for longer than 30 days, must be re-
autoclaved. Immediately after use, the tool is to be placed in a lidded, non-
porous container to await detergent soak, ultrasonic cleaning, drying and
bagging, prior to autoclaving. This container must be disinfected at least
daily;
   (N)   A hospital-level, hard surface disinfectant such as MadaCide® (or
equivalent) must be employed on all involved surfaces prior to every
individual’s piercing session. All involved surfaces must be non- porous and in
excellent repair. If spray dispensers are used, spray should be directed into a
clean, disposable paper towel; then, the towel should be used to disinfect the
surface. Impregnated towelettes, Sani-Cloth®, are preferred for this
application;
   (O)   All supplies that come into contact with the piercing station should
be in “single portion” form. Including, but not limited to, anti-bacterial
ointments, iodine swabs, alcohol wipes and the like. These packages must be
wiped down with a hospital-level, hard surface disinfectant and air dried,
prior to being stored in very clean, closed containers;
   (P)   Floors in the piercing area must be non-porous, of solid, durable
construction and disinfected on a regular basis, and as needed. Carpeting is
prohibited;
   (Q)   All oral piercing shall be preceded by the client performing a one
minute, vigorous application of an antiseptic mouthwash such as Listerine®;
   (R)   All other pre-piercing sites must be thoroughly cleaned with an
iodine-based product such as Betadine® (or equivalent) for one full minute. All
traces of iodine must be removed before the client departs. On individuals with
iodine sensitivity, Benzethonium Chloride (or equivalent) solution is an
acceptable substitute;
   (S)   Corks and rubber bands must be autoclaved. Single-use packaging is
preferred. Bulk sterilized supplies must be kept in a very clean, closed
container, opened and touched with fresh gloves only;
   (T)   All insertable jewelry is to be sterilized (individually is preferred)
and kept in a sterile, closed container. Sterilized jewelry is to be soaked in
a hospital-level, hard surface disinfectant, for no less than ten minutes prior
to insertion. Jewelry must be thoroughly dried before insertion. Jewelry
previously worn by anyone other than the pierce must be autoclave processed;
   (U)   All jewelry is to be made of high quality 14k solid gold, surgical
grade stainless steel (316L series), niobium, titanium, platinum or inert
plastics. No silver, gold-plated or gold-filled jewelry is to be inserted in
fresh piercings. Reasonable requests for non-commercial reasons, to divulge the
manufacturer of the jewelry for sale, should be met;
   (V)   Sterilized items, in unopened bags, must be left in the autoclave to
dry. The door on the autoclave may be left slightly ajar to facilitate drying.
Once dry, using clean and fresh gloves, bagged tools must be placed in a very
clean, closed container;
   (W)   A separate, dedicated area must be provided for the preparation,
cleaning and disinfection of tools and equipment;
   (X)   A service sink, with hot and cold running water, is to be separated
from the above area. Wrist, elbow, infrared or foot operated fixtures must be
installed. This sink is never to be used for food or drink preparation;
   (Y)   Disposable table paper should be provided and changed between clients;
   (Z)   Privacy screens or devices must be made available at the patron’s
request;
   (AA)   Good ventilation must be available. The use of air “scrubbers” (HEPA
filters) is encouraged;
   (BB)   All restrooms available to the public must be kept clean and
disinfected regularly and as needed;
   (CC)   Written detailed post-piercing aftercare suggestions must be
provided;
   (DD)   Piercers shall maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness and
wear clean clothing. Piercers should refrain from piercing while under the
influence of medications that may cause drowsiness. Piercers should use
discretion when considering whether to work while ill; and
   (EE)   Penile piercings which invade the urethra and commonly known as
Prince Albert, Ampallang and Apadravya are forbidden.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.39 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Physicians licensed by the state who utilize tattooing or body-
piercing procedures as part of patient treatment are exempt from these
regulations.
   (B)   Ear lobe piercings are exempt.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 115.40 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Establishment permit.
      (1)   No person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, business
trust, corporation or any organized group of persons may operate a body art
establishment unless it has received a body art establishment permit from the
Department.
      (2)   Any person operating a body art establishment shall obtain a permit
from the Department, annually, with beginning/ending permit time frames and
fees to be set by the Department.
      (3)   The applicant shall pay a reasonable fee as set by the Department
for each body art establishment permit.
      (4)   A body art establishment permit shall not be transferable from one
place or person to another.
      (5)   A current body art establishment permit shall be posted in a
prominent and conspicuous area where it may be readily observed by clients.
   (B)   Operator permit.
      (1)   No person shall practice body art procedures without first
obtaining a permit from the Department. The Department shall set a reasonable
fee for the permits.
      (2)   Application for operator permits shall include: name; date of
birth; sex; residence; mailing address; phone number; place(s) of employment as
an operator; training and/or experience; proof of attendance at a blood-borne
pathogen training program (or equivalent), given or approved by the Department.
      (3)   Demonstration of knowledge of infectious disease control including
waste disposal, and washing techniques, sterilizing equipment operation and
methods, and sanitation/disinfection/sterilization methods and techniques;
facility safety and sanitation knowledge of the above subjects may also be
demonstrated through submission of documentation of attendance/completion of
courses or successful completion of an examination approved or given by the
Department with a passing grade of 70, attained prior to issuance of the
operator permit.
      (4)   No operator permit shall be issued unless, following reasonable
investigation by the Department, the body art operator has demonstrated
compliance with the provisions of this section and all other provisions of this
code.
      (5)   All operator permits shall be conditioned upon continued compliance
with the provisions of this section, as well as all applicable provisions of
this code.
      (6)   All operator permits shall be posted in a prominent and conspicuous
area where it may be readily observed by clients.
   (C)   Temporary establishment/operator permit. Temporary establishment and,
when required, operator permits may be issued for body art services provided
outside of the physical site of a certified facility for the purposes of
product demonstration, industry trade shows or for educational reasons.
      (1)   Temporary operator and/or establishment permits will not be issued
unless:
         (a)   The applicant furnishes proof of compliance with sections above,
relating to operator’s permits;
         (b)   The applicant is currently affiliated with a fixed location or
permanent facility which, where applicable, is permitted by the appropriate
state and/or local jurisdiction; and
         (c)   The temporary site complies with temporary establishment
requirements, of this regulation.
      (2)   In lieu of attendance at a blood-borne pathogens training program
approved or given by the Department with-in the past three years as specified
above, the applicant may furnish proof of attendance at equivalent training
which is acceptable to the Department.
      (3)   Temporary permits expire after five days or the conclusion of the
special event, whichever is less.
      (4)   Temporary operator and/or establishment license will not be issued
unless the applicant has paid a reasonable fee as set by the Department.
      (5)   The temporary establishment/operator license(s) shall not be
transferable from one place or person to another.
      (6)   The temporary establishment/operator licenses shall be posted in a
prominent and conspicuous area where they may be readily observed by patrons.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.41 GENERAL PERMIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Business. Each tattoo/body-piercing parlor operation shall obtain a
permit from the County Health Department. The permit shall provide the name and
address of the owner of the business and name and address of each and every
tattoo/body-piercing artist located at each site. The cost for this permit
shall be $200 as determined by the County Board of Health and shall not be
transferable. In addition, each tattoo/body-piercing artist, excluding the
business owner/artist, will be required to pay a fee of $50 annually. The
permit expires on December 31 of each year. Any holder of a permit shall be
subject to inspection as set forth herein. The County Health Department shall
provide the appropriate forms for this permit. The permit shall be posted at
the tattoo/body-piercing parlor in the place where the tattoos and/or body-
piercing are performed and clearly visible to the public.
   (B)   Temporary or mobile business. Each temporary or mobile tattoo/body-
piercing parlor shall also obtain a permit from the County Health Department.
The permit shall provide the name and address of the owner of the business and
the name and address of each and every tattoo/body-piercing artist located at
each business. The permit cost for in-county establishments shall be $500 as
determined by the County Board of Health and shall not be transferable. The
permit cost for out-of-county establishments shall be $500 as determined by the
County Board of Health and shall not be transferable. The permit expires on the
last day of any one event that the permit is purchased for, not to exceed five
days for any one event. Any holder of a permit shall be subject to inspection
as set forth herein. The County Health Department shall provide the appropriate
forms for this permit. The permit shall be posted at the tattoo/body-piercing
business in the place where the tattoos and/or body-piercings are performed,
and clearly visible to the public.
   (C)   Owner/operator. In the event that a tattoo/body-piercing parlor is a
sole proprietorship and the owner shall also perform tattooing or body-piercing
for the business, the owner shall only be required to obtain a business permit
as described in this section.
   (D)   Pro ratio of fees. In the event that a business shall apply for a
permit any time prior to July 1, of any year, they shall be responsible for the
total annual fee as described in this section. In the event that a business
shall apply for a permit any time after July 1, they shall be required to pay
one half of the annual fee. Pro ratio of fees does not apply to temporary or
mobile tattoo/body-piercing parlors. All permits shall expire on December 31 of
the year in which they were issued.
   (E)   Non-transferable. No permit issued to a tattoo/body-piercing
establishment is transferable.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 115.42 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Health Officer may suspend or revoke the permit of any tattoo/body-
piercing business for any period of time for any violation of this chapter,
state or federal regulations concerning blood-borne pathogens, tattoos, body-
piercing or work place regulations (OSHA). The suspension and/or revocation
shall be effective upon issuance by the Health Officer. The establishment may
have the permit reinstated upon compliance with this chapter, state or federal
regulations concerning blood-borne pathogens, tattoos, body-piercing or work
place regulations (OSHA) and to the satisfactions of the Health Officer.
Appeals of orders of revocation shall be conducted pursuant to I.C. 4-21.5-3-
1 et seq. The Board of Health shall conduct administrative hearings concerning
the suspension or revocation of any permit issued herein as set forth in I.C.
4-21.5-3 et seq.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 115.43 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The County Health Department shall conduct inspections of each and
every tattoo/body-piercing parlor located in the county. The Health Department
shall conduct a minimum of one inspection per year. Additional inspections may
be conducted by the Health Department as they determine and/or in response to
complaints submitted. The results of the inspections shall be provided to each
operator. Violations noted by the Health Department shall be corrected
immediately. The Department shall conduct follow-up inspections to determine
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The County Health Officer may bring an action in the circuit or
superior court to enforce this chapter. The Health Officer shall be entitled to
recover all costs and expenses associated with any action for enforcement of
this chapter including reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   If an operator of a tattoo/body-piercing establishment shall fail to obtain
a business permit prior to conducting their business, or at any time after one
has been issued but has expired, the establishment may be subject to a fine of
not more than $500. Each day the establishment shall be in violation of this
chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2008-3, passed 3-24-2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND MORALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Reward; vandalism of county property
   
130.02   Reward; destruction, removal or possession of county highway signs
§ 130.01 REWARD; VANDALISM OF COUNTY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It has come to the attention of the County Board of Commissioners that
the county is expending a large amount of tax money on vandalized county
property, including, but not necessarily limited to, traffic control signs,
roadway identification signs and lenses, light fixtures and bulbs at the county
airport.
   (B)   The County Board of Commissioners have therefore determined that there
shall be an amount set aside from the public funds to serve as a reward for any
information given by any individual which leads to the conviction of any
individual(s) who participate in, cause or are otherwise present when vandalism
of property belonging to the county occurs.
   (C)   Vandalism, as set forth in division (B) above, shall mean the
damaging, destruction, removal and/or theft of any property belonging to the
county (regardless of which department, subdivision or location of the
property).
   (D)   The county will not disclose the identity of any individual who
provides information which leads to the arrest and conviction of any vandal.
   (E)   The amount of the reward will be at the discretion of the County Board
of Commissioners, but shall not exceed the sum of $500.
(Ord. 93-5, passed 7-12-1993)
§ 130.02 REWARD; DESTRUCTION, REMOVAL OR POSSESSION OF COUNTY HIGHWAY SIGNS.
   (A)   A reward in the amount of $1,000 shall be paid to any individual(s)
who provide(s) information to any law enforcement agency which leads to the
filing of charges against any individual, adult or juvenile, for the
destruction, removal or theft of any sign belonging to the county.
   (B)   This section is being passed by the County Commissioners in an attempt
to apprehend individuals responsible for the destruction, removal or theft of
county highway signs and to deter other individuals from that action, and would
be paid to any individual supplying the information as hereinabove set forth,
notwithstanding the fact that the county may subsequently be reimbursed by the
perpetrator through the appropriate criminal or juvenile actions which may be
initiated against the individual(s).
(Ord. 96-4, passed 9-9-1996)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND MORALS
Section
   
131.01   Sale and use of substances containing synthetic cannabinoids
§ 131.01 SALE AND USE OF SUBSTANCES CONTAINING SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids ("products"), such as K2/
Spice, or similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical
compounds:
      (1)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2 methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a, 7, 10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-01, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole, also known as JWH-073; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative shall not be sold,
marketed or offered for sale within the county.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids ("products") may not be
burned, incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased or controlled by the county.
   (C)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-4. Accordingly, this section shall be enforced by the provisions of
I.C. 34-28-5.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 9-13-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   SUBDIVISION ROADWAYS
      
151.   ADDRESS NUMBERING
      
152.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
153.   PLAN COMMISSION
      
154.   ZONING ORDINANCE
      
155.   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 150: SUBDIVISION ROADWAYS
Section
   
150.01   Acceptance of existing subdivision undedicated roadways
§ 150.01 ACCEPTANCE OF EXISTING SUBDIVISION UNDEDICATED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Since the passage on July 6, 1987 of Ord. 87-1, it has come to the
attention of the Board of Commissioners of the county, by and through the
investigation of the existing roadways in subdivisions which were never
dedicated and/or accepted by the county, that there are certain provisions in
Ord. 87-1 which may be harsh in its application and contrary to the interests
of the residents of the county or placed upon the present owners of any
subdivision affected (those having an undedicated/unaccepted roadway) that
would make the application of that ordinance a financial impossibility for the
landowners.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of the county shall accordingly accept all
existing paved streets and roadways within any subdivision in the confines of
the county outside of the corporate boundaries of the City of Washington,
provided that all landowners within the subdivision which border on an affected
roadway (being an undedicated/unaccepted subdivision roadway) to the following
terms and conditions:
      (1)   The county shall have a 50-foot right-of-way to maintain drainage
ditches (25 feet from the centerline on both sides of the road) and the road
right-of-way shall be in writing signed by the present owners of the real
estate which shall thereafter be recorded in the office of the County Recorder;
      (2)   The County Highway Department will only maintain the pavement to
its current condition, which includes ditching, snow removal and patching, but
this does not necessarily include the cost of resurfacing;
      (3)   The County Highway Department and the Board of County Commissioners
reserve the right, as they have on all county roads, to determine when the
point is reached when it is no longer economically feasible to patch the
existing pavement and decide whether or not to turn it back to gravel or stone;
      (4)   The county will not be responsible to maintain dust control on the
streets or roads once they have been turned back to gravel or stone;
      (5)   Due to limited highway funds, it may be necessary for the
landowners to incur all costs for the resurfacing of the streets or road per
county highway specifications in effect, at that time;
      (6)   The road shall have a minimum width of 18 feet; and
      (7)   The County Highway Department shall be notified of the construction
date so that the engineer can supervise the work.
   (C)   Any subdivision which presently has an existing gravel or stone
roadway which has yet to be dedicated and/or accepted by the county shall meet
the following specifications:
      (1)   The county shall have a 50-foot right-of-way to maintain drainage
ditches (25 feet from the centerline on both sides of the road) and the road
right-of-way shall be in writing signed by the present owners of the real
estate which shall thereafter be recorded in the office of the County Recorder;
      (2)   The road shall have a minimum width of 18 feet;
      (3)   Each landowner must install the drainage structure recommended by
the County Highway Engineer;
      (4)   If the present subdivision road consists of stone or gravel, then
enough stone (#53) shall be added and compacted with a roller to form a base
six inches deep. The minimum surface treatment shall be a double chip and seal;
      (5)   The County Highway Department shall be notified of the construction
date so that the engineer can supervise the work;
      (6)   The County Highway Department will only maintain the pavement to
its current condition, which includes ditching, snow removal and patching, but
this does not necessarily include the cost of resurfacing;
      (7)   The County Highway Department and the Board of County Commissioners
reserve the right, as they have on all county roads, to determine when the
point is reached when it is no longer economically feasible to patch the
existing pavement and decide whether or not to turn it back to gravel or stone;
and
      (8)   The county will not be responsible to maintain dust control on the
streets or roads once they have been turned back to gravel or stone.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners of the county further reaffirm the
guidelines and specifications adopted by this Board on April 11, 1985, in the
accepted and resolved policy title Minimum Specification for Paving Street in
Subdivision shall apply to any and all subdivision roadway under construction
at this time or planned or not yet under construction and this section shall
apply only and solely to roadways of previously platted and accepted
subdivisions whose roadways were either not dedicated or if dedicated not
accepted by this Board and this section is hereby limited to same.
(Ord. 88-6, passed 12-19-1988)
CHAPTER 151: ADDRESS NUMBERING
Section
   
151.01   Formal enactment
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Administration of the uniform numbering system
   
151.04   Implementation of the uniform numbering system
   
151.05   Enforcement
   
151.06   Effective date
§ 151.01 FORMAL ENACTMENT.
   A plan for the orderly and systematic numbering of houses and structures
located within the jurisdictional area of the county is hereby enacted
(hereinafter “uniform numbering system”). Any and all ordinances previously
adopted by the Board of Commissioners regarding the numbering of houses and
structures are hereby repealed and superseded by this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS PLANNING AUTHORITY. The Daviess County Commissioners and the Daviess
County Assessor shall serve as the coordinating body in the county, with the
responsibility for assigning house and other structure addresses within its
jurisdiction. The agency shall coordinate its addressing efforts with the
County Sheriff, local postmasters and large mailers in the county such as
utilities, government and the like.
   BASE LINES. Existing recognizable lines, which divide the county into
quadrants or sectors.
   BLOCK INTERVAL. The hundred number interval is the distance between grid
lines, or the point where the next highest block number designation is used.
   CUSTOMER (ADDRESSEE). A family, individual, residence, business or industry
which receives mail at a delivery point.
   FRONTAGE INTERVAL. The distance in foot frontage along a street, highway or
county road which is used to assign consecutive property numbers, beginning
from the nearest grid or base line. The address system used by the county
assumes a frontage interval of 10.56 feet.
   GRID LINES. Imaginary lines or actual county roads which are located a
specific distance from and perpendicular or parallel to base lines. These lines
indicate the point where block numbers change from 100 to the next higher
hundred. GRID LINES are used to standardize the numbering of parallel blocks at
the same distance from the base lines.
   LOT. A lot is a designated parcel, tract, development or area of land which
either is now being or will be used eventually for construction of a structure.
   PRIMARY ADDRESS NUMBER. The numeric or alphanumeric component of a city-type
address which proceeds the street or road name or number.
   STRUCTURE. A residential home, apartment building, business or commercial
building, industrial or manufacturing building, or a publicly owned building
which fronts onto a public or private street or road.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 151.03 ADMINISTRATION OF THE UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Administrative office. In the unincorporated areas of the county, the
responsibility for the issuance of street addresses shall be assigned to the
Assessor. The County Assessor shall issue and keep a permanent record of all
issued property addresses within its jurisdiction and share the addresses with
local postal authorities, government offices, schools and E-911 personnel.
Determination of county road numbers or names and changes to same shall be the
sole responsibility of the County Commissioners. The County Commissioners shall
have final approval in the naming of streets in platted subdivisions, mobile
home parks, commercial or industrial business parks and the like, under its
jurisdiction. Local incorporated communities shall have final approval in the
naming of roads and subdivision streets located within their corporate
boundaries.
   (B)   Advantages. A street numbering system and corresponding property
addresses provide individual structures with an exact geographic location in
the county. City-type street/road addresses are necessary in order to provide a
structure with a specific and more accurate identification for efficient mail
delivery; to provide an easily identifiable geographic reference point for the
quick dispatch of police, fire and emergency rescue equipment; to provide
utility companies with a permanent address record for billing and service calls
tied to a specific structure; and to provide ease of location, identification
for friends, service vehicles or other individuals trying to locate a specific
structure, or a county road.
   (C)   Conformity. From the effective date of this chapter, the numbering of
all houses and other structures located on lots or parcels of land abutting
public or private streets or roads within the jurisdictional area of the County
Commissioners shall be accomplished in conformity with the uniform numbering
system. At the time of issuance of any permit for construction of a house or
structure, an address number shall be assigned to the house or structure by the
County Assessor. The number shall be included on the permit, and no permit
authorizing the occupancy of a home or structure shall be issued and no final
inspection of a building performed for the purpose of permitting its occupancy
shall be deemed complete unless the house or structure displays the officially
assigned number in full compliance with the standards of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 151.04 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   The grid coordinate system. The county has structured the numbering of
its road system and the issuance of property addresses based on the Lyman/
Purdue street numbering system. The system is better known as the grid
coordinate system. The system utilizes two base lines, which run at approximate
right angles to each other to divide the county into quadrants. Most of the
county roads are numbered based on their distance from the north-south and
east-west base lines. Each mile portion of roadway becomes a “block” for
uniform numbering purposes.
   (B)   Base lines.
      (1)   The general rule shall be 1,000 addresses per mile, except in
certain areas where the irregular direction of the county highways makes
variations necessary. “Odd” numbers shall be used on the south and west sides
of streets/roads and “even” numbers on the north and east sides of streets/
roads.
      (2)   Street addresses are to be assigned based on a measurement of the
distance from the nearest grid line to the main access way or drive to the
structure. A structure shall always be addressed to the street/road where the
main access way intersects.
   (C)   County road numbers and names. Existing posted county street/road
numbers or names will be used to delineate an assumed distance in feet from a
base line or each other (grid lines) even though a true measurement to the road
is not exactly the distance stated on the road sign. All address measurements
will be taken from the middle of an intersection.
   (D)   Property numbering intervals. Street and road addresses are assigned
in increasing order from each base and grid line. In the county, 1,000
potential property addresses exist for each 5,280 feet (one mile) of distance
from the base lines.
   (E)   Determining a property address. An official street address shall
contain no more than five digits with the first digit, or the first two digits
if the structure is located ten or more miles from the north-south baseline,
indicating the milepost or distance from the base lines. The second or third
digit shall indicate the block number, which will change each 528 linear feet.
The last two digits indicate the number of 10.56-foot intervals from the
structure to the nearest block or grid line.
   (F)   Requirements for the posting of address numbers. The owner or occupant
of a house or structure located within the jurisdictional area of the County
Commissioners shall post officially assigned numbers in English, using Arabic
(not Roman) numerals at a minimum of four inches in height and made of
reflective, durable weatherproof material, of a color that stands out
distinctly against its background. The official number shall be placed on the
house or business structure where it may easily be seen when approaching the
house or business.
      (1)   Three-inch lettering shall also be placed on both sides and one-
inch lettering on the front of a mailbox, if a mailbox is used (sized and
positioned according to postal regulations), or on a post by the roadway if the
house or structure is not visible from a road or if the house or building is
more than 100 feet from a road.
      (2)   If mailboxes are placed closely side by side in a way so that
numbers on the sides of the mailboxes cannot be seen, the numbers need be
placed only on the front of each mailbox, and the individual houses or other
structures should be identified using house numbers or appropriately placed
road posts.
      (3)   Houses or structures that were numbered prior to the effective date
of this chapter shall be renumbered if necessary to comply with the uniform
numbering system and so that numerical harmony throughout an area or areas is
achieved. The Assessor’s office shall authorize these changes.
   (G)   Requirements for obtaining addresses. In no case shall an individual
or business be permitted to assign an address to their property or a structure
on that property. Addressing is the sole responsibility of the County
Assessor’s office and the local incorporated cities and towns in the county.
The postal services shall only recognize addresses issued by these agencies. No
public utility shall service a location until an address has been obtained.
   (H)   Incorporated cities and towns. The County Commissioners and the County
Assessor do not have political jurisdiction over the implementation of
numbering systems within the incorporated cities and towns in the county.
Numbering in these communities shall be the responsibility of the local plan
commission, town board or the city council. However, the County Commissioners
may require that city-type addresses be implemented in these communities for
purposes of defining structures for E-911 identification. All structures in the
county shall be required to have city-type property addresses including those
in incorporated communities. The rural route and box system now in place in
some incorporated communities shall be eliminated and city-type addresses shall
be assigned to all structures in the communities by July 15, 2005.
   (I)   Notifications of local agencies. The County Assessor’s office shall
provide a uniform system of notification of the issuance of numbers or names
and the renumbering of houses and structures. When possible, notification shall
be made reasonably ahead of impending changes so as to allow interested groups
and agencies to plan and to prepare for the proposed changes. The County
Assessor shall keep accurate records and shall, from time to time, prepare and
make available to the County Commissioners a report of the status of the
implementation of the uniform numbering system.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 151.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for injunction to restrain
any person, firm or corporation who takes down, alters, defaces, destroys or
conceals any number assigned to or placed upon any building in compliance with
this chapter, or who places or substitutes or permits to be placed or
substituted upon any building an erroneous or improper number not in compliance
with this chapter, or who allows to be retained upon any building an erroneous
or improper number not in compliance with this chapter. The Board of
Commissioners may institute a suit for mandatory injunction directing a person,
firm or corporation to correct any violation of the provisions of this chapter.
If the Board of Commissioners is successful in any suit, the defendant or
respondent shall bear the costs of the action, including reasonable attorney’s
fees.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 151.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All structures in the county shall have their new addresses posted on their
structure, mailbox or mailbox post by October 15, 2005. Customers of the postal
service shall have until October 15, 2005, to communicate their new addresses
to all of their mailers.
(Ord. 2005-3, passed 4-11-2005)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Findings, purpose and objectives
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.04   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
152.05   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.06   Compliance
   
152.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.08   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
152.09   Interpretation
   
152.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.11   Increased cost of compliance (ICC)
Administration
   
152.25   Designation of Administrator
   
152.26   Permit procedures
   
152.27   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.43   Critical facility
   
152.44   Identified floodways
   
152.45   Standards for identified fringe
   
152.46   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodways/fringe
Variance Procedures
   
152.60   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.61   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.62   Variance procedures
   
152.63   Conditions for variances
   
152.64   Variance notifications
   
152.65   Historic structures
   
152.66   Special conditions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The state legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 and
I.C. 14-28-4 granted the power to local government units to control land use
within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the Board of Commissioners of the county
does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve the uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
      (6)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures
and their contents in the county by fulfilling the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as
water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges
located in floodplains;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood prone areas in a manner so as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
      (7)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is
in a flood area.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination of both. In A ZONES, flood
waters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM or FHBM. The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. Zone A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. This
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (3)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads or similar projects;
      (4)   Construction of flood control structures, such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
      (5)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
      (6)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (7)   Storage of materials; and
      (8)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   DEVELOPMENT. Does not include activities such as the maintenance of existing
structures, and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing roads; or
gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not involve
filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings or columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.  Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FFG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. See FREEBOARD.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power which control development in
flood prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ORDINANCE and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This CERTIFICATION must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP (AS RELATED TO VARIANCES OF THIS CHAPTER). The exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Board of
Commissioners requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual and peculiar
to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an EXCEPTIONAL HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1, 1997, will
include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars;
      (5)   The top of the first floor of a structure constructed with a crawl
space, provided that the lowest point of the interior grade is at or above the
BFE and construction meets requirements of division (6)(a) below; or
      (6)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters,
by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total net area of one square inch for every one square foot of
enclosed area. The bottom of all the openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (b)   The enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned
by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel, and the
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value) or adjusted
assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929, a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the letter “A” is
subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter “A” is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31,1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
152.04 below. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, 1%
ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event for
which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each flood event.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-
prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).  Those lands within the jurisdictions of
the county subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the
county are generally identified as such on the flood hazard boundary map, dated
May 5, 1978, as well as any future updates, amendments or revisions, prepared
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date. (These
areas are shown on a FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means the first placement or permanent construction of a structure
(including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footing, installation of piles, construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation for placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
      (2)   Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
      (3)   For substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until a time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD) (other datum where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
      (1)   Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B ZONES on older FIRMs)
designate areas subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being
equaled or exceeded (the 500-year flood).
      (2)   Unshaded X ZONES (C ZONES on older FIRMs) designate areas where the
annual exceedance probability of flooding is less than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the severity
or type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B AND C.)
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.03 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.04 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (B)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party
submitting the detailed engineering study needs to replace existing data with
better data and submit it to the State Department of Natural Resources for
review and approval.
   (C)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each of
the SFHAs delineated as an “A Zone” on the FHBM of the county, dated May 5,
1978, shall be according to the best data available as provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.06 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.08 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA and the
floodplain regulations will not be applied. The property owner should be
advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.09 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the county, the State Department of Natural Resources,
or the state, for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.11 INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).
   In order for buildings to qualify for a claim payment under ICC coverage as
a “repetitive loss structure”, the National Reform Act of 1994 requires that
the building be covered by a contract for flood insurance and incur flood-
related damages on two occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of
the event for which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing
the flood damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value
of the building at the time of each flood event.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.25 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Board of Commissioners of the county hereby appoints the County
Floodplain Coordinator to administer and implement the provisions of this
chapter, and is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.26 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any nonresidential
structure will be floodproofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or related as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, or floodproofing, it shall
be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or
floodproofed elevation, as built.
         (b)   The certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by the same.
         (c)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
         (d)   Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification
shall be at the permit holder’s risk. (The Floodplain Administrator shall
review the lowest floor and floodproofing elevation survey data submitted.)
         (e)   The permit holder shall correct deficiencies detected by the
review before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the
survey or failure to make the corrections required hereby, shall be cause to
issue a stop work order for the project.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.27 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
152.44 and
152.46(A) below, and maintain a record of the authorization (either copy of
actual permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of the permits are to be maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
the notifications to FEMA;
      (6)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map amendment
(LOMA), letters of map revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain
analysis and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit
documents and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this chapter;
      (7)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map revision (LOMR) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (8)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (9)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
152.26 above;
      (10)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
152.26 above;
      (11)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (12)   Stop work orders:
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease; and
         (b)   The notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (13)   Revocation of permits:
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the ordinance, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based; and
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if the nonconformity is not further, extended or replaced.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.41 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to the requirements of §
152.40 above, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure:
         (a)   Where the cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds
50% of the value of the existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
and
         (b)   With a previous addition or improvement constructed since the
community’s first floodplain ordinance.
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure, where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage; and
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
   (B)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor; including
basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation).
      (2)   Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or nonresidential structure (or
manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation). Structures located
in all “A Zones” may be floodproofed in lieu of being elevated if done in
accordance with the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood.
      (2)   The structure design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts from debris or ice.
The certification shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
152.27 above.
      (3)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
that include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall be designed to preclude finished living
space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (2)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal to in elevation or higher
than the exterior foundation grade);
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in
both directions;
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (e)   The interior portion of the enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection grade must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Where elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the
conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to
the structure’s originally approved design, shall be presented as a condition
of issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent landfill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the Standard
Proctor Test method.
      (2)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the FPG.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for structures constructed with a crawlspace. A residential
or nonresidential structure may be constructed with a crawlspace located below
the flood protection grade provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection grade shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. Provide a minimum of two openings having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of
enclosed area. The bottom of the openings shall be no more than one foot above
grade;
      (3)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection grade;
      (4)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four
feet at any point;
      (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event;
      (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection grade must be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
      (7)   The interior grade of the crawlspace must be at or above the base
flood elevation.
   (G)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
so that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely anchored to
an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and
lateral movement. This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site:
         (a)   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision that has not been substantially damaged by a flood; and
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days; and
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.42 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.43 CRITICAL FACILITY.
   (A)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent
possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical
facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site
is available.
   (B)   Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the lowest
floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site.
   (C)   Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into flood waters. Access
routes elevated to or above the FPG shall be provided to all critical
facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.44 IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
152.04 above, are areas designated as floodways.
   (B)   The floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
flood waters, which carry debris, potential projectiles and has erosion
potential.
   (C)   If the site is in an identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources and apply for a permit for construction in a floodway.
   (D)   Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for construction in a
floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources is required prior to
the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation, deposit,
construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes
land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and paving and
the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the structure.
However, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to existing
(lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. I.C. 14-28-1-26 allows
construction of non-substantial additions/improvements to residences in a non-
boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in the
floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources. Please note that if
fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior approval
(construction in a floodway permit) for the fill is required from the State
Department of Natural Resources.)
   (E)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the State Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in the floodway. Once a permit for
construction in a floodway has been issued by the State Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
152.40 through
152.46 of this chapter have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot
be less restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by
the State Department of Natural Resources. However, a community’s more
restrictive regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (F)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory flood more
than 0.14 of one foot.
   (G)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the county shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.45 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
152.40 through
152.46 of this chapter have been met. The key provision is that the top of the
lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or
above the FPG.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.46 SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR FLOODWAYS/
FRINGE.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment;
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment citing the 100-year flood elevation and the recommended
flood protection grade has been received from the State Department of Natural
Resources; and
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, a floodplain development permit may be
issued provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the State Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in §§
152.40 through
152.46 of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodway, fringe and 100-year flood elevation for the site; and
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
152.40 through
152.46 of this chapter have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not increase flood damages
or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 152.60 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The County Commissioners shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.61 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal the decision to the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.62 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon the applications, the Board of Commissioners shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment of
transport of the flood waters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.63 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
152.44 or
152.46(A) of this chapter may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
152.44 or
152.46(A) of this chapter will require a permit from the State Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
152.41, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. See §
152.64 below.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request. See §
152.64 below.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.64 VARIANCE NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   The construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. A copy of the notice shall by recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report the variances
issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.65 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.66 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
152.60 through
152.66, and the purposes of this chapter, the County Board of Commissioners may
attach the conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   All violations shall be considered a common nuisance and shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur fore each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The County Floodplain Administrator shall inform the owner that any
like violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2008-8, passed 11-24-2008)
CHAPTER 153: PLAN COMMISSION
Section
   
153.01   Establishment
   
153.02   Members
   
153.03   Qualifications of citizen members
   
153.04   Term
   
153.05   Removal of citizen members
   
153.06   Vacancies
   
153.07   Statutory provisions incorporated by reference
§ 153.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes the County Advisory Plan
Commission, hereinafter referred to as the “Plan Commission”.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-27-2009)
§ 153.02 MEMBERS.
   The Plan Commission shall consist of nine members, who shall be appointed as
follows:
   (A)   One member appointed by the Board of Commissioners from its
membership;
   (B)   One member appointed by the County Council from its membership;
   (C)   The County Surveyor, or his or her designee;
   (D)   The County Agricultural Extension Educator; and
   (E)   Five citizen members appointed by the Board of Commissioners, of whom
not more than three may be of the same political party.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-27-2009)
§ 153.03 QUALIFICATIONS OF CITIZEN MEMBERS.
   (A)   Citizen members must be residents of unincorporated areas of the
county.
   (B)   Each citizen member shall be appointed because of the member’s
knowledge and experience in community affairs, the member’s awareness of the
social, economic, agricultural and industrial problems of the area, and the
member’s interest in the development and integration of the area.
   (C)   A citizen member may not hold other elective or appointive office in
municipal, county or state government.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-27-2009)
§ 153.04 TERM.
   (A)   The term of office of a member who is appointed from the membership of
the Board of Commissioners or the County Council is coextensive with the
member’s term of office unless the Board or Council appoints another member to
serve as its representative at its first regular meeting in any year.
   (B)   The citizen members shall initially be appointed for the following
terms of office: one member for a term of one year; one member for a term of
two years; one member for a term of three years; and two members for a term of
four years.
      (1)   Each member’s term expires on the first Monday of January of the
first, second, third or fourth year, respectively, after the year of the
member’s appointment.
      (2)   When an initial term of office of a citizen member expires, each
new appointment of a citizen member is for a term of four years.
      (3)   A citizen member serves until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified. A citizen member is eligible for reappointment.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-27-2009)
§ 153.05 REMOVAL OF CITIZEN MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may remove a citizen member of the Plan
Commission for cause.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners must mail notice of the removal, along with
written reasons for the removal, to the citizen member at his or her residence
of address.
   (C)   A citizen member who is removed may, within 30 days after receiving
notice of the removal, appeal the removal to the Circuit or Superior Court of
the county.
   (D)   The court may, pending the outcome of the appeal, order the removal or
stay the removal of the citizen member.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-27-2009)
§ 153.06 VACANCIES.
   If a vacancy occurs among the Plan Commission members who are appointed,
then the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of
the vacating member.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-27-2009)
§ 153.07 STATUTORY PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of I.C. 36-7-4 governing the powers, duties and procedures of
county advisory plan commissions, and as may be amended from time to time, are
herein incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 7-27-2009)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING ORDINANCE
Section
   
154.01   Incorporated by reference
§ 154.01 INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The Daviess County Zoning Ordinance is incorporated by reference as if set
forth in full herein. The entire Zoning Ordinance, as may be amended from time
to time, is available for review by the general public in the Office of the
County Auditor during regular office hours.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 9-23-2013; Ord. 2016-7, passed 10-25-2016; Ord. 2017-6,
passed 12-12-2017; Ord. 2020-4, passed 5-26-2020)
CHAPTER 155: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
Section
   
155.01   Purpose and application
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Residential accessory uses solar energy systems (AUSES)
   
155.04   Commercial solar energy systems (CSES)
§ 155.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   This chapter is intended to regulate the construction, placement, and
modification of solar energy systems, minimize impacts to the aesthetic
character of Daviess County (the "county"), assure that development and
production of solar energy in the county is safe, effective, and beneficial to
the county, and to further the goals and policies of the county by:
      (1)   Encouraging the location of commercial solar energy systems in non-
residential areas.
      (2)   Minimizing impacts of solar energy systems to the aesthetic,
environmental, and fiscal wellbeing of the county through careful design and
site standards.
      (3)   Providing for the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are applicable to zoning districts
which allow or may allow solar energy system placement and to govern the
siting, subsequent restoration of site, development, operation, rehabilitation,
and decommissioning of solar energy systems, which generate electricity to be
sold in the wholesale or retail markets, or which are used to generate
electricity for private and public use.
   (C)   Except as permitted hereunder, no person or entity shall construct,
operate, or locate a solar energy system within the county without having fully
complied with the provisions hereunder and all other applicable rules and
provisions of Indiana Code, the Daviess County Zoning Ordinance, the Advisory
Plan Commission, and the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to interfere with any requirement
of federal or state law. When permitted by federal or state law, this chapter
may impose stricter requirements, in whole or in part, than may be imposed by
any other federal, state, or county authority.
(Ord. 2023-8, passed 12-26-2023)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (AUSES). A solar panel, solar array,
battery storage, or other solar array equipment principally used to capture and
convert solar energy to electrical, mechanical, or thermal energy for primary
or solely on-site use, including any free-standing, ground or roof-mounted
panels, modules, other related equipment and are intended for residential
applications.
   APPLICANT. A person or entity that applies for a solar energy system project
to develop, operate, and/or maintain the project.
   CO-APPLICANT. A person or entity who applies for a solar energy system
project solely for ownership interest in real property to be used for or in
connection with the project.
   COLLECTOR. Any power line that carries electrical power from a solar panel/
s or associated transformers or converters to the point of interconnection with
the electrical power grid. The interconnection with high voltage transmission
systems shall be the substation servicing the system.
   COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (CSES). Any area used by any property owner/
sand/or entity and its contained industrial scale group for the conversion of
photo-voltaic solar energy into usable electricity or thermal power, primarily
or solely for off-site utility grid use, including freestanding, ground-mounted
solar panels, modules, battery storage, related equipment, ancillary
improvements, substations, operations, maintenance, and storage buildings. Any
SES covering an area greater than one contiguous acre shall necessarily be
considered "commercial" and subject to the requirements herein.
   GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is directly
installed into the ground and is not attached to any structure.
   NON-PARTICIPATING (PROPERTY OR LANDOWNER). Property or property-owner of
land adjacent to CSES project that is not participating in CSES project as a
co-applicant.
   OPERATOR. Any person or entity having primary involvement with or use,
operation, or maintenance of any portion of a solar energy system.
   OWNER. Any person or entity and successors in ownership or interest of a
CSES. OWNER does not include any person or entity whose ownership or interest
in a CSES is limited to related real property.
   PARTICIPATING (PROPERTY OR LANDOWNER). Property or property-owner of land
adjacent to CSES project that is participating in CSES project as a co-
applicant.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. Any building, structure in which the principal use of
the lot is conducted, limited to dwelling or employment structures (excluding
small agricultural buildings/barns), or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or is designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families or individuals.
   ROOF-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system located on the roof
of a lawfully established structure, either primary or accessory.
   SOLAR ARRAY. Multiple solar panels in a system.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). A system capable of collecting and converting
solar energy into thermal, electrical, or mechanical energy. Includes solar
thermal, photovoltaic, and passive solar systems of any size.
(Ord. 2023-8, passed 12-26-2023)
§ 155.03 RESIDENTIAL ACCESSORY USES SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (AUSES).
   The regulations herein shall apply to the following types of solar energy
systems within the unincorporated areas of the county. AUSES are considered an
accessory use to the principal use and are allowed without any improvement
location permit in all zoning districts; provided however, such system may not
occupy more than one contiguous acre of the parcel being permitted. All AUSES
shall adhere to the development standards of the zoning district in which it is
located, including minimum setbacks, maximum height, and maximum lot coverage.
AUSES shall not be placed within legal easement, rights-of-way, nor impede the
stormwater conveyance system.
(Ord. 2023-8, passed 12-26-2023)
§ 155.04 COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (CSES).
   (A)   Commercial solar energy systems may be located in zoning districts
designated A-1 and I-2.
   (B)   No person or entity may construct, operate or expand a CSES project
within the boundaries of the county until an application for CSES permit has
been submitted to and been approved by the Board of Commissioners or its
appointee (the "County Plan Director"). Prior to the issuance of an improvement
location permit, the applicant, owner, and operator shall be required to obtain
the following:
      (1)   An "economic development agreement" for the project. The economic
development agreement must be developed in consultation with County Economic
Development and the county governing bodies, and shall include, as applicable:
         (a)   Estimated property taxes.
         (b)   Any economic development payments.
         (c)   Current and planned use cost and tax revenue comparison of the
CSES project area.
      (2)   Approval of any proposed variances by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   Applications for CSES permit.
      (1)   A completed CSES application shall be reviewed within 45 days of
submittal to the County Plan Director. If applicant is not the owner of the
real property on which the CSES is sited, all co-applicants must submit an
affidavit of consent, signed by an officer of the applicant and must list the
applicant, co-applicant and operator.
      (2)   Applicants and co-applicants shall receive a written notice of
acceptance or denial of CSES permit within 90 days of submission.
      (3)   Application for CSES permit shall include the following:
         (a)   Application for improvement location permit.
         (b)   Cost reimbursement.
         (c)   Site development plan.
         (d)   Grading plan.
         (e)   Road use agreement and any related Highway Department permits.
         (f)   Drainage and stormwater pollution prevention plan.
         (g)   Screening and landscape management plan.
         (h)   Decommissioning plan.
         (i)   Safety and security plan and insurance.
         (j)   Telecommunications and wireless signals report.
         (k)   Glint and glare study.
         (l)   Toll-free contact report.
         (m)   Responsible party contact report.
   (D)   Cost reimbursement. A filing fee in the amount of $50,000 must be
submitted to the county by applicant upon application for a CSES permit.
      (1)   The filing fee is intended to address expenses and professional
fees actually incurred by the county regarding the CSES permitting process.
      (2)   Such amount was determined in 2023 and is subject to annual
increase consistent with the consumer price index, but not less than a 5%
increase each year, hereafter.
   (E)   Site development plan. The site development plan shall be submitted
with the application for improvement location permit in accordance with the
applicable article in the Daviess County Zoning Ordinance.
      (1)   Clear maps at appropriate scale shall be provided in both
electronic and hard- copy format to include the following in relation to the
CSES project area:
         (a)   Topography of project area (at one-foot contours).
         (b)   Political and natural features such as, but not limited to,
county boundaries, waterways, roadways, and easements.
         (c)   Identification of participating land parcels and adjoining land
parcels with associated state tax parcel numbers, including locations of all
permanent and primary structures within said parcels, along with any waiver
obtained from non-participating landowners.
         (d)   Approximate location and information for the following within
the CSES project area:
            1.   Location, number, and spacing of solar panel blocks and their
maximum height (with distances measured in a straight line from the nearest
edge of the CSES panels).
               a.   No solar panel may be located less than 250 feet from an
existing primary principal structure
               b.   No solar panel may be located less than 25 feet from any
non-participating adjacent property line, unless waived by the owner in
writing.
               c.   No solar panel may exceed 25 feet in height at its highest
extended rotation.
            2.   Substations.
            3.   Total acreage of project.
            4.   GIS coordinates and general outline of project area.
            5.   All proposed structures, equipment, and access roads inside
the project area.
            6.   Transmission lines, collectors.
            7.   Ancillary equipment.
            8.   Identification, access, informational, and warning signs.
            9.   Battery storage location and specification description, if
any.
            10.   Security lights and other safety features.
         (e)   Boundary survey, conducted in accordance with the Minimum
Standards for Competent Practice of Land Surveying as outlined in 865 I.A.C.1-
12.
            1.   Location of fencing, screening, and buffer areas. All solar
panel arrays for the CSES project must be surrounded by fencing no less than
six feet in height.
            2.   Location of access roads and access points.
            3.   Location of all utility lines associated with or adjacent to
the project area.
            4.   Floodplain elevation and location.
            5.   Wetland location within project area, if applicable, based
upon a delineation prepared in accordance with applicable U.S. Army Corps of
Engineer requirements.
            6.   Location of recognized historic or heritage sites as listed by
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources as National Register of Historic
Places ("NRHP") and State Register of Historic Places ("SRHP") sites within one
mile of project site.
      (2)   Environmental assessment. An environmental assessment of the
project area shall be conducted, and a copy shall be submitted with the
application for improvement location permit.
   (F)   Grading plan. A grading plan shall be submitted to the County Plan
Director.
   (G)   Drainage and stormwater pollution prevention plan.
      (1)   A drainage plan shall be submitted to the County Drainage Board (or
County Commissioners, as applicable) and the County Soil and Water Conservation
District for approval.
      (2)   Drainage shall not impede the flow of water and shall comply with
all county ordinances related to drainage and stormwater.
   (H)   Road use agreement.
      (1)   (a)   A road use agreement shall be submitted with the application
for improvement location permit. The County Commissioners or its appointee
(e.g., the County Highway Department Supervisor) will review said agreement
prior to any approval.
         (b)   Agreement must indicate that the applicant, owner, or operator
is aware of the requirement to track usage of any roadway utilized for any
reason during construction, operation, and decommissioning of the CSES project.
      (2)   An acceptable form of financial assurance for the repair or
replacement of any roadways, bridges, signage, or drainage structures damaged
in relation to CSES project activities shall be submitted to the County
Commissioners or its appointee (the County Highway Department) for approval
prior to construction.
   (I)   Screening and landscape management plan. A screening and landscape
management plan shall be submitted with the application for improvement
location permit. In all cases, the screening and landscaping plan must be
appropriate for the region and economically feasible for the applicant, along
with being approved by the co-applicant.
      (1)   Screening plan.
         (a)   A combination of new and/or suitable existing vegetation, in
combination with optional opaque fencing are encouraged for screening and
buffer purposes. Acknowledgment that unhealthy or dead specimens must be
replaced within one year must be expressed within the plan.
         (b)   This plan must demonstrate the effort to mitigate visual impacts
of CSES when panels or any associated CSES structures are located within 250
feet or less from existing residences or other principal structures on
adjoining parcels, unless waived by the property owner in writing. When
distance from these structures exceeds 250 feet, screening for visual impact
mitigation does not apply.
      (2)   Landscape management plan. In all cases, the landscape management
plan shall demonstrate the proposed method to mitigate site erosion and soil
degradation both during construction and permanently on-site once construction
is complete. This may be done via the expedient planting of grass or other
crops that provide continuous living roots. In addition to the forementioned, a
plan to control invasive species and noxious weeds must be included.
Notwithstanding the requirements herein, the Administrator may necessitate
additional environmental and visual protection steps to mitigate health,
safety, and/or welfare impacts of citizens, including but not limited to
erosion, pollination, and agricultural concerns and interests. Following the
initial submission prior to construction, vegetation and landscape management
plan updates or changes may be submitted at any time to the County Plan
Director for review and potential approval, with the understanding that dual-
use land opportunities or improved management methods may arise.
   (J)   Decommissioning plan. A decommissioning plan shall be submitted with
the application for improvement location permit to assure the project will be
properly decommissioned by the applicant or any subsequent owner upon the end
of project life or abandonment. The plan shall outline infrastructure removal,
potential soil remediation, vegetative alterations, erosion mitigation, and the
expected timeline for decommissioning. A cost estimate for decommissioning,
determined by a third- party professional engineering firm, shall be included.
      (1)   Decommissioning security. Prior to construction, the applicant
must, at the time of application for an improvement location permit, deliver a
satisfactory pro forma performance or surety bond, letter of credit or other
form of financial assurance that is acceptable to the Board of Commissioners
(the "decommissioning security"), securing performance of the decommissioning
obligations. The decommissioning costs shall be re-evaluated every five years
after approval of the initial decommissioning security. The amount of financial
assurance that may be acceptable must be at least equal to 25% of estimated
total decommissioning costs in the first five years, aggregated to 50% of those
costs in years five to ten post-approval, and 100% of those costs at year ten
and beyond.
      (2)   Decommissioning obligations. Remove and legally disposal of all
physical material pertaining to the project, including materials above, below
and atop ground. After decommissioning, restoration of the area occupied by the
project improvements must leave the parcel in a state suitable for a land use
equivalent to that which existed immediately prior to project improvements.
      (3)   Abandonment. A CSES project is considered abandoned if no
electricity is generated from the project site for 18 continuous months, for
any reason, including but not limited to a force majeure. If power generation
is intended to resume, a plan outlining the steps and schedules for returning
the CSES to operation must be submitted to and approved by the County Plan
Director within 90 days after the 12-month inactivity period. If the
forementioned plan is not submitted and approved, decommissioning of the
project improvements must commence.
      (4)   Updates to decommissioning plan. The decommissioning plan shall be
updated by the Operator for County Commissioners review every five years after
the approval of the initial decommissioning plan and when any material
improvements are added to the project.
   (K)   Safety and security plan and insurance.
      (1)   Safety and security plan. A safety and security plan shall be
submitted to the County Plan Director at the time of application for
improvement location permit. If the plan includes using the county services, it
should include signatures of the proper authorities indicating they are aware
of their roles and capable of performing them. Coordination with local
emergency responders must be included.
      (2)   Safety and warnings. All CSES projects shall provide the following
warnings and safety information at each locked entrance:
         (a)   A visible "High Voltage" warning sign.
         (b)   Name and phone number for the electric utility operator.
         (c)   Name and phone number for the operator.
         (d)   Facility 911 address, GPS coordinates.
         (e)   Lock box with keys, as needed.
         (f)   Relevant site maps must be provided, either electronically or in
hard- copy format, to emergency management agencies that serve the project site
area.
      (3)   Insurance.
         (a)   The owner and operator of a CSES shall maintain commercial
general liability insurance for death, bodily injury, and property damage,
which may be combined with umbrella coverage and shall be required to name
Daviess County, Indiana as an additional insured solely to the extent of
liabilities arising under this chapter, in such amounts as agreed upon in the
safety and security plan.
         (b)   A current certificate of insurance shall be provided to the
county and updated submissions are required, as applicable.
   (L)   Telecommunications and wireless signals report. The applicant shall
submit a telecommunications and wireless signals report prepared by a licensed
professional with a specialization in telecommunications, identifying any
expected interference the CSES may have with over the air communications. The
applicant must provide a statement describing any such interference mitigation.
If, after construction, the applicant receives a written complaint related to
interference, the applicant shall promptly resolve the complaint. No solar
energy system shall interfere with public safety telecommunications.
   (M)   Glint and glare study. A glint and glare study shall be submitted for
review by the County Plan Director.
   (N)   Toll-free contact report. The applicant shall provide documentation of
the establishment of a 24 hour toll-free phone number for the registering of
complaints and concerns. This number shall be posted at every road intersection
in the CSES project area prior to and during construction. It is understood
that efforts to address legitimate complaints shall be initiated by the
applicant, owner, or operator within 48 hours. After that time, the county may
address complaints, and any expenses incurred shall be reimbursed by the
applicant, owner, or operator, whichever applicable.
   (O)   Responsible party contact report.
      (1)   A responsible party contact report shall be submitted with the
application for improvement location permit. This list includes the following
information for applicant, owner, operator, and any other responsible party:
         (a)   Name.
         (b)   Phone number.
         (c)   Physical and e-mail address.
         (d)   Intermediate and parent companies, if applicable.
      (2)   Any time the owner, operator, or any other responsible party
changes, the change must be submitted to the County Plan Director.
   (P)   Additional assurances. The applicant shall provide a notarized
statement acknowledging and affirming the following with respect to the
project:
      (1)   All duties and financial assurances of the applicant, owner, and
operator shall be binding upon successors in interest and assigns.
      (2)   Written notice shall be provided to County Commissioners within 30
days of transfer of ownership interest in the CSES project.
   (Q)   Construction hours. CSES construction activities shall only take place
between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. eastern time when a CSES located within 1,000
feet of a non-participating primary structure, unless a written waiver has been
provided by the property owner.
   (R)   Post-construction requirements.
      (1)   Waste removal. All solid waste generated from any activity in
relation to a CSES shall be removed from the site in a timely manner. All
hazardous waste generated from any activity in relation to a CSES shall be
handled in a manner consistent with all local, state, and federal rules.
      (2)   Modifications. Any modification to the CSES, including but not
limited to significant material changes, generating capacity, or land
footprint, must first be submitted for approval by the County Plan Director.
      (3)   Drainage.
         (a)   Within 120 days of CSES project completion, the applicant shall
submit a site map to the County Drainage Board (or County Commissioners, as
applicable), detailing the following:
            1.   Off site ground disturbance related to construction.
            2.   All routes over which trucks and equipment traveled.
         (b)   The applicant shall be liable for costs incurred by the county
in relation to the CSES project, including but not limited to the repair or
replacement of the following, if located within 50 feet of the routes utilized
for CSES project activities or ground disturbed by CSES project activities:
            1.   County drain tiles.
            2.   Regulated drains and ditches.
            3.   Regulated surface and subsurface structures.
            4.   Private tiles located in public rights-of-way.
      (4)   Safety. Upon completion of a CSES construction project, the owner
or operator shall deliver a copy of the as-built site map to the County Plan
Director and to all emergency service providers serving the project area.
      (5)   Administrative fee. On the tenth anniversary of application for
improvement location permit issuance, assuming the project is constructed and
operating, and on each ten-year anniversary thereafter, an administrative fee
in the amount of $10,000 shall be paid to the county by the applicant, owner,
operator or other CSES responsible party, such amount to regularly increase in
accordance with the application fee hereunder.
(Ord. 2023-8, passed 12-26-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS AND THE LIKE
      
II.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
Cross-reference:
   Park Board provisions, see
Chapter 90
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS AND THE LIKE
 
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
-              3-8-1966    Agreement of County Park Board
Council 94-3   2-8-1994    Airport lease agreement
                           Approval of a lease between County Economic
Council 2010-5 11-10-2010  Development Foundation, Inc. and the County
                           Redevelopment Commission
                           Approval of a lease between Daviess County Economic
2011-1         2-9-2011    Development Foundation, Inc. and the Daviess County
                           Redevelopment Commission
2015-2         6-8-2015    Transfer of real property to the Daviess County
                           Economic Development Foundation, Inc.
                          
 
TABLE II: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.       Date Passed Description
Council 2003-2 - -         Vacates a portion of West Washington Place
94-3           3-28-1994   Vacates portion of West Second Street
                           Vacates part of public roadway and cul-de-sac
2006-2         3-27-2006   abutted by Lots 1 through 7 in Boggs West
                           Subdivision in Barr Township
2009-4         7-27-2009   Vacates streets and alleys in Glendale Addition
2009-4         8-24-2009   Vacates streets and alleys in Glendale Addition
                           Vacates County Road 350 N. from its intersection
2019-3         3-12-2019   with Count Road 350 E. west approximately 1330 feet
                           to its intersection with Interstate 69's right-of-
                           way
                           Vacates Old 1125 E commencing at the west edge of a
                           parcel recorded as Instrument No. 06-3893, then
2020-5         6-23-2020   traveling along said old roadway a distance of
                           approximately 783 feet more or less to the site of
                           the Old Portersville Bridge
2021-4         8-10-2021   Vacates a portion of Fourth Street in the Town of
                           Maysville
2022-6         11-22-2022  Vacating a portion of Sherman Street and a portion
                           of Main and Third Streets
                          
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1981-2   10-26-1981  Grants franchise to Loogootee Cablevision Company, Inc.
                     for a cable television system
87-1     1-19-1987   Grants to Indiana Cable Associates, Ltd. a franchise, the
                     University as grantee
2003-5   12-22-2003  Grants non-exclusive franchise to Alliance Communications
                     Partners, L.P. for a cable system
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Reference Code Section
I.C. Reference                Code Section
1-1-1-5                       10.04
1-1-1-7                       10.12
1-1-1-8                       10.06
1-1-4-5                       10.05
1-1-5-1                       10.11
1-1-6-1                       10.08
3-6-4.2-14                    32.03
3-11-8                        35.03
4-21-5                        52.11
4-21.5-1-9                    113.01
4-21.5-3 et seq.              115.42
4-21.5-3-1 et seq.            115.42
5-11-1-27(e)                  32.06
5-11-14-1                     32.03
Title 5, Article 14           35.04
5-14-1.5-5(d)                 36.23
5-14-3-2                      34.03;
                              34.99
5-14-3-3                      31.02
5-14-3-3(e)                   34.03
5-14-3-3.6                    34.03
5-14-3-3.6(e)                 34.03
5-14-3-4                      34.03
5-14-3-6                      34.03
5-14-3-8(j)                   34.03
5-14-3-8(k)                   34.03
5-14-3-8.5                    34.03
5-14-3-8.5(b)                 34.03
5-22 et seq.                  32.02
5-22-7                        32.02
5-22-8-3                      32.02
5-22-10                       32.02
6-1.1                         33.06
6-1.1-35-3                    32.03
6-1.1-41 et seq.              37.05
6-1.1-41-5                    37.05
6-1.1-41-10                   37.05
6-1.1-41-12                   37.05
6-1.1-41-16                   37.05
6-3-2                         113.03
6-3.5-4-2                     33.01
6-3.5-4-2(b)                  33.01
6-3.5-4-6                     33.01
6-3.5-4-13                    33.01
6-3.5-4-13(c)                 33.01
6-3.5-5-2                     33.01
6-3.5-5-2(c)                  33.01
6-3.5-5-3                     33.01
6-3.5-5-4                     33.01
6-3.5-5-8                     33.01
6-3.5-5-15                    33.01
6-3.5-5-15(c)                 33.01
6-9-18 et seq.                33.02,
                              37.02
6-9-18-3                      33.02,
                              37.02
6-9-18-5 et seq.              33.03 ,
                              37.02
6-42-1-6                      113.02
8-14-2-4(c)(1)—8-14-2-4(c)(333.01
8-16-3 et seq.                37.05
8-16-3                        37.05
8-16-3-3 et seq.              37.05
8-16-3-3                      37.05
Title 9                       70.02
9-20-1- et seq.               70.01
9-21-1-1 et seq.              71.17;
                              71.19
10-14-3                       36.20—
                              36.24
10-14-3-12                    36.23
10-14-3-13                    36.23
10-14-3-16                    36.21
10-14-3-17                    36.22
10-14-3-22                    36.20,
                              36.23
10-14-3-27                    36.22
10-14-3-29                    36.23
10-14-3-34                    36.23
10-16-7-9                     36.20
10-16-7-10                    36.20
Title 11                      37.03
11-2-6 et seq.                37.03
11-8-8-21                     37.07
11-12-5-3                     30.01
11-12-5-5                     30.04
11-12-6 et seq.               37.03
13-1-3                        50.01
13-1-12-8                     50.01
13-7                          50.01
13-7-7-5                      50.01
13-19                         50.02
Title 14                      70.02
14-16-1                       70.02
14-28-1                       152.44
14-28-1-26                    152.44
14-28-4                       152.01
Title 15, Ch. 3, Ch. 4.6      92.07
15-16-7                       92.02
15-16-7-8                     92.05
16-18-2-111                   35.04
16-20-1-10                    113.06
16-20-1-14                    34.05
16-20-1-26                    113.04
16-20-1-27                    34.05
16-20-2                       34.05;
                              115.02
16-20-2-16                    34.05
16-20-2-27                    34.05
16-20-8-5                     113.04
16-20-8-6                     113.04
16-31-2                       35.04
16-37-1-12                    115.05
16-42-1-6                     113.02
16-42-1-13                    113.04
16-42-5-4                     113.03
16-42-5-23                    113.04
16-42-5-28(g)                 113.05
16-46-10-4                    34.05
22-9-1-4 et seq.              94.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.              94.01
22-9.5-1-1—22-9.5.-11-3     94.12
22-9.5-2-2                    94.02
22-9.5-2-3                    94.02
22-9.5-2-4                    94.02
22-9.5-2-8                    94.02
22-9.5-2-9                    94.02
22-9.5-2-11                   94.02
22-9.5-2-13                   94.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.              94.10
22-9.5-3                      94.03
22-9.5-3-4                    94.10
22-9.5-4-8                    94.11
22-9.5-5                      94.02
22-9.5-5-1                    94.03
22-9.5-5-6                    94.05
22-9.5-5-7                    94.05
22-9.5-6                      94.02;
                              94.11
27-1-15.6-6(d)                31.02
27-7-3-2                      31.02
27-7-3-6                      31.02
34-28-5                       71.19;
                              131.01
34-28-5-4                     131.01
36-1-3-8(a)(10)               10.99
36-1-8-5.1                    37.04
36-1-10.5-5 et seq.           33.02,
                              37.02
36-2-2-8(a)                   36.23
36-2-5-2(b) et seq.           33.02,
                              37.02
36-2-5-3(a)                   36.22
36-2-7-10                     34.02
36-2-7-10(c)                  34.02
36-2-7-10(f)                  31.02
36-2-7-10.1                   31.02
36-2-7-10.1(d)                31.02
36-2-7-10.1(h)                31.02
36-2-12-13                    91.25
36-6-16 et seq.               36.09
36-7-4                        152.01;
                              153.07
36-8-11-8                     93.01
36-8-11-8(c)                  93.01
36-8-11-12                    93.01
36-8-11-18                    93.01
36-8-16                       36.10
36-8-16 et seq.               36.01;
                              36.09
36-9-30                       50.01
                              
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.       Date Passed Code Section
87-1           - -         150.01
98-5           - -         32.02
Council 2003-2 - -         TSO Table II
-              8-25-1958   72.01
-              3-16-1959   72.01
-              3-8-1966    TSO Table I
Council Ord.   5-20-1966   90.01
-              7-20-1981   35.01
1981-2         10-26-1981  TSO Table III
1981-3         1-1-1982    70.01;
                           70.99
3-7            3-7-1983    70.02;
                           70.99
84-1           9-12-1984   92.01—
                           92.07
87-1           1-19-1987   TSO Table III
87-2           11-2-1987   70.03;
                           70.99
1-88           4-18-1988   50.01
3-88           9-19-1988   51.01;
                           51.99
88-6           12-19-1988  150.01
Council 1-89   6-27-1989   33.01
90-1           8-13-1990   93.01
90-3           10-11-1990  30.01
91-1           1-28-1991   37.01
91-3           2-11-1991   30.02
91-4           3-11-1991   35.02
91-5           6-10-1991   50.02
91-7           12-30-1991  50.03;
                           50.99
                           110.01—
92-2           3-9-1992    110.04;
                           110.99
92-3           3-23-1992   72.01
92-4           4-13-1992   110.04
93-2           2-22-1993   34.01
93-3           6-28-1993   70.04;
                           70.99
93-5           7-12-1993   130.01
                           71.15—
93-7           11-8-1993   71.19;
                           71.99
Council 94-3   2-8-1994    TSO Table I
94-3           3-28-1994   TSO Table II
Council 95-1A  3-14-1995   36.01—
                           36.09
95-2           4-10-1995   72.01
95-3           8-14-1995   34.02
96-4           9-9-1996    130.02
                           91.15—
97-2           3-24-1997   91.26;
                           91.99
98-4           6-22-1998   32.01
1999-4         12-13-1999  32.03
                           111.01—
                           111.10;
2000-2         4-10-2000   111.25—
                           111.34;
                           111.99
Council 2000-4 12-12-2000  33.02
Council 2001-2 6-12-2001   37.02
Council 2001-3 7-10-2001   33.03
2001-6         12-10-2001  30.03
2002-1         1-14-2002   37.03
Council 2002-2 3-29-2002   33.04
-              4-22-2002   32.04
Council 2002-4 12-10-2002  30.04
                           112.01—
2003-1         3-24-2003   112.05;
                           112.99
2003-5         12-22-2003  TSO Table III
2004-4         5-24-2004   72.01
Council 2004-5 10-13-2004  33.05
2005-1         1-10-2005   34.03;
                           34.99
2005-1         1-10-2005   71.01;
                           71.99
Council 2004-3 1-12-2005   33.06
2005-2         4-11-2005   35.03
2005-3         4-11-2005   151.01—
                           151.06
                           94.01—
                           94.08;
2005-8         7-25-2005   94.10—
                           94.12;
                           94.99
2005-09        8-8-2005    35.04
2006-2         3-27-2006   TSO Table II
2006-2B        4-10-2006   33.07
2006-5         7-10-2006   31.01
Council 2007-1 4-11-2007   37.04
2007-2         11-26-2007  33.08
Council 2007-3 12-12-2007  35.05
2008-1         3-24-2008   113.01—
                           113.07
                           115.01—
                           115.17;
2008-3         3-24-2008   115.30—
                           115.43;
                           115.99
2008-6         8-25-2008   71.02;
                           71.99
                           152.01—
                           152.11;
                           152.25—
                           152.27;
2008-8         11-24-2008  152.40—
                           152.46;
                           152.60—
                           152.66;
                           152.99
Council 2009-1 6-10-2009   33.01
2009-3         7-27-2009   153.01—
                           153.07
2009-4         7-27-2009   TSO Table II
2009-4         8-24-2009   TSO Table II
2009-5         9-28-2009   91.01;
                           91.99
2010-1         2-8-2010    72.01
Council 2010-2 8-26-2010   34.04
2010-3         9-13-2010   72.01
2010-4         9-13-2010   131.01
Council 2010-5 11-10-2010  TSO Table I
2011-1         2-9-2011    TSO Table I
2011-2         3-14-2011   32.03
2011-3         4-25-2011   37.05
2011-4         6-13-2011   34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2011-5         8-22-2011   30.05
2011-6         9-12-2011   Adopting Ordinance
2012-2         4-23-2012   71.02
2012-3         5-14-2012   34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2012-4         8-13-2012   34.05
2012-5         11-26-2012  34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2013-01        1-4-2013    35.04
                           52.01—
2013-3         5-13-2013   52.12;
                           52.99
2013-4         7-8-2013    34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2013-5         8-12-2013   34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2013-6         9-9-2013    Adopting Ordinance
2013-7         9-23-2013   154.01
2013-8         11-15-2013  30.03
2014-1         2-10-2014   34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2014-2         3-24-2014   34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2014-3         6-9-2014    36.20—
                           36.24
2014-5         8-11-2014   Adopting Ordinance
2014-6         11-10-2014  34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2015-1         2-23-2015   50.02
2015-2         6-8-2015    TSO Table I
2015-4         6-22-2015   94.01—
                           94.11
2015-5         7-27-2015   Adopting Ordinance
2015-6         8-24-2015   34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2015-7         11-9-2015   72.01
2016-1         2-23-2016   34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2016-3         6-28-2016   Adopting Ordinance
2016-4         7-12-2016   32.05
2016-5         7-26-2016   70.05;
                           70.99
2016-7         10-25-2016  154.01
2016-8         11-22-2016  34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2016-9         11-22-2016  32.06
2017-1         6-13-2017   Adopting Ordinance
2017-2         8-22-2017   34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2017-6         12-12-2017  154.01
2017-7         12-12-2017  35.04
2018-3         1-23-2018   34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2018-4         3-13-2018   32.02
2018-6         4-24-2018   32.02
2019-1         1-9-2019    34.05
2019-2         1-22-2019   35.06
2019-3         3-12-2019   TSO Table II
2019-4         7-9-2019    34.06
2019-5         7-23-2019   34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2019-6         10-8-2019   Adopting Ordinance
2017-1.2       12-17-2019  32.07
2020-1         1-14-2020   71.02
2020-4         5-26-2020   154.01
2020-5         6-23-2020   TSO Table II
2020-6         8-11-2020   34.05
2020-7         9-8-2020    33.07
2021-2         6-8-2021    37.06
2021-3         6-8-2021    34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2021-4         8-10-2021   TSO Table II
2021-5         8-10-2021   37.07
2021-6         8-11-2021   32.03
2021-7         9-14-2021   35.04
2021-9         10-12-2021  34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2021-11        12-28-2021  30.03
2021-12        12-28-2021  36.10
2022-1         4-26-2022   32.15—
                           32.21
2022-2         4-26-2022   34.05
2022-3         3-9-2022    34.04
2022-5         9-13-202    34.05;
                           Ch. 34, App. A
2022-6         11-22-2022  TSO Table II
2022-7         12-27-2022  71.02
2023-1         5-23-2023   33.02,
                           37.02
2023-2         5-23-2023   31.02
                           52.01—
2023-3         7-25-2023   52.12,
                           52.99
2023-4         9-12-2023   31.02
2023-8         12-26-2023  155.01—
                           155.04
2024-1         12-23-2024  71.02
                          
 
 
