DEARBORN COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-24 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 11-8- 2023; and
BC Res. 2023-12, passed 11-8-2023; and
State legislation current through Legislative Service, 2024 Acts, Pamphlet No.
3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
COUNTY OFFICIALS
OF
DEARBORN COUNTY, INDIANA
DEARBORN COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
Jim Thatcher, President
Allen Goodman, Commissioner
Rick Probst, Commissioner
DEARBORN COUNTY COUNCIL
Elizabeth Morris, President
Tim Doll, Vice President
Mark Dole, Member
Dan Lansing, Member
Kevin Turner, Member
Glenn Wright, Member
 
MAYOR                  Kelly Mollaun
COUNTY ASSESSOR        Megan Acra
COUNTY AUDITOR         Connie Fromhold
COUNTY CLERK OF COURTS Wendy Beatty
CIRCUIT COURT          JUDGE F. Aaron Negangard
SUPERIOR COURT NO. 1   JUDGE Jon Cleary
SUPERIOR COURT NO. 2   JUDGE Sally McLaughlin
MAGISTRATE             Jerome Charls
COUNTY ATTORNEY        Andy Baudendistel
COUNTY PROSECUTOR      Lynn Deddens
COUNTY RECORDER        Joyce Oles
COUNTY SHERIFF         Shane McHenry
COUNTY SURVEYOR        Dennis Kraus, Jr.
COUNTY TREASURER       Barbara J. Scherzinger
COUNTY CORONER         Cameron McCreary
FIRE CHIEF             Johnnie Tremain
POLICE CHIEF           David Schneider
Dearborn County Government Center
165 Mary Street
Lawrenceburg, IN 47025
Tel. (812) 537-8807 Fax (812) 537-5534
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 22 - 1997
   Dearborn County Board of Commissioners
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES OF DEARBORN COUNTY, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of Legislature of the State of Indiana empower and authorize
the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinances in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the County
and for the immediate prescription of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the County that this ordinance take effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF DEARBORN COUNTY,
INDIANA:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of Dearborn County, Indiana.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles: See attached “Exhibit A.”
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and preordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special right to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature of
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this County, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of Dearborn County on this 29
day of December, 1997 by a vote of 3 ayes and 0 nays.
    Craig E. Beckley /s/
   CRAIG BECKLEY, President
    Mark G. Dole /s/
   MARK DOLE
    John Kyle /s/
   JOHN KYLE
ATTEST:
Karen Shell /s/
Dearborn County Auditor
   “EXHIBIT A”
   DEARBORN COUNTY, INDIANA
   CODE OF ORDINANCES
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
                     10. General Provisions
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
                     30. Board of Commissioners; County Council
                     31. Sheriff's Department
                     32. Other Departments, Boards and Commissions
                     33. County Employees
                     34. Funds
                     35. Taxation
                     36. Civil Defense and Emergency Management
                     37. County Policy
                     38. Gaming
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
                     50. Garbage and Rubbish Disposal
                     51. Sewage Disposal
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
                     70. Traffic Rules
                     71. Traffic Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
                     90. Animals
                     91. Roads and Highways
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
                     110. Food Establishments
                     111. Sexually Oriented Businesses
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   [Reserved]
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
                     150. Building Regulations
                   Appendix: Schedule of Fees and Inspections Required
                     151. Comprehensive Plan
                     152. Flood Plain Regulations
                     153. Zoning and Subdivisions
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
               I. Franchises
               II. Interlocal Agreements
               III. Vacations
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Indiana Code
   References to Board of Commissioners Ordinances
   References to County Council Ordinances
   References to Board of Commissioners Resolutions
   INDEX
ORDINANCE NO. 6-1998
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
DEARBORN COUNTY, INDIANA
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1998 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make reference to section of the Indiana code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide of the usual daily operation of the
County and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect at an
early date;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE DEARBORN COUNTY BOARD OF
COMMISSIONERS, that:
   SECTION 1. The 1998 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
   SECTION 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED this the 2nd day of March, 1998.
                                                    John Kyle /s/
                                                   JOHN KYLE, President
                                                    Craig Beckley /s/
                                                   CRAIG BECKLEY
                                                    Mark Dole /s/       
                                                   MARK DOLE
ATTEST:
Karen Shell /s/
KAREN SHELL,
Dearborn County Auditor
2012 SUPPLEMENT ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE DEARBORN COUNTY, INDIANA, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2012 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide of the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF DEARBORN COUNTY:
Section 1.   The 2012 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Auditor of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Auditor.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this the 17 day of April, 2012.
Jeffrey L. Hughes /s/
Jeffrey Hughes, Commissioner
Attest:
Gayle Pennington /s/
Gayle L. Pennington, Auditor
ORDINANCE #2014-007
SUPPLEMENT ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE DEARBORN COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide of the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE DEARBORN COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
Section 1.   That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
ALL OF WHICH IS RESOLVED by the Board of Commissioners, Dearborn County,
Indiana on this 1st day of July, 2014.
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
DEARBORN COUNTY, INDIANA
Shane McHenry /s/                      Kevin Lynch /s/
Shane McHenry                        Kevin Lynch
Art Little /s/
Art Little
Attest:
Gayle Pennington /s/
Gayle L. Pennington
ORDINANCE #2019-008
ORDINANCE ADOPTING SUPPLEMENT TO DEARBORN COUNTY CODE OF ORDINANCES
An Ordinance enacting and adopting a supplement to the Code of Ordinances of
Dearborn County, State of Indiana.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2019 S-19 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Dearborn
County, Indiana which contains all Ordinances and Resolutions of general nature
enacted since the prior Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Dearborn
County, Indiana; and
WHEREAS, the 2019 S-19 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Dearborn County,
Indiana brings the Code of Ordinances current through local legislation
Ordinance 2018-011 and Resolution 2017-007 and State legislation current
through Legislative Service, 2018 Acts, Pamphlet No. 5; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners to
accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes in the law of the
State of Indiana.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners as
follows:
Section 1.   The 2019 S-19 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of Dearborn
County, Indiana as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its date of passage.
ALL OF WHICH IS ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County,
Indiana this the 2nd day of July, 2019.
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
DEARBORN COUNTY, INDIANA
Jim Thatcher /s/                            Art Little /s/
JIM THATCHER, President                     ART LITTLE, Member
                                       Rick Probst /s/
                                       RICK PROBST, Member
Attest:
Connie Fromhold /s/
CONNIE FROMHOLD
County Auditor
ORDINANCE 2021-006
ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING SUPPLEMENT TO THE DEARBORN COUNTY, INDIANA CODE
OF ORDINANCES
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2021 S-21 Supplement to the Dearborn County, Indiana Code of
Ordinances, which supplemental contains all ordinances of general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Dearborn County, Indiana Code
of Ordinances;
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Indiana Code;
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners to
accept these updated sections in accordance with the changes in the law of the
State of Indiana; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of Dearborn
County and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety,
and general welfare of Dearborn County that this Ordinance take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners as
follows:
   1.   The 2021 S-21 Supplement to the Dearborn County, Indiana Code of
Ordinances as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
   2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners and the Dearborn
County Auditor is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into
the copy of the Dearborn County, Indiana Code of Ordinances kept on file in the
Dearborn County Auditor’s Office.
   3.   This Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the
immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general welfare of the
people of Dearborn County, Indiana, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
ALL OF WHICH IS ORDAINED by the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County,
Indiana this the 18th day of May, 2021.
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
DEARBORN COUNTY, INDIANA
Jim Thatcher /s/                      Art Little /s/
JIM THATCHER, President                     ART LITTLE, Member
                                       Rick Probst /s/
                                       RICK PROBST, Member
Attest:
Connie Fromhold /s/
CONNIE FROMHOLD
County Auditor
   I affirm, under penalties for perjury, that I have taken reasonable care to
redact each Social Security number in this document, unless required by law.
                                       Andrew D. Baudendistel /s/
                                       Andrew D. Baudendistel
                                       Dearborn County Attorney
This Ordinance prepared by: Andrew D. Baudendistel, County Attorney, VOTAW &
SCHWARZ, 60 East High Street, Lawrenceburg, Indiana 47025. Phone (812) 537-
4500. Fax (812) 539-4500.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.17   Internal control standards
   
10.18   Materiality threshold
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the County of Dearborn shall be
designated as the Code of Dearborn County, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing law refer to the new code numbers assigned to that law.
   (G)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted, or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered
by the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only, and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only, and is not a part of the section.
   (H)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
Statutory reference:
   Construction of code, see I.C. 1-1-1-5
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of such persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving such authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK. The Clerk of the County.
      COMMISSION. The Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County, Indiana.
      COUNCIL. The County Council of Dearborn County, Indiana.
      COUNTY. Dearborn County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person's
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section, reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this county exercising
the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of
any transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
or the Commission refers to any board, bureau, commission, division,
department, officer, agency, authority, or instrumentality of any government,
and that name designation is incorrectly stated; or at the time of the
effective date of that ordinance or subsequent thereto, the rights, powers,
duties, or liabilities placed with that entity are or were transferred to a
different entity; then such named board, bureau, commission, department,
division, officer, agency, authority or instrumentality, whether correctly
named in the ordinance at its effective date or not, means that correctly named
entity, or the entity to which such duties, liabilities, powers, and rights
were transferred. (I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
2012 S-12
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
such section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. Such section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of such penalty, forfeiture,
or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This county shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-
14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.17 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The county adopts as policy the internal control standards as set
forth by the Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards
for Indiana Political Subdivisions manual, as expressly written and published
by the Indiana State Board of Accounts in September 2015, as amended from time
to time.
   (B)   In order to implement the standards outlined in division (A), there is
established an Internal Controls Standards Oversight Committee. The
members of the committee are determined by County Commissioners and may be
modified from time to time as deemed appropriate by amendment of this section.
The membership will consist of:
      (1)   The President of the County Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   The President of the County Council;
      (3)   The County Auditor;
      (4)   The County Treasurer;
      (5)   The County Clerk; and
      (6)   The County Administrator.
   (C)   As required by statute, all erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages or thefts of local government funds or property shall be reported
immediately to the State Board of Accounts. The County Commissioners will seek
a recommendation from the Internal Controls Standards Oversight Committee as to
an appropriate materiality threshold (dollar amount of variance, loss, shortage
or theft that requires reporting) and may approve or modify the threshold
amount as deemed appropriate. The Commissioners will communicate the
materiality threshold in a detailed policy that shall distinguish between cash
and other types of assets, maintenance of documentation and resolution of
incidents that do not meet the materiality threshold.
   (D)   All county government personnel will receive appropriate training on
the internal controls standards and procedures. PERSONNEL is defined as an
officer or employee whose official duties include receiving, processing,
depositing, disbursing or otherwise having access to funds that belong to the
federal government, state government, a political subdivision or another
governmental entity. As required by statute, the fiscal officer of the county
(the County Auditor) will file annual certification of training with the
Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (E)   The Commissioners office, in coordination with the Internal Controls
Oversight Committee, will develop, maintain and train personnel on internal
controls standards and policies, and all new personnel shall receive training
timely. All county officers, elected officials and employees are required to
comply with the policy. The policy will be integrated into the employee
handbook. Employees who fail to comply with this policy are subject to
disciplinary action, up to, but not limited to, termination of their
employment.
(BC Ord. 2016-002, passed 5-4-16; Am. BC Ord. 2016-003, passed 6-7-16)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning internal controls, see IC. 5-11-1-27
§ 10.18 MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   It will be the policy of the County Auditor to report to the State
Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or
thefts of cash in excess of $1,000. In addition, all erroneous or irregular
variances, losses, shortages or thefts of cash that occur more than one time in
a month, and the aggregate total of which $1,000 or more, shall be reported
immediately to the State Board of Accounts. Exceptions shall be made for
inadvertent clerical errors that are identified timely and promptly corrected
with no loss to the county.
   (B)   It will be the policy of the County Auditor to report promptly to the
State Board of Accounts any erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages
or thefts of non-cash items in excess of $5,000 estimated fair market value,
except for those resulting from inadvertent clerical errors or misplacements
that are identified timely and promptly corrected with no loss to the county,
and except for losses from genuine accidents.
   (C)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts
shall be reported immediately to the County Auditor. The county shall maintain
records and documentation concerning erroneous or irregular variances, losses,
shortages or thefts in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
and the internal control standards provided by the Indiana State Board of
Accounts;
   (D)   The county shall investigate all erroneous or irregular variances,
losses, shortages or thefts, regardless of whether they meet the materiality
threshold established by this section. Upon conclusion of each such
investigation, the county shall:
      (1)   Implement procedures designed to prevent the recurrence of such
incidents; and
      (2)   Take appropriate disciplinary action against the employee
responsible for the incident.
(BC Ord. 2016-006, passed 6-21-16)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Power to prescribe fines up to $2,500 granted, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Section
      
30.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; COUNTY COUNCIL
      
31.   SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT
      
32.   OTHER DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   COUNTY EMPLOYEES
      
34.   FUNDS
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
37.   COUNTY POLICY
      
38.   GAMING
      
39.   COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; COUNTY COUNCIL
Section
Board of Commissioners
   
30.01   County executive
   
30.02   Special meetings
   
30.03   Legislative procedures
   
30.04   Powers and duties
   
30.05   Advance payment of expense claims
County Council
   
30.15   Fiscal body
   
30.16   Meetings
   
30.17   Powers and duties
Election Districts
   
30.30   Establishing election districts
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 30.01 COUNTY EXECUTIVE.
   (A)   The three-member Board of Commissioners elected under I.C. 36-2-2-2 is
the county executive. In the name of “The Board of Commissioners of the County
of Dearborn,” the executive shall transact the business of the county. (I.C.
36-2-2-2)
   (B)   The executive shall hold a regular meeting at least once each month
and at other times as needed to conduct all necessary business. Dates of
regular meetings shall be established by resolution at or before the first
meeting in February of each year. (I.C. 36-2-2-6)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   If the public interest requires a special meeting of the executive,
such a meeting may be called by a member of the executive or by:
      (1)   The County Auditor;
      (2)   The County Clerk, if the office of County Auditor is vacant; or
      (3)   The County Recorder, if the offices of County Auditor and County
Clerk are both vacant.
   (B)   An officer calling a special meeting of the executive shall give at
least 48 hours notice of the meeting unless the meeting is called to deal with
an emergency under I.C. 5-14-1.5-5. The notice must include a specific
statement of the purpose of the meeting, and the executive may not conduct any
unrelated business at the meeting. (I.C. 36-2-2-8)
§ 30.03 LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES.
   The county executive adopting an ordinance, order, resolution, or motion for
the government of the county or the transaction of county business pursuant to
I.C. 36-2-4-2 will adhere to the following legislative procedures: (I.C. 36-2-
4-2)
   (A)   Quorum. A majority of all the elected members constitutes a quorum.
(I.C. 36-2-4-3)
   (B)   Passage of ordinances. A majority vote is required to pass an
ordinance unless a greater vote is required by statute. (I.C. 36-2-4-5)
   (C)   Continuation of question. If only two members of the county executive
are present at a    
meeting of the executive, and they disagree on a question that is before the
executive, the question shall be continued until the next meeting. (I.C. 36-2-
4-6)
   (D)   Passage of ordinance.
      (1)   This division does not apply to an ordinance of the fiscal body for
additional appropriations, or a zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning
ordinance that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
      (2)   Unanimous consent of the members present is required to pass an
ordinance on the same day or at the same meeting at which it is introduced.
(I.C. 36-2-4-7).
   (E)   Adoption of ordinances, orders or resolutions.
      (1)   An ordinance, order, or resolution is considered adopted when it is
signed by the presiding officer. If required, an adopted ordinance, order, or
resolution must be promulgated or published according to statute before it
takes effect.
      (2)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation
must, before it takes effect, be published once each week for two consecutive
weeks, according to I.C. 5-3-1:
         (a)   With each publication of notice in a newspaper in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; or
         (b)   With the first publication of notice in a newspaper described in
division (E)(2)(a) above and the second publication of notice:
            1.   In accordance with I.C. 5-3-5; and
            2.   On the official web site of the county.
      (3)   The following apply in addition to the other requirements of this
division:
         (a)   Subject to division (E)(6) below, the legislative body of a
county shall:
            1.   Subject to division (E)(3)(b) below, give written notice to
the Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before
amendment or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
            2.   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental
Management not later than 30 days after passage, amendment, or repeal of an
environmental restrictive ordinance.
         (b)   Upon written request by the legislative body, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (E)(3)
(a)1. above.
         (c)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after
2009 by the legislative body must state the notice requirements of division (E)
(3)(a) above.
         (d)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply
with division (E)(3)(c) above does not void the ordinance.
      (4)   This division (E) (other than division (E)(3)(a)) does not apply to
a zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution
approving a comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
      (5)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development
must:
         (a)   Be published:
            1.   One time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1; and
            2.   Not later than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the
legislative body in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1; and
         (b)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after
the date the ordinance is published under division (E)(5)(a).
      (6)   The notice requirements of division (E)(3)(a) apply only if the
municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice that
the department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred
to in division (E)(3)(a) as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
         (a)   Approved by the Department; and
         (b)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-
4, or I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-2-4-8)
   (F)   Record of ordinance adopted. Within a reasonable time after an
ordinance is adopted, the County Auditor shall record it in a book kept for
that purpose. The record must include the signature of the Presiding Officer
and the attestation of the Auditor. The record, or a certified copy of the
record, is presumptive evidence that the ordinance was adopted and took effect.
(I.C. 36-2-4-9)
Statutory reference:
   Publication of legal notices, see I.C. 5-3-1
§ 30.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All powers and duties of the county that are executive or
administrative in nature shall be exercised or performed by its executive,
except to the extent that these powers and duties are assigned to other elected
officers.
   (B)   The executive shall:
      (1)   Report the state of the county annually before March 1 to the
legislative body and to the people of the county;
      (2)   Recommend annually before March 1 to the legislative body whatever
action or program it considers necessary for the improvement of the county and
the welfare of its residents;
      (3)   Submit to the legislative body an annual budget in accordance with
I.C. 36-2-5;
      (4)   Establish the procedures to be followed by all county departments,
offices, and agencies under its jurisdiction to the extent these procedures are
not expressly assigned to other elected officers;
      (5)   Administer all statutes applicable to the county, and its
ordinances and regulations, to the extent these matters are not expressly
assigned to other elected officers;
      (6)   Supervise the care and custody of all county property;
      (7)   Supervise the collection of revenues and control all disbursements
and expenditures, and prepare a complete account of all expenditures, to the
extent these matters are not expressly assigned to other elected officers;
      (8)   Review, analyze, and forecast trends for county services and
finances, and programs of all county governmental entities, and report and
recommend on these to the legislative body by March 15 each year;
      (9)   Negotiate contracts for the county;
      (10)   Make recommendations concerning the nature and location of county
improvements, and provide for the execution of those improvements;
      (11)   Supervise county administrative offices except for the offices of
elected officers; and
      (12)   Perform other duties and functions that are imposed on it by
statute or ordinance.
   (C)   The executive may:
      (1)   Order any agency under its jurisdiction to undertake any task for
any other agency under its jurisdiction on a temporary basis, if necessary for
the proper and efficient administration of county government;
      (2)   Approve or veto ordinances passed by the legislative body, in the
manner prescribed by I.C. 36-2-4-8; and
      (3)   Establish and administer centralized budgeting, centralized
personnel selection, and centralized purchasing.
(I.C. 36-2-3.5-4)
§ 30.05 ADVANCE PAYMENT OF EXPENSE CLAIMS.
   (A)   The County Auditor has authority to make claim payments in advance of
the Board of Commissioners’ allowance for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the U.S. Government,
its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants or state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State or federal taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Conference registrations;
      (14)   Reimbursement for conference expenses incurred while attending
approved conferences, provided that the employee receiving reimbursement
submits the request for payment and supporting documents within five working
days of returning from such conference;
      (15)   Credit card or charge card expenses incurred by county government
offices for lawful purposes;
      (16)   Collect freight deliveries;
      (17)   Postage; and
      (18)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the County Auditor.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners or the County board having jurisdiction
over the allowance of the claim shall review and allow the claim at its next
regular and/or special meeting following the preapproved payment of the
expense.
   (D)   A payment of expenses as permitted in this section must be published
as required by I.C. 36-2-6-3.
(BC Ord. 15-2003, passed 9-8-03; Am. BC Ord. 16-2003, passed 9-15-03)
COUNTY COUNCIL
§ 30.15 FISCAL BODY.
   The seven member County Council elected under I.C. 36-2-3-3 is the fiscal
body. The fiscal body shall act in the name of “The Dearborn County Council.”
(I.C. 36-2-3-2(a))
   (A)   At its regular meeting required by I.C. 36-2- 3-7(b)(1), the fiscal
body shall elect a president and president pro tempore from its members.
   (B)   The County Auditor is the Clerk of the fiscal body and shall:
      (1)   Preserve the fiscal body’s records in the county auditor’s office;
      (2)   Keep an accurate record of the fiscal body's proceedings;
      (3)   Record the ayes and nays on each vote appropriating money or fixing
the rate of a tax levy; and
      (4)   Record the ayes and nays on other votes when requested to do so by
two or more members.
   (C)   The County Sheriff or a county police officer shall attend the
meetings of the fiscal body, if requested by the fiscal body, and shall execute
its orders.
   (D)   The fiscal body may employ legal and administrative personnel
necessary to assist and advise it in the performance of its functions and
duties.
(I.C. 36-2-3-6) (Ord. passed - - )
§ 30.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The fiscal body shall hold its meetings in the county seat, in the
County Auditor's office, or in another location provided by the county
executive and approved by the fiscal body.
   (B)   The fiscal body:
      (1)   Shall hold a regular meeting in January after its election, for the
purpose of organization and other business;
      (2)   Shall hold a regular meeting annually, as prescribed by I.C. 6-1.1-
17, to adopt the county's annual budget and tax rate;
      (3)   May hold a special meeting under divisions (C) or (D) below; and
      (4)   If the county has adopted I.C. 36-2-3.5, shall hold meetings at a
regularly scheduled time each month that does not conflict with the meetings of
the county executive.
   (C)   A special meeting may be called by the County Auditor, President of
the fiscal body, or by a majority of the members of the fiscal body. At least
48 hours before the meeting, the Auditor, President or members calling the
meeting shall give written notice of the meeting to each member of the fiscal
body and publish, at least one day before the meeting, the notice in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1-4. This does not apply to a meeting called to deal with an
emergency under I.C. 5-14-1.5-5.
   (D)   If a court orders the County Auditor to make an expenditure of county
money for a purpose for which an appropriation has not been made, the Auditor
shall immediately call an emergency meeting of the fiscal body to discuss the
matter. Notwithstanding division (C) above, the meeting must be held within
three working days of the receipt of the order by the Auditor, and notice of
the meeting day, time, and place is sufficient if given by phone to the members
of the fiscal body and given according to I.C. 5-14-1.5.
(I.C. 36-2-3-7) (Ord. passed - - )
§ 30.17 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   All powers and duties of the county that are legislative in nature
shall be exercised or performed by its legislative body.
   (B)   The legislative body may:
      (1)   Establish the committees that are necessary to carry out its
functions;
      (2)   Employ legal and administrative personnel necessary to carry out
its functions;
      (3)   Pass all ordinances, orders, resolutions, and motions for the
government of the county, in the manner prescribed by I.C. 36-2-4;
      (4)   Receive gifts, bequests, and grants from public or private sources;
      (5)   Conduct investigations into the conduct of county business for the
purpose of correcting deficiencies and insuring adherence to law and county
policies and regulations; and
      (6)   Establish, by ordinance, new county departments, divisions, or
agencies whenever necessary to promote efficient county government.
(I.C. 36-2-3.5-5)
ELECTION DISTRICTS
§ 30.30 ESTABLISHING ELECTION DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Dearborn County is divided into three County Commissioner districts
designated numerically as follows:
      (1)   District 1: This district shall consist of the following voting
precincts: GREENDALE 01, GREENDALE 02, GREENDALE 03, GREENDALE 04, GREENDALE
05, LAWRENCEBURG 01, LAWRENCEBURG 02, LAWRENCEBURG 03, LAWRENCEBURG 04,
LAWRENCEBURG 08, LAWRENCEBURG 09, MILLER 01, MILLER 03, MILLER 06, MILLER 07,
and YORK 01.
      (2)    District 2: This district shall consist of the following voting
precincts: HARRISON 01, HARRISON 02, HARRISON 03, JACKSON 01, KELSO 01, KELSO
02, KELSO 03, LOGAN 01, LOGAN 02, MILLER 02, MILLER 04, and MILLER 05.
      (3)   District 3: This district shall consist of the following voting
precincts: CAESAR CREEK 01, CENTER 01, CENTER 02, CENTER 03, CENTER 04, CENTER
05, CENTER 06,CLAY 01, CLAY 02, CLAY 03, HOGAN 01, MANCHESTER 01, MANCHESTER
02, SPARTA 01, SPARTA 02, SPARTA 03, and WASHINGTON 01.
   (B)   Dearborn County is divided into four County Council single-member
districts designated numerically as follows:
      (1)   District 1: This district shall consist of the following voting
precincts: HARRISON 01, HARRISON 02, HARRISON 03, MILLER 01, MILLER 02, MILLER
03, MILLER 04, MILLER 05, MILLER 06, and MILLER 07.
      (2)   District 2: This district shall consist of the following voting
precincts: GREENDALE 01, GREENDALE 02, GREENDALE 03, GREENDALE 04, GREENDALE
05, LAWRENCEBURG 01, LAWRENCEBURG 02, LAWRENCEBURG 03, LAWRENCEBURG 04,
LAWRENCEBURG 08, LAWRENCEBURG 09, and MANCHESTER 01.
      (3)   District 3: This district shall consist of the following voting
precincts: CAESAR CREEK 01, CENTER 01, CENTER 02, CENTER 03, CENTER 04, CENTER
05, CENTER 06, CLAY 01, CLAY 02, CLAY 03, HOGAN 01, SPARTA 03, and WASHINGTON
01.
      (4)   District 4: This district shall consist of the following voting
precincts: JACKSON 01, KELSO 01, KELSO 02, KELSO 03, LOGAN 01, LOGAN 02,
MANCHESTER 02, SPARTA 01, SPARTA 02, and YORK 01.
(BC Ord. 2011-013, passed 11-1- 11; Am. BC Ord. 2021-011, passed 11-16-21)
CHAPTER 31: SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Vehicle inspection fee
   
31.02   Sheriff’s Reserve Unit
   
31.03   Sex/violent offender registration fees
   
31.04   Accident report fee
   
31.05   Firearms qualifications fee for retired/disabled officers
   
31.06   Retention of service weapon
Sheriff’s Merit Board
   
31.15   Establishment
   
31.16   Organization
   
31.17   Powers and duties
   
31.18   Rules of operation
   
31.19   Policy
Deferred Compensation Plan
   
31.30   Establishment
   
31.31   Participation in group trust arrangement
   
31.32   Implementation
Cross-reference:
   Disposition of property seized by the Dearborn County Sheriff’s Department,
see §
37.27
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 VEHICLE INSPECTION FEE.
   A fee of $5 is hereby established for the services of inspecting a motor
vehicle performed by the County Sheriff, or any member of his Department, which
fee is to be deposited in a special vehicle inspection fund as established by
I.C. 9-29-4-2.
(BC Ord. 13-1988, passed 5-16-88)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 9-29 was repealed by P.L. 86-2018, sec. 149.
§ 31.02 SHERIFF'S RESERVE UNIT.
   (A)   There is hereby established, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20, the County
Police Reserves, which shall be known as the County Sheriff's Reserve Unit.
   (B)   The maximum number of members of the reserve unit shall be 20.
(BC Ord. 1-1995, passed 2-6-95)
§ 31.03 SEX/VIOLENT OFFENDER REGISTRATION FEES.
   (A)   The Dearborn County Sheriff’s Department is hereby authorized to
charge the sum of $50 per year for the registration of sex or violent offenders
and $5 for each time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with
the Dearborn County Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   Dearborn County, Indiana, now establishes a county Sex and Violent
Offender Administration Fund and the Sheriff’s Department shall deposit all
funds collected for sex or violent offender registration fees and address
change fees for sex or violent offenders into this account. The county Auditor
shall monthly transfer 10% of any fees collected to the Treasurer of the State
of Indiana for deposit in the state Sex and Violent Offender Administration
Fund under I.C. 11-8-8-21.
   (C)   The County Council may appropriated money from the county Sex and
Violent Offender Administration Fund to defray the expense of administering or
ensuring compliance with the laws concerning the Indiana Sex and Violent
Offender Registry.
(BC Ord. 2007-12, passed 11-27-07)
§ 31.04 ACCIDENT REPORT FEE.
   The Sheriff's Department is hereby authorized to charge the sum of $12 per
accident report.
(BC Ord. 2008-30, passed 11-25-08)
Cross-reference:
   Accident Report Fund, see §
34.19
§ 31.05 FIREARMS QUALIFICATIONS FEE FOR RETIRED/DISABLED OFFICERS.
   The Sheriff’s Department is permitted to collect a charge of no more than
$10 for services related to providing a qualified retired or disabled officer
with an annual photographic identification card designating the officer as
retired or disabled and indicating the officer has qualified with his firearm
and is in compliance with 18 U.S.C. 926C pursuant to guideline “8-16 Firearms
Qualifications - Retired/Disabled” which has been adopted by the Sheriff’s
Merit Board. The funds collected shall be deposited in account #1156.
(BC Ord. 2012-018, passed 8-21-12)
§ 31.06 RETENTION OF SERVICE WEAPON.
   (A)   If an eligible employee of the Dearborn County Sheriff’s Department
retires after at least 20 years of service, the employee may:
      (1)   Retain the employee’s issued service weapon; and
      (2)   Receive a “retired” badge in recognition of the employee’s service
to the Dearborn County Sheriff’s Department and the public.
   (B)   Upon an eligible employee’s retirement, the Dearborn County Sheriff’s
Department shall issue to the employee an identification card that:
      (1)   Gives the employee’s name and rank;
      (2)   Signifies that the employee is retired; and
      (3)   Notes the employee’s authority to retain the employee’s service
weapon.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, an ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE is an employee who
has:
      (1)   Had at least 20 years of service with the Dearborn County Sheriff’s
Department;
      (2)   Completed all necessary training required for the issuance of a
service weapon; and
      (3)   Retired in good standing from the Dearborn County Sheriff’s
Department.
(BC Ord. 2013-005, passed 3-5-13)
SHERIFF’S MERIT BOARD
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   In accordance with and by the authority of a resolution of the County
Council on December 7, 1972, as authorized by enabling act of Acts of the State
Legislature of 1961, Chapter 285, S.1, and as amended and/or supplemented by
state code and common law, where applicable, and by appointment of the original
serving Merit Board members by the County Sheriff, the County Sheriff’s Merit
Board is hereby created.
   (B)   It is the intent of the County Merit Board to comply with all state
code, common law, and/or any federal provisions as may apply. If any conflicts
or discrepancies arise between or among any citeable legal authorities and the
Rules and Regulations of the County Sheriff’s Merit Board, then, in that event,
the Rules and Regulations of the County Sheriff’s Merit Board shall be
construed, conformed and/or amended according to the referenced legal
authority.
(BC Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-18-00)
Editor’s note:
   The Sheriff’s Merit Board was established by a resolution passed 12-7-72.
Being advised that there might not be an ordinance establishing The Sheriff’s
Merit Board, the County Council passed two ordinances, CC 3-2000 and CC 4-2000,
to ratify its establishment. BC 2000-9 contains the current revised and adopted
rules and regulations of the Board.
§ 31.16 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of five members. Three members shall be
appointed by the Sheriff, and two members shall be elected by a majority vote
of the members of the county police force under procedures established by the
County Sheriff’s Merit Board. However, an active county police officer; a
relative (as defined in I.C. 36-1-20.2-9) of an active county police officer;
or a relative (as defined in I.C. 36-1-20.2-8) of the sheriff; may not serve on
the Board, either as a member appointed by the sheriff or elected by the county
police force. Appointments are for terms of four years or for the remainder of
an unexpired term, however caused. Not more than two of the members appointed
by the Sheriff nor more than one of the members elected by the officers may
belong to the same political party. All County Sheriff’s Merit Board members
must reside in the county. All members serve during their respective terms and
until their successors have been appointed and qualified. A member may be
removed for cause duly adjudicated by declaratory judgment of the County
Circuit Court, County Superior Court, or County Probate Court.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(b))
   (B)   County Merit Board member nominations, by the county police force,
shall be submitted to the Sheriff’s Merit Board by the fourth Wednesday in
October of each statutory election year (as required). No more than two
nominees shall be presented. Elections will be held on the fourth Wednesday in
November. Ballot forms will be provided by the Merit Board. Ties will be
decided by a flip of a coin by the Merit Board President. Should a vacancy
occur during the term of an elected member, the Merit Board shall hold a
special election, consistent with the terms herein, within 60 days to fill the
balance of the term. All nominees shall be of the same political party as the
original elected member.
   (C)   As compensation for service, each member of the board is entitled to
receive from the county a minimum of $15 per day for each day, or fraction of a
day, that the member is engaged in transacting the business of the Board.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3)
   (D)   As soon as practicable after the members of the Board have been
appointed, they shall meet upon the call of the Sheriff and organize by
electing a President and a Secretary from among their membership.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(d))
      (1)   A Vice President may be elected from the membership of the Board.
      (2)   The officers as elected shall serve on an annual basis subject to
renominations as subject to subsequent election and voting procedures as
determined by a majority vote of the Merit Board.
   (E)   At all meetings, three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(d))
   (F)   Expenses of the Board, in direct relation to the county police force,
are to be part of the Sheriff’s budget.
(BC Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-18-00)
§ 31.17 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall hold regular monthly meetings throughout the year as
is necessary to transact the business of the Sheriff’s Department.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(d))
   (B)   The Sheriff, with the approval of the Board, shall establish a
classification of ranks, grades, and positions for county police officers in
the Department.
(I.C. 36-8-10-10(a))
   (C)   For each rank, grade, and position established, the Sheriff, with the
approval of the Board, shall set reasonable standards of qualifications and fix
the prerequisites of training, education, and experience.
(I.C. 36-8-10-10(a))
   (D)   The Sheriff, with the approval of the Board, shall devise and
administer examinations designed to test applicants for the qualifications
required for the respective ranks, grades, or positions. After these
examinations, the Sheriff and the Board shall jointly prepare a list naming
only those applicants who, in the opinion of both the Sheriff and the Board,
best meet the prescribed standards and prerequisites. The Sheriff appoints
county police officers but only from among the persons whose names appear on
this list. All county police officers appointed to the Department under this
subchapter are on probation for a period of one year from the date of
appointment.
(I.C. 36-8-10-10(b))
   (E)   The Merit Board may recommend the number and salary of the personnel,
but the County Fiscal Body shall determine the budget and salaries.
(I.C. 36-8-10-4(b))
   (F)   To conduct fair public hearings (reviewable in the Circuit Court) on
the matter of discharge, demotion, or temporary suspension of more than 15 days
of any county police officer, other than probationers, after charge(s) are
preferred in writing against such member, and after a copy of said charge(s)
is/are delivered to such member by certified mail. The Board shall make
specific findings of fact, in writing, to support its final decision. The Board
has subpoena powers enforceable by the Circuit Court for hearings held under
this authority. An officer on probation can be dismissed by the Sheriff without
a right to a hearing.
(BC Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-18-00)
§ 31.18 RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The County Merit Board shall hold regular monthly meetings throughout
the year as is necessary to transact the business of the Sheriff’s Department.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(d))
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, the Board shall meet at 7:00 p.m. on the
fourth Wednesday of each month at a suitable place as designated by the
President of the Board. The meetings shall be open to the public and said
notice shall be posted on the meeting premises, or otherwise disseminated to
the public, accordingly.
   (C)   Special meetings may be held at any other time or place within the
county whenever called by the president, provided that in such cases each
member is notified at least five days in advance, and said notification shall
include the business to be transacted.
   (D)   A majority of three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum and
be sufficient to pass upon any business before the Board.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(d))
   (E)   At the first regular meeting, and annually thereafter, the members of
the Board shall elect a President and Secretary and a Vice President, if so
desired by the Board, each of whom shall serve one year after such elections.
(I.C. 36-8-10-3(d))
   (F)   The Secretary shall keep a brief but adequate record of the minutes of
all meetings and of all acts and proceedings of the Board, in type or ink, in a
book which shall be surrendered to any succeeding Secretary of the Board.
   (G)   The Secretary shall also prepare and distribute to each Board member
and to the Sheriff a copy of each document presented to the Board that is of a
material nature that should be immediately available to each such member and to
the Sheriff. Any such documents, however, shall remain the property of the
Board and shall be returned to the Board by any member thereof.
   (H)   The Sheriff, with appropriate oversight of the Board Secretary, shall
maintain a personnel file which shall contain a folder for each member of the
Department. Each such folder shall contain copies of all documents pertinent to
the appointment and service of each such member of the Department. The Sheriff
shall make available, at the request of the Secretary, copies of all such
documents.
   (I)   The President of the Board shall preside over all meetings of the
Board and conduct all meetings in the manner usually prescribed for same.
   (J)   The President shall be responsible for the presentation to the Board
of all business required for transacting business by the Board.
   (K)   Any business of the Board may be continued, in whole or in part, to
the next scheduled meeting of the Board.
   (L)   The rules of parliamentary procedure, as set out in Robert’s Rules of
Order, shall govern the procedures(s) of all Board meeting(s); however, the
interpretation by the President of such rules shall prevail, subject to the
concurrence of a majority consensus of those members of the Board present at
said meeting(s).
   (M)   The President of the Board shall preside over all hearings before the
Board concerning charges preferred by the Sheriff to temporarily suspend,
demote, or discharge any county police officer; however, the president, at his
or her discretion, may appoint another Board member to such duty.
   (N)   No such hearings shall be held, however, until after the receipt, by
the President of the Board, of two copies of the charges preferred by the
Sheriff against such county police officer. Such charges shall be in adequate
form and detail, and each copy shall be accompanied by a summary of evidence
supporting the charges and attached thereto. The Sheriff shall prepare three
original copies, in total, retaining one for his or her personal file.
   (O)   Upon receipt of two copies of such charges preferred by the Sheriff,
each accompanied by such summary of evidence supporting the same, the President
of the Board, in consultation with the remaining Board members, shall set a
date, time, and place for such hearing and cause to be delivered to the accused
county police officer, one copy of the charge(s), as preferred by the Sheriff,
a copy of the evidence summary, and a form notice, as to the date, time, and
place of the hearing. All referenced delivery(ies) shall be by certified mail
with return receipt attached. The Sheriff shall also be notified as to the
date, time, and place of the hearing.
   (P)   All referenced hearing(s) shall be held in a reasonably prudent
manner, time and place in accordance with current state code, as may apply.
   (Q)   Subsequent to the receipt of two copies of the charges, as preferred
by the Sheriff and further referenced herein, the President, in consultation
with the remaining Board members, shall set a date for the hearing, not less
than 14 days from the date of the certified mailing to the accused county
police officer, nor more than 30 days subsequent to the referenced receipt
unless reasonable cause has been indicated, in writing, to the Merit Board.
Reasonable cause and further extensions of time shall be solely determined by
the Board.
   (R)   All referenced hearing(s) will generally follow the usual dictates of
state rules of trial procedure(s) concerning opening statements, presentations
of evidence, rebuttal and arguments, except that the Board, at the discretion
of the President or any member appointed by the President to preside over such
hearing(s), may accept and/or admit for the record evidence not necessarily
admissible under normal trial procedure(s). It is the intent of the Board to
establish an orderly process for any referenced hearing(s) to facilitate a fair
and unbiased hearing process for any accused county police officer and the
Sheriff. Both the accused county police officer and the Sheriff will be allowed
to fully present their respective cases before the Board.
   (S)   At such referenced hearing(s), the accused county police officer,
against whom charges have been preferred by the Sheriff, may represent him or
herself, or he or she may be represented by legal counsel. The Sheriff, or
other person appointed by him, shall present the evidence against the accused
county police officer.
   (T)   A record shall be kept of the proceedings of such hearing(s) and
certified by the Secretary of the Board. The Board will arrange for a court
reporter to keep the record of the hearing(s) and to prepare a transcript in
the event of an appeal hereunder. The Board may in its sole discretion or upon
the motion of either the Sheriff or the accused county police officer order a
separation of witnesses. The Board shall make specific findings of fact to
support its decision. The Board shall only consider evidence that is introduced
by the parties and entered into the official record of the hearing(s).
   (U)   Upon completion of any referenced hearing(s), the Merit Board shall
hold an executive session to deliberate on the evidence presented during the
hearing, and then shall hold a subsequently scheduled public meeting to render
a final decision. The decision of the Board shall be by majority vote and shall
be evidenced by all Merit Board members attesting to their individual votes.
The accused county police officer shall also be notified in writing of the
decision of the Board. The President will confirm the decision, in writing,
within ten days subsequent to the completion of the referenced hearing. Four
original copies will be produced: certified mailings will be made to the
accused county police officer, his or her legal counsel (if applicable), the
Sheriff, and an original copy retained for the Secretary’s Board file. Should
the decision be adverse to the interests of the accused county police officer,
he or she will be advised that he or she can appeal the decision within 30 days
after the decision is rendered. The appeal process is guided by state code.
   (V)   When the Sheriff desires to promote a county police officer of the
Department to superior rank, grade or position, he or she shall submit to the
Board the following documents for their review and approval:
      (1)   A letter of recommendation for such promotion;
      (2)   A document showing such county police officer’s rating and that of
others who desire the promotion as determined by examination and other
qualifying determinations set by the Sheriff with prior approval of the Board;
      (3)   A waiver (if applicable) request for each deficiency of
requirements for such rank, grade or position previously set by the Sheriff
with prior approval of the Board; and
      (4)   When the Sheriff desires to classify, reclassify or otherwise
change the ranks, grades or positions within the department, he or she shall
deliver to the Board said classifications, reclassifications or other proposed
changes for their review and approval.
   (W)   When the Sheriff desires to set or change the standards or
prerequisites of training, education or experience for each rank, grade or
position within the Department, he or she shall deliver to the Board, for their
review and approval, copies of said standards and prerequisites along with his
or her recommendation(s) for the same, setting forth his or her reason(s).
   (X)   When the Sheriff desires to devise, administer or change the
examinations for any or all ranks, grades or positions in the Department, he or
she shall deliver to the Board, for their review and approval, copies of said
examinations and plans for administration of said examinations, along with his
or her recommendations in writing, setting out the reason(s) for the same.
   (Y)   When the Sheriff desires to set or change the number of personnel in/
for the Department, he or she shall deliver to the Board, for their review and
approval, a document setting forth the number of personnel desired and his or
her reason(s) for setting said number.
(BC Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-18-00)
§ 31.19 POLICY.
   It will be the policy of the County Sheriff’s Merit Board to cooperate with
the County Sheriff in a cooperative and professional demeanor and to represent
the interests of all county police officers in a fair and unbiased manner.
(BC Ord. 2000-9, passed 9-18-00)
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
§ 31.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The County Commissioners hereby establish a deferred compensation plan for
the Sheriff’s Department to allow for the voluntary participation of its
employees.
(BC Ord. 29-2008, passed 11-18-08)
§ 31.31 PARTICIPATION IN GROUP TRUST ARRANGEMENT.
   (A)   The Sheriff’s Department will utilize the deferred compensation plan
established by county sheriffs’ departments in Indiana known as the Indiana
Sheriffs’ 457(b) Plan, and participate in the group trust arrangement
established by that deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   The Sheriff is authorized to sign the adoption agreement to
participate in the deferred compensation plan.
(BC Ord. 29-2008, passed 11-18-08)
§ 31.32 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The County Commissioners hereby authorize the County Auditor to make
deductions from the pay of employees of the Sheriff’s Department who
voluntarily participate in the deferred compensation plan, and to deposit the
deferrals in the trust.
   (B)   The County Commissioners also authorize the committee made up of
representatives of the sheriffs’ departments participating in the plan (as
determined by participating sheriffs’ departments) to make such other
arrangements as are necessary to implement the plan.
   (C)   It is understood that, other than the incidental expenses related to
collecting the employees' deferrals and other minor administrative matters,
there is to be no cost to or contribution by the county to this plan.
(BC Ord. 29-2008, passed 11-18-08)
CHAPTER 32: OTHER DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Communications Board
   
32.001   Title
   
32.002   Terminology
   
32.003   Establishment
   
32.004   Purpose
   
32.005   Coordinator
   
32.006   Membership of Board
   
32.007   Procedures
   
32.008   Responsibilities
Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission
   
32.020   Establishment; membership
   
32.021   Terms; vacancies; removal for cause
   
32.022   Salary not permitted; reimbursement
   
32.023   Organization; meetings; quorum; majority vote necessary
   
32.024   Powers; expenditures; budget
   
32.025   Oath; compliance with federal and state laws
   
32.026   Unauthorized transfer or use of funds
   
32.027   Effective date
Department of Economic Development
   
32.035   Establishment; Commission
   
32.036   Governance by state law
Health Department
   
32.040   Fees
   
32.041   Medical Reserve Corps
Health Department Donations Commission
   
32.050   Establishment
   
32.051   Compensation
   
32.052   Establishment of receipts line item
   
32.053   Powers of Commission
   
32.054   Receipts and disbursements of money
Housing Authority
   
32.065   Establishment; membership
   
32.066   Area to be governed
Park and Recreation Board
   
32.080   Establishment
   
32.081   Membership
   
32.082   Officers
   
32.083   Powers and duties
   
32.084   Budgets and gifts
Plan Commission
   
32.095   Recording of surveys
Purchasing Agency
   
32.110   Establishment; powers and duties
   
32.111   Membership
   
32.112   Purchasing Regulations
Farm Board
   
32.115   Establishment; membership
   
32.116   Purpose
Cemetery Commission
   
32.130   Title
   
32.131   Definitions
   
32.132   Duties
   
32.133   Authority
   
32.134   Membership
Southeast Indiana Regional Port Authority
   
32.145   Establishment of a port authority
   
32.146   Board of Directors
   
32.147   Procedure
   
32.148   Compensation of Board Members
   
32.149   Emergency clause
   
32.150   Re-establishment of Southeast Indiana Regional Port Authority
COMMUNICATIONS BOARD
§ 32.001 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the Dearborn County Communications Ordinance, and may be cited as
such.
(BC Ord. 5-1995, passed 4-17-95)
§ 32.002 TERMINOLOGY.
   The terms “Dearborn County Commissioners,” “County Commissioners,”
“Commissioners” and “Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County” are all
intended to mean the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County, Indiana.
(BC Ord. 5-1995, passed 4-17-95)
§ 32.003 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a board to be known as the County
Communications Board with purposes, membership, duties, and responsibilities as
set forth herein.
   (B)   The Communications Board shall be responsible for all matters relating
to the daily operation of E911, the enforcement of standard operating
procedure, and coordinating all other communications functions performed by the
county and shall assist the county local emergency planning committee, county
emergency management agency, and other county departments on questions of
communications.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners shall have the ultimate
responsibility for communications in the county.
(BC Ord. 5-1995, passed 4-17-95; Am. BC Ord. 8-1997, passed 5-5-97)
§ 32.004 PURPOSE.
   The Communications Board shall provide the County Commissioners with
information, data, studies, suggestions, and recommendations for and involving
the operation of the Dearborn County Communications Center.
(BC Ord. 5-1995, passed 4-17-95; Am. BC Ord. 8-1997, passed 5-5-97)
§ 32.005 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the position of County Communications
Coordinator.
   (B)   The Communications Coordinator shall be employed by the Board of
Commissioners and shall be responsible for the operation of the County
Communication Center. The Coordinator shall report to the County Communications
Board regarding the daily operation of the Center, and shall consult with the
Communications Board and Commissioners concerning the policies and procedures
for the operation of the Center.
   (C)   The Communications Coordinator will be compensated in an amount set by
the County Commissioners and appropriated by the County Council.
   (D)   The Communications Coordinator shall be considered a county employee
and shall be entitled to all the rights and benefits as other county employees,
as established from time to time by the Commissioners and County Council. The
Communications Coordinator shall be bound by any personnel policy established
by Dearborn County applicable to other county employees.
   (E)   Compensation for the Communications Coordinator and expenses related
to the position and the Communications Board shall be payable from money
appropriated from County General Fund and E911 funds available to the county.
(BC Ord. 5-1995, passed 4-17-95; Am. BC Ord. 8-1997, passed 5-5-97)
§ 32.006 MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD.
      (1)   Two members shall represent police departments of the county, and
one of these shall be the County Sheriff. The other shall be nominated by the
police chiefs of the various police departments in the county and submitted to
the Commissioners for approval.
      (2)   Two members shall represent the Dearborn County Fire Chiefs
Association, to be nominated by them and submitted to the Commissioners for
approval.
      (3)   Two members shall represent county emergency medical providers
consisting of life squads or other emergency medical care units organized in
and providing services to the county, to be nominated by agreement of the
captains or presidents of such units and submitted to the Commissioners for
approval.
      (4)   One member shall be the Director of the Dearborn County Emergency
Management Agency.
   (B)   The terms of the members shall be as follows:
      (1)   The term of the Sheriff on the Communications Board shall coincide
with their elected term.
      (2)   The term of the other person representing the police departments
shall initially be for two years, and shall thereafter be for four years.
      (3)   The term for one of the persons representing the Fire Chiefs shall
be for one year, and the other for three years, and thereafter the terms for
each shall be four years.
      (4)   The term for one of the persons representing the emergency medical
providers shall be for two years, and the other for three years, and thereafter
the terms for each shall be four years.
      (5)   The Director of the Dearborn County Emergency Management Agency
shall be a member of the Communications Board so long as they are appointed
Director of the Emergency Management Agency.
   (C)   The Commissioners shall approve the nominations required to be
submitted to them or reject any nomination and request the nominating group to
submit an additional nomination or nominations for appointment to the
Communications Board. The Commissioners may remove any member, except the
Sheriff, for cause, the person proposed to be removed as a member shall be
entitled to notice and a hearing before the Commissioners within ten days of
such notice, if requested by such person. The decision of the Commissioners
shall be final and binding.
   (D)   The members of the Communications Board shall serve without
compensation but may be reimbursed for their expenses in connection with their
service.
(BC Ord. 5-1995, passed 4-17-95; Am. BC Ord. 2020-003, passed 2-18-20)
§ 32.007 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Communications Board shall meet as needed, but shall not meet less
often than quarterly during each calendar year. The Board shall also meet at
the call of the Chairperson, or at the request of a majority of the members,
upon 48 hours notice to all members. Communications Board members shall have a
responsibility to attend meetings.
   (B)   The Communications Board shall elect a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson,
and Secretary, who shall serve for one year terms, or until their successor has
been elected.
   (C)   The Communications Board shall keep minutes of each meeting, and a
copy shall be provided to each member prior to the next regularly scheduled
meeting and a copy shall be provided to each of the County Commissioners.
   (D)   A quorum shall be a majority of the total voting membership of the
Board, and decisions shall be made by majority vote of those members attending
any meeting of the Board at which there is a quorum. No voting shall be
conducted by proxy.
(BC Ord. 5-1995, passed 4-17-95; Am. BC Ord. 8-1997, passed 5-5-97)
§ 32.008 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Communications Board shall receive applications for the position
of Communications Coordinator, shall review the applications, shall interview
prospective employees, and shall provide a list of the top five applicants, at
a maximum, to the Commissioners, along with a summary of the qualifications of
each and the recommendation of the Board, if any.
   (B)   The Communications Board shall assist in the development of the job
description for the Communications Coordinator and the duties and
responsibilities of that position. It is the responsibility of the Board to
develop, maintain, and recommend standard operating procedures to the
Commissioners for approval.
   (C)   The Communications Board shall serve as the immediate supervisor of
the Communications Coordinator. The Communications Board may recommend removal
of the Coordinator to the Commissioners.
   (D)   The Communications Board shall review the recommendations of the
Communications Coordinator for the annual budget and shall submit its budget
recommendation to the Commissioners annually.
   (E)   The Communications Board shall prepare, with the assistance of the
Communications Coordinator, a ten-year capital improvements program, including
estimates of costs of construction and staffing. The capital improvements
program shall be submitted initially to the County Commissioners no later than
the first anniversary of BC Ord. 5-1995, and shall be updated annually with a
report submitted to the Commissioners as the first meeting of the Commissioners
following the completion of the annual update.
(BC Ord. 5-1995, passed 4-17-95; Am. BC Ord. 8-1997, passed 5-5-97)
CONVENTION, VISITOR AND TOURISM COMMISSION
§ 32.020 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The County Convention, Visitor and Tourism Commission was established
on December 4, 1995.
   (B)   The Commission shall be comprised of seven members.
   (C)   A simple majority of the members must be:
      (1)   Engaged in a convention, visitor or tourism business; or
      (2)   Involved in or promoting conventions, visitors or tourism.
   (D)   At least two of the members must be engaged in the business of renting
or furnishing rooms, lodging or accommodations (as described in I.C. 6-9-18-3).
   (E)   Not more than one member may be affiliated with the same business
entity.
   (F)   Each member must reside in the county except that a member appointed
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) above must only be a resident of the State of
Indiana is the member is an owner or executive level employee of a convention,
visitor, or tourism business that is located in the county.
   (G)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners shall appoint four of the
members of the Commission.
   (H)   The Dearborn County Council shall appoint one of its members to serve
on the Commission.
   (I)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-9-18-5(b), the Mayor of Lawrenceburg shall appoint
one member of the Commission.
   (J)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-9-18-5(c), the Mayor of Greendale shall appoint one
member of the Commission.
(BC Ord. 2013-017, passed 9-17-13; Am. BC Ord. 2021-001, passed 2-2-21)
§ 32.021 TERMS; VACANCIES; REMOVAL FOR CAUSE.
   (A)   All terms of office of Commission members begin on January 1.
   (B)   Initial appointments must be for staggered terms, with subsequent
appointments for two-year terms.
   (C)   In order to ensure that the terms of the Commission members terms are
staggered, the four initial appointments of the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners shall be for a one-year term. Subsequent appointments for these
four Commission members will be for two years.
   (D)   The appointed member of the Dearborn County Council and the
appointments by the Mayors of Lawrenceburg and Greendale shall be for two- year
terms and shall continue as two-year terms thenceforth.
   (E)   A member whose term expires may be reappointed to serve another term.
   (F)   If a vacancy occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a
qualified person to serve for the remainder of the term.
   (G)   If an initial appointment is not made by February 1, or a vacancy is
not filled within 30 days, the Commission shall appoint a member by majority
vote.
   (H)   A member of the Commission may be removed for cause by his or her
appointing authority.
(BC Ord. 2013-017, passed 9-17-13)
§ 32.022 SALARY NOT PERMITTED; REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Members of the Commission may not receive a salary.
   (B)   Commission members are entitled to reimbursement for necessary
expenses incurred in the performance of their respective duties.
(BC Ord. 2013-017, passed 9-17-13)
§ 32.023 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; QUORUM; MAJORITY VOTE NECESSARY.
   (A)   The Commission shall meet after January 1 each year for the purpose of
organization.
   (B)   It shall elect one of its members President, another Vice President,
another Secretary, and another Treasurer.
   (C)   The members elected to the offices listed above shall perform the
duties pertaining to those offices.
   (D)   The officers chosen shall serve from the date of their election until
their successors are elected and qualified.
   (E)   The Commission shall meet at least quarterly; however, the Commission
may elect to meet on a more frequent basis.
   (F)   A majority of the Commission constitutes a quorum; however, the
concurrence of a majority of the Commission is necessary to authorize any
action.
(BC Ord. 2013-017, passed 9-17-13)
§ 32.024 POWERS; EXPENDITURES; BUDGET.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 6-9-18-6(a), the Commission may:
      (1)   Accept and use gifts, grants, and contributions from any public or
private source, under terms and conditions that the Commission considers
necessary and desirable;
      (2)   Sue and be sued;
      (3)   Enter into contracts and agreements;
      (4)   Make rules necessary for the conduct of its business and the
accomplishment of its purposes;
      (5)   Receive and approve, alter, or reject requests and proposals for
funding by corporations qualified under division (A)(6) below;
      (6)   After its approval of a proposal, transfer money, quarterly or less
frequently, from the fund established under I.C. 6-9-18-4(a), or from money
transferred from that fund to the Commission’s treasurer under I.C. 6-9-18-4
(b), to any Indiana not-for-profit corporation to promote and encourage
conventions, visitors, or tourism in Dearborn County; and
      (7)   Require financial or other reports from any corporation that
receives funds under this chapter.
   (B)   All expenses of the Commission shall be paid from the fund established
under I.C. 6-9-18-4(a) or from money transferred from that fund to the
Commission’s treasurer under I.C. 6-9-18-4(b).
   (C)   An expenditure may not be made under this subchapter unless it is in
accordance with an appropriation made by the Dearborn County Council in the
manner provided by law.
   (D)   The Commission shall annually prepare a budget, taking into
consideration the recommendations made by a corporation qualified under
division (A)(6) above, and submit it to the Dearborn County Council for its
review and approval.
(BC Ord. 2013-017, passed 9-17-13)
§ 32.025 OATH; COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAWS.
   (A)   Each Commission member, before entering his or her duties, shall take
an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon his or her certificate
of appointment and promptly filed with the Clerk of the Dearborn Circuit Court.
   (B)   The Commission is a governmental body and, as such, shall comply with
all federal and state laws including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Indiana “Open Door Law” (I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq.);
      (2)   Indiana “Access to Public Records” law (I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.);
      (3)   Indiana “Publication of Notices” law (I.C. 5-3-1 et seq.);
      (4)   Indiana “Nepotism” law (I.C. 36-1-20.2-1 et seq.); and
      (5)   Indiana “Conflict of Interest” law (I.C. 35-44.1-1-4).
   (C)   All money coming into possession of the Commission shall be deposited,
held, secured, invested, and paid in accordance with statutes relating to the
handling of public funds.
   (D)   The handling and expenditure of money coming into possession of the
Commission is subject to audit and supervision by the State Board of Accounts.
(BC Ord. 2013-017, passed 9-17-13)
§ 32.026 UNAUTHORIZED TRANSFER OR USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 6-9-18-8, a member of the Commission who knowingly:
      (1)   Approves the transfer of money to any person or corporation not
qualified under law for that transfer; or
      (2)   Approves a transfer for a purpose not permitted under law; commits
a Class D felony.
   (B)   A person who receives a transfer of money under this subchapter and
knowingly uses that money for any purpose not permitted under this subchapter
commits a Class D felony.
(BC Ord. 2013-017, passed 9-17-13)
§ 32.027 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   All provisions of this subchapter shall take effect immediately upon
passage by the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   If the current make-up of the Commission does not meet the
requirements of this subchapter and state statutes, the President of the
Commission shall immediately notify the Dearborn County Administrator so that
the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may make the necessary changes for
the remainder of the year 2013.
   (C)   Beginning on January 1, 2014 and continuing thereafter, all
appointments shall be made in accordance with this subchapter and state
statutes.
(BC Ord. 2013-017, passed 9-17-13)
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 32.035 ESTABLISHMENT; COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Department of Economic Development is hereby established.
   (B)   The Department of Economic Development shall be controlled by a
commission known as the County Economic Development Commission.
   (C)   The appointment of members of the Commission shall be governed by I.C.
36-7-12 et seq.
   (D)   Any officer of the county is hereby authorized and directed, for and
on behalf of the county, to execute and deliver any instrument or take any
other action as such officer determines to be necessary or desirable to
accomplish the purposes of this subsection, such determination to be
conclusively evidenced by such officer’s having executed such instrument or
having taken such action, and any such officer’s having executed and delivered
any such instrument or having taken any such action is hereby ratified and
approve.
(CC Ord. 2-1997, passed 6-12-97; Am. CC Ord. 2013-003, passed 9-17-13)
§ 32.036 GOVERNANCE BY STATE LAW.
   In all other respects, the Department of Economic Development and the
Economic Development Commission shall be governed by I.C. 36-7-12-1 et seq. or
as subsequently amended by the Indiana Legislature.
(CC Ord. 2-1997, passed 6-12-97)
HEALTH DEPARTMENT
§ 32.040 FEES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted in I.C. 16-20-1-27, the Board of the
Health Department, with the approval of Council, establishes and collects the
following fees.
   (A)   Vital records fees.
      (1)   Birth certificate         $15
      (2)   Death certificate, long form      $30
      (3)   Death certificate, short form   $20
      (4)   Paternity affidavit         $50
      (5)   Birth certificate amendment   $25
      (6)   Exceptions. Pursuant to I.C. 16-37-1-9(c), a charge may not be made
for furnishing a certificate of birth, death, or stillbirth registration to a
person or to a member of the family of a person who needs the certificate for
one of the following purposes:
         (a)   To establish the person’s age or the dependency of a member of
the person’s family in connection with:
            1.   The person’s service in the armed forces of the United States;
or
            2.   A death pension or disability pension of a person who is
serving or has served in the armed forces of the United States.
         (b)   Pursuant to I.C. 16-37-1-9(d), a charge may not be made for
furnishing a certificate of birth to an individual who represents, pursuant to
I.C. 31-36-3-4(b), a homeless youth (as defined in I.C. 31-36-3-4) and presents
a fee and consent waiver affidavit described in I.C. 31-36-3-4(c).
   (B)   Immunization fees
      (1)   Establishment of fees. 
         (a)   The County Department of Health hereby establishes fees for
public health services as described herein.
         (b)   All charges for services/tests will be assessed to clients
depending on applicability as follows:
            1.   At the true cost to provide the service; or
            2.   At the current Federal Medicaid/Medicare or comparable
reimbursement rate; or
            3.   A lesser value determined to be reasonable. In no event will
the fees be greater than the actual cost to provide the service/test.
         (c)   The price policy for immunizations will be posted and the
collected fees will revert into the Health Fund.
      (2)   Vaccines available for private purchase.  Adults over 18 years of
age who request the following vaccines:
         (a)   Td                        $25
         (b)   Tdap                        $35
         (c)   Hepatitis B                     $40/dose/three-dose series
         (d)   Hepatitis A                     $35/dose/two-dose series
         (e)   IPV                        $30
         (f)   Menactra                     $110
         (g)   Pneumococcal (PPSV23)               $65
         (h)   Prevnar13                     $155
         (i)   Flu                        $10
         (j)   Shingles                     $200
         (k)   MMR                        $60
         (l)   Typhoid                     $60
         (m)   Varicella                     $95
      (3)   TB test. The current cost of a TB test is $10.
   (C)   Onsite sewage disposal fees.
      (1)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ANNUAL HOLDING TANK OPERATING PERMIT. An annual permit for maintaining
and operating a wastewater holding tank to be used solely for the purpose of
maintaining wastewater in a sanitary manner and is on a service contract with a
registered service provider.
         ANNUAL ONSITE SYSTEM OPERATING PERMITS. An annual operating permit for
onsite  systems requiring a maintenance contract.
         COMMERCIAL ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM or ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SYSTEM (OSDS). All equipment and devices necessary for proper conduction,
collection, storage, treatment, and onsite disposal of sewage from other than
one-family or two-family dwellings, except where such dwellings are connected
to a cluster system. However, an onsite sewage system serving two single-family
dwellings on the same property, with a combined daily design flow (DDF) of less
than or equal to 750 gallons per day, is a residential onsite sewage system,
not a commercial onsite sewage system. Included within, but not limited to, the
scope of this definition is building sewers, grease traps, septic tanks, dosing
tanks, absorption fields, perimeter drains, vault privies, and temporary sewage
holding tanks serving commercial facilities.
         COMMERCIAL ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM PERMIT. A permit for the installation
of a commercial onsite sewage system.
         COMMERCIAL ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM REPAIR PERMIT. A permit for the
installation of a commercial onsite sewage system repair.
         COMMERCIAL ONSITE SYSTEM REPLACEMENT PERMIT. A permit for the
installation of a commercial onsite sewage system replacement.
         DEPARTMENT. The Dearborn County Health Department.
         DISPOSAL CONNECTION APPLICATION FEE. The fee for department staff to
verify arrangements for a sanitary sewer connection has been secured by the
applicant as per BC Ordinance 3-1997.
         EXISTING ONSITE SYSTEM PERFORMANCE REVIEW. The review of an existing
onsite sewage disposal system (OSDS) at the request of the applicant, for its
ability to meet the Rules and Regulations of Indiana and to comply with the
requirements of a regional sewer district or similar agency.
         INITIAL SITE VISIT FOR ONSITE SYSTEM INSTALLATION REVIEW. The initial
site visit request by an applicant for the installation of a new, repair, or
replacement onsite sewage disposal system. This term shall also apply for the
initial site visit request for verification that a proposed outbuilding or
residential or commercial expansion location does not interfere with the
existing onsite system.
         ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL INSTALLER. Any person engaged in the
construction, installation, repair, or replacement of any component of an
onsite sewage disposal system (OSDS).
         ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (OSDS) REPAIR. The repair or replacement
of any OSDS component other than the replacement or expansion of a soil
absorption field.
         ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (OSDS) REPLACEMENT. The replacement or
expansion of a soil absorption field.
         ONSITE SYSTEM PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW. An application filed with all
pertinent
information for onsite system permit issuance review.
         REGISTERED ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL INSTALLER. An onsite sewage disposal
installer who has completed an application and has passed a written proficiency
test as administered by the department.
         REGISTERED ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL INSTALLER ANNUAL FEE. The annual fee
for a registered onsite sewage disposal installer starting on January 1 of the
year of registration and ending on December 3l of the year of registration.
         RESIDENTIAL ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM or ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SYSTEM (OSDS). All equipment and devices necessary for proper conduction,
collection, storage, treatment, and onsite disposal of sewage from:
            1.   A one or two family dwelling;
            2.   A residential outbuilding; or
            3.   Two single-family dwellings on the same property with a
combined daily design flow (DDF) of less than or equal to 750 gallons per day.
The term includes, but is not limited to, residential sewers, septic tanks,
soil absorption systems, temporary sewage holding tanks, and sanitary vault
privies.
         RESIDENTIAL ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM PERMIT. A permit for the installation
of a residential onsite sewage system.
         RESIDENTIAL ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM REPAIR PERMIT. A permit for the
installation of a residential onsite sewage system repair.
         RESIDENTIAL ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM REPLACEMENT PERMIT. A permit for the
installation of a residential onsite sewage system replacement.
      (2)   Fees.
         (a)   Residential onsite system permit            $250
         (b)   Commercial onsite system permit            $250
         (c)   Residential onsite system repair permit         $100
         (d)   Residential onsite system replacement permit      $100
         (e)   Commercial onsite system repair permit         $250
         (f)   Commercial onsite system replacement permit      $250
         (g)   Annual onsite system operating permit         $250
         (h)   Annual holding tank operating permit         $250
         (i)   Registered onsite installer annual fee         $100
         (j)   Initial onsite sewage disposal system site visit      $25
         (k)   Onsite system permit application review         $25
         (l)   Disposal connection application fee         $25
         (m)   Initial site visit for onsite system installation review   $25
         (n)   Existing onsite system performance review      $250
(BC Ord. 2008-13, passed 6-17-08; Am. BC Ord. 2014-005, passed 5-7- 14; Am. CC
Ord. 2016-004, passed 2-23-16; Am. CC Ord. 2016-005, passed 2-23-16; Am. CC
Ord. 2016-006, passed 2-23-16; Am. CC Ord. 2017-004, passed 11-28-17; Am. BC
Ord. 2023-008, passed 10-3-23)
Cross-reference:
   For retail food service permit fees, see §§
110.40 et seq.
§ 32.041 MEDICAL RESERVE CORPS.
   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners find that the Dearborn County
Medical Reserve Corps shall be considered a part of the Dearborn County Health
Department and shall work as an auxiliary support system for the Health
Department during both emergency and health situations in our county.
Furthermore, the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners reaffirm the
appointment of Ginny Daum as head of the Medical Reserve Corps.
(BC Res. 2011-005, passed 4-5-11)
HEALTH DEPARTMENT DONATIONS COMMISSION
§ 32.050 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A commission is hereby established for the purpose of managing,
administering and directing disbursements of money received and accepted from
gifts, grants, donations, contributions and/or bequests designated by donors
thereof to be used for the County Health Department. The commission shall be
known as the Health Department Donations Commission, and shall consist of seven
members, each of whom shall be the members of the Board of Health of the
county.
(BC Ord. 7-1989, passed 9-18-89)
§ 32.051 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Health Department Donations Commission shall not receive a
salary or other compensation for the performance of their respective duties.
(BC Ord. 7-1989, passed 9-18-89)
§ 32.052 ESTABLISHMENT OF RECEIPTS LINE ITEM.
   A receipts line item shall be established within a donations fund maintained
by the County Auditor for the purpose of accounting for money received from
gifts, grants, donations, contributions and/or bequests designated to be used
for the County Health Department, which are accepted by the Health Department
Donations Commission. The County Auditor shall deposit in said donations fund
all amounts received for such purposes and accepted by the Health Department
Donations Commission, and shall keep a record of such amounts received and
disbursed in said receipts line item established for such purposes. The County
Auditor shall issue a warrant directing the County Treasurer to disburse money
from said fund only upon the written direction and authority of the Health
Department Donations Commission.
(BC Ord. 7-1989, passed 9-18-89)
§ 32.053 POWERS OF COMMISSION.
   The Health Department Donations Commission may accept gifts, grants,
donations, contributions and/or bequests from any public or private source for
the uses and purposes designated by the donors thereof to be used for the
Dearborn County Health Department, which the Commission may consider
appropriate, necessary or desirable. The Commission shall receive and approve,
alter or reject requests and proposals for the use of money received and
accepted for such purposes.
(BC Ord. 7-1989, passed 9-18-89)
§ 32.054 RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS OF MONEY.
   All money received and accepted by the Health Department Donations Fund
Commission shall be deposited, held, secured and paid without appropriation
upon approval of the Health Department Donations Commission. The handling and
expenditure of such money shall be subject to audit and supervision by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts.
(BC Ord. 7-1989, passed 9-18-89)
HOUSING AUTHORITY
§ 32.065 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby established a County Housing Authority consisting of five
members designated as Commissioners who shall be residents of the county. The
terms of such Commissioners shall be as established by I.C. 36-7-18-7. The
Housing Authority shall constitute a municipal corporation and shall perform
all the duties and have all the powers granted to it by I.C. 36-7-18.
   (A)   The members of the Authority shall select a Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson, and adopt by-laws, rules and regulations as provided by statute.
   (B)   Commissioners shall receive no salary paid out of county funds or
monies appropriated to the Housing Authority, but may be compensated in the
amount to which they are entitled under I.C. 36-7-18-8 out of other corporate
monies or revenues of the Housing Authority.
   (C)   Commissioners may be removed for causes set out in the appropriate
statutes.
   (D)   No Commissioner or employee may acquire any interest in any plan,
project or contract of the Authority. In the event that any such Commissioner
shall acquire any interest in any such project, a complete written report shall
be entered upon the minutes of the Authority.
   (E)   The Authority shall present an annual report to the County Council at
the Council meeting in January of each year for the year immediately preceding.
(CC Res. passed 7-18-95)
§ 32.066 AREA TO BE GOVERNED.
   The area to be governed by the Housing Authority is all of the county except
for those areas located within the corporate boundaries of the incorporated
cities and towns within the county.
(CC Res. passed 7-18-95)
PARK AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 32.080 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3 there is hereby created a County
Department of Parks and Recreation.
(CC Ord. passed 11-20-82)
§ 32.081 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A Park and Recreation Board shall be created composed of:
      (1)   Two members appointed by the judge of the circuit court.
      (2)   One member appointed by the County Commissioners.
      (3)   Two members appointed by the County Council.
   (B)   Members appointed under divisions (A)(1), (2) and (3) of this section
shall be appointed on the basis of their interest in and knowledge of parks and
recreation but no more than one member appointed under divisions (A)(1) and (3)
shall be affiliated with the same political party.
   (C)   The extension agent shall serve as an ex officio board member.
   (D)   Ex officio board members have all the rights of regular members,
including the right to vote.
   (E)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms of members shall be as
follows:
      (1)   The appointments by the circuit court judge shall be one- and
three-year terms respectively.
      (2)   The appointment by the County Commissioners shall be for a two-year
term.
      (3)   The appointments by the County Council shall be for two- and four-
year terms respectively.
   (F)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be for a four-year term.
All terms shall expire on the first Monday in January, but a member shall
continue in office until his or her successor is appointed. The appointing
authorities shall make initial appointments within 90 days after the creation
of the Department. If an appointment for any new term is not made by the first
Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a vacancy on the
Board occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a person to serve for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
(CC Ord. passed 11-20-82)
§ 32.082 OFFICERS.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Park and Recreation Board
shall elect a President and a Vice-President. The Vice President shall have
authority to act as the President of the Board during the absence or disability
of the President. The Board may select a Secretary either from within or
without its own membership.
(CC Ord. passed 11-20-82)
§ 32.083 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Park and Recreation Board shall have the power to perform all acts
necessary to acquire and develop sites and facilities and to conduct such
programs as are generally understood to be park and recreation functions. In
addition the Board shall have all the powers and duties listed in I.C. 36-10-3.
(CC Ord. passed 11-20-82)
§ 32.084 BUDGETS AND GIFTS.
   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as
other departments of county government as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donation, and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
(CC Ord. passed 11-20-82)
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 32.095 RECORDING OF SURVEYS.
   (A)   The County Plan Commission office is hereby designated a part of the
County Recorder's office for the purposes of recording certified surveys which
are currently required to be submitted to the office under existing county
ordinances, designated a part of the County Recorder's office.
   (B)   The Enforcement Officer for the County Plan Commission is hereby
designated as a Deputy Recorder for the purpose of receiving these certified
surveys, properly stamping them, indexing them, and causing them to be placed
of record in the manner as shall be determined by the County Recorder.
   (C)   No additional fee shall be charged for this recording above that
currently being charged for recording the certified surveys.
   (D)   The Enforcement Officer as a Deputy Recorder shall receive no
additional compensation since the work performed will be the same as that which
is currently being performed by that Officer.
   (E)   The certified surveys, subdivision plats, or any other surveys for
those areas located within incorporated cities or towns in the county, not
currently required to be filled by the County Recorder in her existing office.
All other subdivision plats shall continue to be filed in the existing
Recorder's office.
(BC Res. passed 2-6-89)
PURCHASING AGENCY
§ 32.110 ESTABLISHMENT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Dearborn County Purchasing Agency is established as the purchasing
agency for the County.
   (B)   The Purchasing Agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be supplemented from time to time by ordinances adopted
by the Board of Commissioners and policies adopted by the Purchasing Agency.
   (C)   The Purchasing Agency shall act as the purchasing agency for every
agency, board, office branch, bureau, commissioner, council, department or
other establishment of the county, including each elected county official, the
Circuit and Superior courts of the county, and the County Prosecuting Attorney.
   (D)   The Purchasing Agency may designate as purchasing agents:
      (1)   Each elected county official;
      (2)   Each Circuit and Superior Court judge;
      (3)   The County Highway Supervisor and County Highway Engineer; and
      (4)   Such county employees as are designated in writing from time to
time.
(BC Ord. 10-1998, passed 6-25-98; Am. BC Ord. 01-2010, passed 4-6-10; Am. BC
Ord. 2011-005, passed 4-19-11)
§ 32.111 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The following shall serve as purchasing agents for the county:
   (1)   Each elected county official;
   (2)   Each Circuit and Superior Court judge;
   (3)   The County Highway Supervisor and county Highway Engineer; and
   (4)   Such county employees as are designated in writing from time to time.
(BC Ord. 11-1998, passed 6-25-98; Am. BC Ord. 01-2010, passed 4-6-10; Am. BC
Ord. 2011-005, passed 4-19-11)
§ 32.112 PURCHASING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost of
less than $25,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes or
bids.
(BC Ord. 12-1998, passed 6-25-98; Am. BC Ord. 01-2010, passed 4-6-10; Am. BC
Ord. 2011-005, passed 4-19-11)
   (B)   Each agency and department may contract for services that are needed;
however, persons designated to negotiate service contracts shall have no
authority to bind the Board of Commissioners for a period of more than one
year, or for payment of more than $25,000. All other contracts for services
shall be signed by the Board of Commissioners, upon other approval by the
Board..
(BC Ord. 13-1998, passed 6-25-98; Am. BC Ord. 01-2010, passed 4-6-10; Am. BC
Ord. 2011-005, passed 4-19-11)
   (C)   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all
purchases and shall be purchased unless the county determines:
      (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
      (2)   The price of supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds by
an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
      (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not
in the public interest.
(BC Ord. 14-1998, passed 6-25-98)
Cross-reference:
   County recycling procurement policy, see §
37.07
FARM BOARD
§ 32.115 ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The County Farm Board is hereby created.
   (B)   Representatives serving on the County Farm Committee shall be
appointed by the County Board of Commissions.
   (C)   Membership shall be as follows to serve a period also designated:
Representative            Service period
Youth Encouragement Services      1 year
County 4-H Association         1 year
County Purdue Extension Service   3 years
Boy Scouts of America            2 years
County Planning Department      4 years
County Park Board            3 years
Citizen Member               2 years
Citizen Member               3 years
Citizen Member               4 years
2012 S-12
   (D)   The initial citizen members shall be chosen from current members of
the County Farm Board. Subsequent citizen appointments shall be chosen at the
discretion of the County Board of Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 22-1998, passed 12-28-98)
§ 32.116 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the County Farm Committee shall be to review the condition
and needs of the current County Farm and make recommendations to the County
Park Board regarding its use and/or development.
(BC Ord. 22-1998. passed 12-28-98)
CEMETERY COMMISSION
§ 32.130 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all parts herein shall be known as the County Cemetery
Commission.
(BC Ord. 2001-7, passed 8-20-01)
§ 32.131 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CEMETERY. Any cemetery that:
      (1)   Is within the bounds of the county;
      (2)   Is without funds or sources of funds for reasonable preservation;
      (3)   Was established before 1850;
      (4)   May be the burial site of an Indiana pioneer leader or a veteran of
an American war; and
      (5)   Has suffered neglect and deterioration.
   COMMISSION. The County Cemetery Commission.
(BC Ord. 2001-7, passed 8-20-01)
§ 32.132 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Commissioners shall be responsible for the restoration in all
cemeteries in the county, including:
      (1)   The monuments and markers; and
      (2)   Leveling and seeding the ground.
   (B)   The Commission shall have the duty to create and maintain records of
all cemeteries and graves of the county. This record, and all subsequent
additions and amendments, shall be submitted annually for preservation to the
County Historical Society and the Lawrenceburg Public Library.
   (C)   The Commission shall have the duty to file an annual report to the
County Historical Society and the State Historical Bureau, and such report
shall contain:
      (1)   The budget of the Commission for the preceding year;
      (2)   Expenditures made by the Commission during the preceding year;
      (3)   Activities of the Commission during the preceding year; and
      (4)   Plans of the Commission for the calendar year in which the report
is filed.
(BC Ord. 2001-7, passed 8-20-01)
§ 32.133 AUTHORITY.
   The Cemetery Commission shall have the powers necessary and proper to
execute its duties as required by §
32.132, including:
   (A)   The power to enter into covenants and agreements with private persons
or corporations with the approval of the County Board of Commissioners;
   (B)   The power to raise funds on its own behalf, including the power to
solicit and accept donations from any private or public entities;
   (C)   Any and all other powers granted to it by the laws of the state (I.C.
23-24-67-2).
   (D)   The Commission shall not assume any of the powers granted to Township
Trustees by state law (I.C. 23-14-68).
(BC Ord. 2001-7, passed 8-20-01)
§ 32.134 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Cemetery Commission shall be composed of five county residents
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Each member of the Commission shall serve for a term of five years,
and the appointments staggered so as to permit the appointment or reappointment
of only one member per year.
   (C)   No member shall accept any gifts, gratuities, or contributions, except
on behalf of and for the benefit of the Commission.
(BC Ord. 2001-7, passed 8-20-01)
SOUTHEAST INDIANA REGIONAL PORT AUTHORITY
§ 32.145 ESTABLISHMENT OF A PORT AUTHORITY.
   A port authority to be known as the Southeast Indiana Regional Port
Authority is hereby established and shall have the powers and jurisdiction
enumerated and set forth in I. C. 8-10-5-1 et seq., as amended from time to
time.
(BC Ord. 2020-001, passed 2-4-20)
§ 32.146 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   (A)   The Port Authority shall be governed by a Board of Directors
consisting of 12 members, who shall be appointed by the mayors of the three
cities, with the consent and advice of their respective common councils, and by
the County Commission, whose memberships and appointments shall consist of the
following categories:
      (1)   The Mayor of the City of Aurora;
      (2)   The Mayor of the City of Greendale;
      (3)   The Mayor of the City of Lawrenceburg;
      (4)   One member from the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners;
      (5)   Two at-large representatives appointed by the Mayor of the City of
Aurora;
      (6)   Two at-large representatives appointed by the Mayor of the City of
Greendale;
      (7)   Two at-large representatives appointed by the Mayor of the City of
Lawrenceburg;
      (8)   Two at-large representatives appointed by the Dearborn County
Commissioners.
   (B)   At the time of appointment, a Director must be a resident of one of
the following:
      (1)   The political subdivision from which the Director was appointed; or
      (2)   The county within which the Port Authority is established; provided
that, at all times a majority of the Directors must be residents of the
political subdivision from which the members are appointed.
   (C)   The Directors of the Port Authority shall serve staggered terms. The
two at-large representatives from Aurora shall serve an initial term of one
year; the two at-large representatives from Greendale shall serve an initial
term of two years; the two at-large representatives from Lawrenceburg shall
serve an initial term of three years; and the two at-large representatives from
Dearborn County shall serve an initial term of four years. Thereafter, each
successor Director shall serve a term of four years, except that any person
appointed to fill a vacancy shall be appointed to only the remainder of the
unexpired vacant term, and any Director shall be eligible for reappointment.
The mayors of the cities who appoint their respective at-large representatives
may individually remove the at-large Director appointed by the respective mayor
at any time for misfeasance, nonfeasance, or malfeasance in office.
(BC Ord. 2020-001, passed 2-4-20)
§ 32.147 PROCEDURE.
   The Directors shall elect one of their membership as Chairman, another as
Vice-Chairman, and shall designate their terms of office, and shall appoint a
Secretary who need not be a Director. A majority of the Board of Directors
shall constitute a quorum, the affirmative vote of which shall be necessary for
any action taken by the Port Authority. No vacancy in membership of the Board
shall impair the rights of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all
the duties of the Port Authority. The elected Chairman shall not vote on
actions of the Board of Directors, unless his or her vote is required to decide
a tie vote among the Directors.
(BC Ord. 2020-001, passed 2-4-20)
§ 32.148 COMPENSATION OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   Each member of the Board of Directors shall be entitled to receive from the
Port Authority such sum of money as the Board of Directors may determine as
compensation for the Director's services as a Director, and reimbursement for
the Director's reasonable expenses in the performance of the Director's duties.
(BC Ord. 2020-001, passed 2-4-20)
§ 32.149 EMERGENCY CLAUSE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after passage of
Ordinance 2020-001 by all three cities and the County Commission. As Ordinance
2020-001 was originally passed as an Interlocal Agreement by the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners on October 4, 2016, this subchapter shall take
effect retroactive to January 1, 2017.
(BC Ord. 2020-001, passed 2-4-20)
§ 32.150 RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF SOUTHEAST INDIANA REGIONAL PORT AUTHORITY.
   Adoption and passage of Ordinance 2020-001 by the Common Councils of Aurora,
Greendale, and Lawrenceburg, and by the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners,
shall serve to replace and re-establish the Southeast Indiana Regional Port
Authority previously formed jointly between the Cities of Aurora and
Lawrenceburg and Dearborn County.
(BC Ord. 2020-001, passed 2-4-20)
CHAPTER 33: COUNTY EMPLOYEES
Section
   
33.01   Use of county vehicles by employees
   
33.02   Continuing education of county employees
   
33.03   Schedule of professional dues and related expenses
   
33.04   Reimbursement rates
   
33.05   Purchase of bonds or crime insurance policy
   
33.06   Deferred compensation
   
33.07   Approval of certain compensation required
   
33.08   Payroll deductions for additional retirement fund contributions
   
33.09   County equipment being held in personal residence
   
33.10   Disclosure of contracts with relatives
   
33.11   Nepotism prohibited
§ 33.01 USE OF COUNTY VEHICLES BY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   No county employee who has been provided a county vehicle, except
County Police Department Deputies, which use shall be controlled by policies of
the County Sheriff, shall use such county vehicle for personal use, except that
such vehicle may be used for commuting to and from the home.
   (B)   The vehicle provided the maintenance man for the County Police
Department is a road service vehicle to provide emergency assistance and other
mechanical assistance to the Police Department vehicles, therefore, such
vehicle is considered exempt.
   (C)   The Highway Department has a maintenance vehicle operated by the
Garage Foreman, which vehicle is equipped to provide emergency road service and
other maintenance assistance for county highway vehicles and as such is
considered exempt.
(BC Res. passed 3-18-86)
§ 33.02 CONTINUING EDUCATION OF COUNTY EMPLOYEES.
   The County Prosecuting Attorney may authorize the payment from discretionary
funds of the Prosecutor's office, namely the Prosecutor's IV-D Incentive Fund
for the continuing education of employees of the Prosecutor's office relating
to their duties in the county Prosecutor's office. The Board of County
Commissioners further find that payment may be made to suitable educational
facilities and programs for the cost of tuition, books, travel, and related
educational expenses.
(BC Ord. 3-1989, passed 7-3-89)
§ 33.03 SCHEDULE OF PROFESSIONAL DUES AND RELATED EXPENSES.
   (A)   The following professional dues and related expenses are authorized
for payment, as the same may be included in the Prosecuting Attorney's budget
submitted to the County Council:
      (1)   Indiana Prosecuting Attorneys Association.
      (2)   National District Attorneys Association.
(BC Ord. 1-1987, passed 1-6-87)
   (B)   The following professional dues and related expenses are authorized
for payment, as the same may be included in the Circuit Court Judge's budget
submitted to the County Council:
      (1)   Indiana Judges Association.
      (2)   Indiana Juvenile Judges Association.
      (3)   Dearborn-Ohio County Bar Association.
      (4)   American Bar Association.
      (5)   Indiana State Bar Association.
      (6)   American Judges Association.
(BC Ord. 2-1987, passed 1-6-87; Am. BC Ord. 8-1998, passed 5-18-98)
§ 33.04 REIMBURSEMENT RATES.
   (A)   The mileage reimbursement rate shall be the sum of .28 per mile when a
county employee uses his her personal vehicle in conducting business for the
county.
   (B)   The meal expense allowance for all travel while conducting business
for Dearborn County shall be $60 per day plus gratuity of up to 20%, for a
minimum allowance of $72 per day.
   (C)   County employees must provide itemized receipts within 30 days of
expenditure to receive reimbursement.
   (D)   All mileage reimbursement must be supported by a mileage calculator
such as Google Maps, Apple Maps, Waze, or the like.
(CC Ord. 2-1998, passed 6-6-98; Am. CC Ord. 2023-001, passed 1-26-23)
§ 33.05 PURCHASE OF BONDS OR CRIME INSURANCE POLICY.
   (A)   As permitted by I.C. 5-4-1-18, Dearborn County is hereby authorized to
purchase individual surety bonds, blanket bonds, name or position schedule
bonds, and/or crime insurance policies for County officers, employees, and
contractors required to be bonded pursuant to I.C. 5-4-1-18(a);
   (B)   If Dearborn County elects to purchase a blanket bond, as permitted by
I.C. 5-4-1-18(b), said blanket bond must:
      (1)   Be endorsed to include faithful performance to cover the faithful
performance of; and
      (2)   Include aggregate coverage sufficient to provide coverage amounts
for all employees, commission members, and persons acting on behalf of Dearborn
County, including the officers, employees, and contractors described in I.C. 5-
4-1-18(a) who are required to file a bond.
   (C)   If Dearborn County elects to purchase a name or position schedule
bond, as permitted by I.C. 5-4-1-18(c), said name or position schedule bond
must:
      (1)   Name each individual or each position covered under the schedule
bond;
      (2)   Be endorsed to include faithful performance to cover the faithful
performance of all officers, employees, and contractors described in I.C. 5-4-
1-18(a) who are required to file a bond; and
      (3)   Include aggregate coverage sufficient to provide coverage amounts
specified for all officers, employees, and contractors described in I.C. 5-4-1-
18(a) who are required to file a bond.
   (D)   If Dearborn County elects to purchase a crime insurance policy, as
permitted by I.C. 5-4-1-18(d), said crime insurance policy must:
      (1)   Provide coverage for criminal acts or omissions committed by;
      (2)   Be endorsed to include faithful performance to cover the faithful
performance of; and
      (3)   Include aggregate coverage sufficient to provide coverage amounts
specified for all officers, employees, contractors, commission members, and
persons acting on behalf of Dearborn County and required to file a bond under
I.C. 5-4-1-18(a). For the sole purpose of recovering public funds on behalf of
Dearborn County, the State of Indiana is considered to be an additional named
insured on all crime insurance policies and endorsements obtained under this
section and I.C. 5-4-1-18(d).
   (E)   Any bond or crime insurance policy obtained shall be subject to all
provisions found in the Indiana Code, specifically I.C. 5-4-1-18, which may be
amended by the State of Indiana from time to time.
(CC Ord. 1-1999, passed 1-5-99; Am. CC Ord. 2019-011, passed 11- 26-19)
§ 33.06 DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Dearborn County Deferred Compensation
Plan for the voluntary participation of all eligible employees and officials.
The county will utilize the state's plan and its investment options, and will
contract with Indiana Deferred Compensation Plan, Inc. to be the exclusive
Servicing Manager and Enroller.
   (B)   The Auditor is hereby appointed as the administrator of the plan, and
is authorized to make deductions from the pay of employees who voluntarily
participate, and to make other arrangements necessary to implement the plan.
Other than the incidental expense of collecting the employees' deferrals and
other minor administrative matters, there is to be no cost to the county or
contribution by the county to this plan.
(BC Res. 5-1999, passed 12-20-99)
§ 33.07 APPROVAL OF CERTAIN COMPENSATION REQUIRED.
   The County Council and the Board of Commissioners must approve any and all
extraordinary compensation time, vacation time, and/or any such time which
exceeds the limits set forth in Section 4.03 of the County Personnel Policy
Manual as it applies to any and all county employees.
(BC Ord. 19-2003, passed 11-3-03)
§ 33.08 PAYROLL DEDUCTIONS FOR ADDITIONAL RETIREMENT FUND CONTRIBUTIONS.
   The county will pick up all of the additional employee contributions made by
employees to the Indiana Public Employees’ Retirement Fund through a binding
irrevocable payroll deduction authorization. For state law purposes, such
additional employee contributions are being paid by the county in lieu of such
contributions by the employee. The county shall comply with all of the terms
and provisions of the Pick-Up Regulation and applicable provisions of the
Internal Revenue Code.
(BC Res. 4-2003, passed 8-4-03)
§ 33.09 COUNTY EQUIPMENT BEING HELD IN PERSONAL RESIDENCE.
   The Board of Commissioners understands that certain employees are required
to purchase certain items necessary for their employment. The county shall
purchase or reimburse the employee for the purchase of equipment necessary for
the employee to be able to complete the tasks required by their employment. The
equipment may be housed in the employee’s personal residence, however, the
property is the property of the county and must be returned to the county at
the conclusion of employment with the county unless granted written permission
to retain the equipment by the Board of Commissioners.
(BC Res. 2012-001, passed 4-3-12)
§ 33.10 DISCLOSURE OF CONTRACTS WITH RELATIVES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ELECTED OFFICIAL. A County Commissioner or County Council member.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following: spouse, parent or step parent, a child or
step child, brother, sister, step brother or step sister, a niece or nephew, an
aunt or uncle, or a daughter-in-law or son-in-law. An adopted child of an
individual is treated as a natural child of the individual. The terms brother
and sister shall include a brother or sister by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Application to certain contracts.
      (1)   The county may enter into a contract or renew a contract for the
procurement of goods and services or a contract for public works with an
individual who is a relative of an elected official or a business entity that
is wholly or partially owned by a relative of an elected official only if
disclosure requirements under this section are satisfied.
      (2)   Contracts in existence at the time the term of office of the
elected official begins are not affected until those contracts are renewed.
   (C)   Disclosure of contracts with relatives.
      (1)   An elected official whose relative enters into a contract with the
county shall file a full disclosure of that contract.
      (2)   Disclosure statement must be in writing, describe the contract or
purchase to be made by the county, describe the relationship that the elected
official has to the individual or business entity that contracts or purchases,
and be affirmed under penalty of perjury.
      (3)   Disclosure statement must be submitted to the Board of County
Commissioners and be accepted by the Board in a public meeting prior to final
action on the contract or purchase.
      (4)   Disclosure statement must be filed not later than 15 days after
final action on the contract or purchase with the State Board of Accounts, and
the County Clerk of the Circuit Court.
   (D)   Actions by Board of Commissioners or appropriate agency. The Board of
County Commissioners or an appropriate agency of the county designated by the
Board of County Commissioners shall make a certified statement that the
contract amount or purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered
or make a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or contractor was
selected.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the county. Each elected officer
of the county shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this section. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the Board of County Commissioners not later
than December 31 of each year.
(CC Res. 2012-001, passed 5-22-12; Am. CC Res. 2013-001, passed 1-3-13)
§ 33.11 NEPOTISM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the County Council or Board of County Commissioners to make
decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets or personnel policies of the
county.
      EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the county on a full time,
part time, temporary, intermittent or hourly basis. The term does not include
an individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the county. The performance of
the duties of a precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that
are imposed by I.C. 3 is not considered employment by the county.
      RELATIVE. Any of the following: spouse, parent or step parent, a child or
step child, brother, sister, step brother or step sister, a niece or nephew, an
aunt or uncle, or a daughter-in-law or son-in-law. An adopted child of an
individual is treated as a natural child of the individual. The terms brother
and sister shall include a brother or sister by half blood (a common parent).
   (B)   Nepotism prohibited.
      (1)   Individuals who are relatives shall not be employed by the county
in a position that results in one relative being in the direct line of
supervision of the other relative.
      (2)   An individual shall not be promoted to a position if the new
position would cause their relative to be in the direct line of supervision of
that individual.
      (3)   An individual who is a spouse of the County Sheriff may not be
employed by the county as prison matron for the county under I.C. 36-8-10-5.
      (4)   An individual who served as County Coroner, is currently ineligible
to serve due to term limits under Art. 6, § 2(b) of the Constitution of the
state, has received certification under I.C. 36-2-14-22.3, and whose successor
in the office of County Coroner is a relative, may not be employed by the
county in the office of the Coroner.
   (C)   Exceptions to prohibition against nepotism.
      (1)   This section does not abrogate or affect an employment contract
with the county that an individual is a party to and is in effect on the date
the individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected office in the
county.
      (2)   This section does not apply to individuals who are employed by the
county on the date the individual’s relative begins serving a term of an
elected office in the county and the individual is in the direct line of
supervision of the newly elected official.
   (D)   Impact of section to those individuals employed by county on July 1,
2012. An individual who is employed by the county on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this section unless the individual has a break in employment with
the county. The following are not considered a break in employment with the
county:
      (1)   The individual is absent from the workplace while on paid or unpaid
leave, including vacation, sick, or family medical leave, or worker’s
compensation.
      (2)   The individual’s employment with the unit is terminated followed by
immediate reemployment by the unit, without loss of payroll time.
   (E)   Certification by elected officers of the county. Each elected officer
of the county shall annually certify in writing, subject to the penalties for
perjury, that the officer has not violated this section. An elected officer
shall submit the certification to the Board of County Commissioners not later
than December 31 of each year.
(CC Res. 2012-002, passed 5-22-12; Am. CC Res. 2012-003, passed 6-19-12; Am. CC
Res. 2012-004, passed 10-12-12)
CHAPTER 34: COUNTY FUNDS
Section
   
34.01   County Corrections Fund
   
34.02   Cumulative County Courthouse Fund
   
34.03   Inmate Trust Fund
   
34.04   Jail Commissary Fund
   
34.05   Non-reverting Fund for Board of Parks and Recreation
   
34.06   Tax Sale Fee Fund
   
34.07   Animal Control Donation Fund
   
34.08   Road Bond Subdivision Improvements Fund
   
34.09   County Contingency Fund
   
34.10   County Clerk Record Perpetuation Fund; disbursement of late payment
fees
   
34.11   County Misdemeanant Fund
   
34.12   Supplemental Attorneys’ Fees Funds
   
34.13   Fund for receipt and distribution of funds donated to County Juvenile
Center
   
34.14   Sheriff’s Department Criminal Investigation Fund
   
34.15   Prosecutor’s Special Crimes Unit and Seized Asset Fund
   
34.16   Sheriff Work Release Fund
   
34.17   Circuit Court Supplemental Guardian Ad Litem Fees Fund
   
34.18   K-9 Support and Maintenance Donation Fund
   
34.19   Accident Report Fund
   
34.20   Rainy Day Fund
   
34.21   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
34.22   Dearborn County Recorder's Enhanced Access Fund
   
34.23   GIS Perpetuation Fund and fee schedule
   
34.24   Redevelopment Commission Fund
   
34.25   LOIT 2016 Special Distribution Holding Fund
   
34.26   LOIT 2016 Special Distribution Fund
   
34.26   LOIT 2016 Special Distribution Fund
   
34.27   Park and Recreation Board Donation Fund
   
34.28   Prosecutor's Laboratory Services Fund
   
34.29   Hospital Proceeds Restricted Fund
   
34.30   Declared Emergency Fund
   
34.31   County Hospital Remainder Fund
   
34.32   Campaign Finance Enforcement Fund
Cross reference:
   Community Corrections Fund, see §
39.35
   Community Corrections Home Detention Fund, see §
39.36
   County Misdemeanant Fund, see also §
39.37
   Prosecutor's Bad Check Services Fund, see §
37.21
§ 34.01 COUNTY CORRECTIONS FUND.
   (A)   This section, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto,
shall be known as the County Corrections Fund Ordinance.
   (B)   The fund established by this section shall be known as the County
Corrections Fund.
   (C)   The county elects to receive deposits from the Department of
Corrections, State of Indiana, pursuant to state statute, at level 3 funding.
   (D)   The County Corrections Fund shall be held and used for the operation
for the County Law Enforcement Center (County Jail), jail programs or other
local correctional facilities.
   (E)   The County Corrections Fund shall be administered by the County
Council.
   (F)   Any funds remaining in the County Corrections Fund at the end of each
year shall not revert to any other fund, but shall remain in the County
Corrections Fund.
   (G)   Two copies of annual adoptions shall be filed each year with the
Commissioner of Correction prior to May 1, as required by statute.
(BC Ord. 1-1997, passed 1-21-97; Am. BC Ord. 2-1998, passed 2-2-98; Am. BC Ord.
4-1999, passed 2-1-99)
§ 34.02 CUMULATIVE COUNTY COURTHOUSE FUND.
   (A)   A need now exists for the establishment of a Cumulative County
Courthouse Fund for the following purposes: for the construction, remodeling,
and repair of courthouses and any other purposes permitted under Indiana Law.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners will adhere to the provisions of
I.C. 36-9-14 and 6-1.1-41 et seq. Said levy will be levied beginning with taxes
payable beginning in the year 1997.
(BC Res. passed 7-29-96)
§ 34.03 INMATE TRUST FUND.
   (A)   This section, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto,
shall be known as the Inmate Trust Fund Ordinance, and may be cited as such.
   (B)   The purpose of this section is to provide for an Inmate Trust Fund,
and the procedures for and administration thereof. The fund established by this
section shall be known as the Inmate Trust Fund.
   (C)   The Sheriff shall hold in trust separately for each inmate any money
received from that inmate or from another person on behalf of that inmate.
   (D)   If the inmate or his or her legal guardian requests a disbursement
from the inmate’s trust fund the Sheriff may make a disbursement for the
personal inmate including, but not limited to, a disbursement to the county
jail commissary.
   (E)   Upon discharge or release of an inmate from the county jail, the
Sheriff shall pay to that inmate or his or her legal guardian any balance
remaining in his or her trust fund.
   (F)   The Sheriff shall maintain a record of each trust fund’s receipts and
disbursement on forms approved by the State Board of Accounts for this purpose.
   (G)   The Sheriff must post the receipts and disbursements to and from the
Inmate Trust Fund through the Sheriff’s cashbook, utilizing the trust column.
(BC Ord. 4-1991, passed 11-4-91)
§ 34.04 JAIL COMMISSARY FUND.
   (A)   This section, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto,
shall be known as the Jail Commissary Fund Ordinance and may be cited as such.
   (B)   The purpose of this section is to provide for a Jail Commissary Fund,
and the procedures for and administration thereof. The fund established by this
section shall be known as the Jail Commissary Fund.
   (C)   A Jail Commissary Fund is hereby established, which Fund shall be
separate from the General Fund and monies deposited therein shall not revert to
the General Fund.
   (D)   The Sheriff, or his or her designee, shall deposit all monies from
commissary sales conducted in the jail into this Fund, which funds shall be
kept in a depository properly designated under I.C. 5-13-1 et seq.
   (E)   The Sheriff, or his or her designee, at his or her discretion, may
disperse money from the Jail Commissary Fund for the following purposes:
      (1)   Merchandise for resale to inmates through the commissary;
      (2)   Expenses for operating the commissary, including, but not limited
to, facilities and personnel;
      (3)   Special training in law enforcement for employees of the Sheriff’s
Department, or;
      (4)   Any other purpose that benefits the Sheriff’s Department but is not
included in the Department's regular appropriation.
   (F)   The Sheriff shall maintain a record of the funds, receipts and
disbursements, which record shall be in the form prescribed by the State Board
of Accounts.
   (G)   The Sheriff shall maintain these funds in a separate bank account
exclusively for the Jail Commissary Fund and such account shall be reconciled
monthly. Transactions in this fund shall not be posted to the Sheriff’s
cashbook.
(BC Ord. 3-1991, passed 11-4-91)
§ 34.05 NON-REVERTING FUND FOR BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3, there is hereby created a
special, non-reverting fund for the purposes of operating expenses, acquiring
land, and/or making capital improvements by the Dearborn County Board of Parks
and Recreation.
   (B)   The Dearborn County Council may include, from year to year, in the
budget of the Dearborn County Board of Parks and Recreation, appropriations to
said special, non-reverting fund.
   (C)   Moneys placed in the special, non-reverting fund shall not be
withdrawn except for operating expenses, acquiring land, and/or making capital
improvements, being the purposes for which said fund is created.
(Ord. 1966-1, passed 11-19-66; Am. CC Ord. 1979-7, passed 4-28- 79; Am. CC Ord.
2022-010, passed 11-16-22)
§ 34.06 TAX SALE FEE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fund to be known as the Tax Sale Fee
Fund. The Fund shall be funded by the payments received by the county for the
advertising and abstract expenses in direct relation to the annual tax sale.
   (B)   The purpose of this Fund shall be to provide funds for the costs
associated with the contractual expenses of advertising and abstracting fees.
These funds shall be accepted at the time of payment of taxes and expenses on
or before the annual tax sale. This Fund shall expedite the actual payments to
vendors associated with the annual tax sale.
   (C)   The Fund shall not require appropriation by the County Council and
shall be spent in accordance with the general rules as to which other funds of
the county are subject.
   (D)   All amounts placed in the Fund shall be invested and reinvested
pursuant to the standard procedures followed by the county, and the funds shall
not revert to the General Fund at the end of the year.
(BC Ord. 8, passed 8-7-95)
§ 34.07 ANIMAL CONTROL DONATION FUND.
   (A)   The Animal Control Donation Fund is hereby established as a special
fund for the purpose of receiving all funds donated to Dearborn County Animal
Control.
   (B)   The funds may be used for purposes consistent with maintaining the
Animal Control Center and its necessary functions.
(BC Ord. 13-1997, passed 8-4-97)
§ 34.08 ROAD BOND SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS FUND.
   (A)   The County Auditor shall establish a fund designated as Road Bond
Subdivision Improvements Fund.
   (B)   Upon receipt of proof of financial responsibility for proposed
subdivision improvements as approved by the County Plan Commission, the County
Auditor shall deposit such sums into the above stated Fund. Said funds shall be
deposited on terms determined by the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Deposits shall be maintained in this Fund until release of all or any
part is authorized by the County Plan Commission.
(BC Ord. 16-1997, passed 9-2-97)
§ 34.09 COUNTY CONTINGENCY FUND.
   (A)   The County Contingency Fund is hereby created.
   (B)   A portion of shared gaming tax revenue received through the Revenue
Sharing Agreement between the city of Lawrenceburg, Indiana and the county
dated June 2, 1997 shall be deposited in said fund.
   (C)   The amount of said shared gaming tax revenues deposited in the County
Contingency Fund shall be determined by the County Council on an annual basis.
   (D)   Funds on deposit in the County Contingency Fund shall be available for
such uses determined by a majority vote of the County Council.
(CC Ord. 5-1998, passed - -98)
§ 34.10 COUNTY CLERK RECORD PERPETUATION FUND; DISBURSEMENT OF LATE PAYMENT
FEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to House Enrolled Act 1130, Pub. L. No. 183-2001, the County
Clerk Record Perpetuation Fund is hereby established.
   (B)   The Fund is to be maintained by the County Auditor.
   (C)   The $2 document storage fee and the $2 automated record keeping fee
collected by the Clerk for all state infractions, ordinance violations,
criminal misdemeanors, felonies, delinquencies, CHINS, paternities, small
claims, probate and civil actions filed through the County Clerk’s Office shall
be transferred to the County Clerk Record Perpetuation Fund. Sums maintained in
this Fund shall not revert to the County General Fund at the conclusion of the
calender year, but shall remain in the designated Clerk Record Perpetuation
Fund.
   (D)   The funds shall be used for the purpose of record keeping and record
perpetuation in the County Clerk’s Office.
   (E)   All funds collected by the Clerk for purposes of preparing fax copies
of documents shall be deposited in the County Clerk Record Perpetuation Fund.
   (F)   The Auditor is authorized to deposit all fax copy fees collected from
January 1, 2001 to present in the Record Perpetuation Fund as established
herein.
   (G)   The County Commissioners hereby direct the County Auditor to deposit
40% of the late payment fees collected under I.C. 33-19-6-20 in the County
Clerk Record Perpetuation Fund established under I.C. 33-19-6-1.5 and 60% of
the late payment fees collected under I.C. 33-19-6-20 in the County General
Fund. This division applies to late payment fees distributed to the County
Auditor after August 31, 2001.
(BC Ord. 5-2001, passed 8-20-01; Am. BC Ord. 6-2001, passed 8-20-01; Am. CC
Ord. 4-2001, passed 8-28-01; Am. CC Ord. 5-2001, passed 8-28- 01)
§ 34.11 COUNTY MISDEMEANANT FUND.
   (A)   This section, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto,
shall be known as the County Misdemeanant Fund, and may be cited as such.
   (B)   The county hereby elects to receive deposits from the State Department
of Corrections under level 3 funding as provided in I.C. 11-12-6-1.l et seq.
   (C)   The County Misdemeanant Fund shall be held and used for the operation
of the County Law Enforcement Center a/k/a County Jail, jail programs or other
local correctional facilities.
   (D)   The County Misdemeanant Fund shall be administered by the County
Council.
   (E)   Any funds remaining in the County Misdemeanant Fund at the end of each
year shall not revert to any other fund, but shall remain in the County
Misdemeanant Fund.
   (F)   Two copies of this section and all successive annual adoptions thereof
shall be filed each year with the Commissioner of Correction prior to May 1, as
required by statute.
(BC Ord. 3-2000, passed 3-23-00; Am. BC. Ord. 1-2001, passed 3-5-01)
Cross-reference:
   See also §
39.37
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 11-12-6 was repealed by P.L. 179-2015, sec. 7.
§ 34.12 SUPPLEMENTAL ATTORNEYS’ FEES FUNDS.
   (A)   A fund is hereby created which shall be designated the Circuit Court
Supplemental Attorneys’ Fees Fund, and a fund is hereby created which shall be
designated the County Court Supplemental Attorneys’ Fees Fund.
   (B)   Any and all attorney fees and expenses recovered either through bond
monies posted or through repayments made by order of the Circuit Court shall be
paid to the Clerk of the Circuit Court who shall cause these funds collected to
be deposited into the said Circuit Court Supplemental Attorneys’ Fees Fund.
   (C)   Any and all attorney fees funds recovered by the County Court either
through bond monies posted or through repayments made by Order of the County
Court shall be paid to the Clerk of the Circuit Court who shall cause these
funds collected to be deposited into the County Court Supplemental Attorneys’
Fees Fund.
   (D)   Monies so recovered and placed in said Funds shall be used for the
sole purpose of supplementing and providing additional funds for legal services
as required by the Circuit Court and the County Court.
   (E)   Funds recovered shall not be considered for the purpose of reducing
appropriations and shall not revert back to the County General Fund at the end
of the calendar year.
(CC Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-23-00)
§ 34.13 FUND FOR RECEIPT AND DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS DONATED TO COUNTY JUVENILE
CENTER.
   (A)   A fund is hereby established in order to receive and distribute funds
donated to the County Juvenile Center.
   (B)   The County Auditor shall maintain said Fund and distribute said funds
for purposes related to the County Juvenile Center at the request of the
Director of the County Juvenile Center and/or Circuit Court Judge.
(BC Ord. 1-2000, passed 3-23-00)
§ 34.14 SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Criminal Investigation Fund, to be expended
by the Sheriff.
      (1)   The monies deposited in the Criminal Investigation Fund shall not
be commingled with, nor shall they be a part of, the general funds of the
county.
      (2)   The Criminal Investigation Fund shall be a non-reverting fund.
   (B)   (1)   The sources of the funds to be placed in the Sheriff’s
Department Criminal Investigation Fund shall consist of deposits in the form of
money from political subdivisions, voluntarily surrendered funds from criminal
defendants, the sale of voluntarily surrendered assets from criminal
defendants, donations, reimbursement for law enforcement costs, restitution
made pursuant to court order, seizure of assets, funds derived from the public
sale of seized property sold in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 34-24-1,
funds derived from the sale of seized property disposed of in accordance with
the United States Department of Justice seizure policy, any other funds from
applicable state, federal, local, and private grants available for the specific
uses of the fund, and any other law enforcement fees recovered by or at the
direction of the Dearborn County Sheriff which are not required to be deposited
in the County General Fund.
      (2)   Any funds from any of these sources shall immediately be paid over
and deposited into the Criminal Investigation Fund by the County Treasurer.
   (C)   Authorized expenditures from the Criminal Investigation Fund shall be
utilized solely for the law enforcement purposes and may include:
      (1)   Purchase of vehicles and equipment needed for law enforcement
functions;
      (2)   Purchase of weapons and protective equipment;
      (3)   Purchase of investigation communications equipment;
      (4)   Payment of unbudgeted salaries and overtime for law enforcement
officers;
      (5)   Purchase of automated data processing and computer equipment and
software to be used in support of law enforcement purposes;
      (6)   Payment of expense for training of law enforcement officers;
      (7)   Payment of expenses for travel and salaries for law enforcement
personnel;
      (8)   Money to be used as reward money or to pay expenses in the running
of a “sting” operation;
      (9)   Money to be used to make “buys” in connection with anticipated
arrests;
      (10)   Costs associated with the construction, expansion, improvement or
operation of detention facilities; and
      (11)   Costs associated with public education on drug awareness, alcohol
abuse or other issues related to prevention of illegal or criminal activity.
   (D)   Requests for expenditure from the Criminal Investigation Fund shall be
made only by the County Sheriff, subject to formal claim approval by the County
Council.
(BC Ord. 13-2005, passed 9-20-05; Am. BC Ord. 2008-22, passed 9-16-08; Am. BC
Ord. 2023-002, passed 1-17-23)
§ 34.15 PROSECUTOR’S SPECIAL CRIMES UNIT AND SEIZED ASSET FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Special Crimes Unit and Seized Asset Fund.
The funds shall consist of deposits in the form of money from political
subdivisions, voluntary surrendered funds from criminal defendants, the sale of
voluntary surrendered assets from criminal defendants, donations, reimbursement
for law enforcement costs restitution made pursuant to court order, seizure of
assets, funds derived from the public sale of seized property in accordance
with the provisions of I.C. 34-24-1-1(a), et seq., funds derived from the
public sale of seized property in accordance with the United States Department
of Justice Seizure Policy, any other funds from the applicable state, local and
private grants and other law enforcement fees recovered by or at the direction
of the Dearborn County Prosecutor which are not required to be deposited in the
County General fund.
   (B)   The Prosecutors Special Crimes Unit and Seized Asset Fund shall be
appropriated for funding activities recovered by I.C. 34-24-2 et seq. and
I.C.34-24-3 et seq. and liquidation of personal and/or real property obtained
from criminal defendants.
   (C)   Seized monies from this fund shall be subject to appropriation
requirements in accordance with I.C. 36-2-5-2. All money collected under this
section shall be deposited by the County Treasurer, who shall deposit said
funds at the direction of the Prosecuting Attorney into a trust account
entitled, the Prosecutor's Special Crimes Unit and Seized Asset Fund. All money
collected under this section including any interest from said account shall
further be dispersed at the direction of in and in a manner dictated by the
Prosecuting Attorney. Any money remaining in the fund at the end of the year
shall not revert to any other fund but shall continue in the Prosecutor's
Special Crimes Unit and Seized Asset Fund and shall be utilized totally for law
enforcement purposes including but not limited to the purchase of vehicles,
equipment, weapons, communications equipment, overtime for law enforcement
officers, computer equipment, training of law enforcement officers, expenses
for travel related to training, expenses related to investigative operations,
money used in undercover operations, cost associated with the construction,
expansion, improvement or operation of office space associated with the Special
Crimes Unit, costs associated with public education on drug awareness, domestic
violence, and other issues related to the prevention of illegal or criminal
activity.
   (D)   Requests for expenditures from the Prosecutor's Special Crimes Unit
and Seized Asset Fund shall be made only by the Prosecutor of Dearborn County
subject to formal claim approval by the Dearborn County Council.
   (E)   There shall be no reversion of the Special Crimes Unit and Seized
Asset Fund or any monies paid into the Special Crimes Unit and Seized Asset
Funds. Funds from the sale of seized property may accumulate in the Special
Crimes Unit and Seized Asset Fund as a non-reverting fund. Special Crimes Unit
and Seized Asset Fund should be used exclusively for law enforcement purposes.
(CC Ord. 2006-02, passed 4-6-06)
§ 34.16 SHERIFF WORK RELEASE FUND.
   (A)   The Sheriff Work Release Fund is hereby established as a separate fund
for the purpose of receiving one-half of work release funds from fees collected
by Southeast Regional Community Corrections.
   (B)   The funds may be used for purposes consistent with maintaining the
Dearborn County Law Enforcement Center and its necessary functions.
(BC Ord. 5-2007, passed 8-21-07; Am. BC Ord. 2007-11, passed 9-18-07)
§ 34.17 CIRCUIT COURT SUPPLEMENTAL GUARDIAN AD LITEM FEES FUND.
   (A)   The fund number 238 is hereby created which shall be designated the
Circuit Court Supplemental Guardian Ad Litem Fees Fund.
   (B)   Any and all Guardian Ad Litem fees and expenses recovered through
repayments made by order of the Circuit Court shall be paid to the Clerk of the
Circuit Court who shall cause these funds collected to be deposited into said
fund number 238.
   (C)   Monies recovered and placed in the fund shall be used for the sole
purpose of supplementing and providing additional funds for Guardian Ad Litem
services as required by the Circuit Court.
   (D)   Funds recovered shall not be considered for the purpose of reducing
appropriations and shall not revert back to the County General Fund at the end
of the calendar year.
(CC Ord. 1-2007, passed 11-27-07)
§ 34.18 K-9 SUPPORT AND MAINTENANCE DONATION FUND.
   (A)   The County Sheriff K-9 Support and Maintenance Donation Fund is hereby
established as a separate, special fund for the purpose of receiving all funds
donated to the County Sheriff’s Office.
      (1)   The K-9 Support and Maintenance Donation Fund shall be a non-
reverting fund.
      (2)   Donated funds shall be used solely for purposes consistent with
maintaining and supporting K-9 officers of the County Sheriff's Office.
   (B)   Should the fund ever be terminated, its balance shall be transferred
into the Commissary Fund.
(BC Ord. 2008-12, passed 5-20-08)
§ 34.19 ACCIDENT REPORT FUND.
   The county now establishes an Accident Report Fund, into which account the
County Sheriff’'s Department shall deposit all funds collected for accident
reports.
(BC Ord. 2008-30, passed 11-25-08)
Cross-reference:
   Accident report fee, see §
31.04
§ 34.20 RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Rainy Day Fund to receive:
      (1)   Unused and unencumbered funds under I.C. 36-1-8-5 or I.C. 6-3.6-9-
15.
      (2)   Any other funding source specified in the ordinance or resolution
adopted under division (C)(2) of this section and not otherwise prohibited by
law.
   (B)   The Rainy Day Fund is subject to the same appropriation process as
other funds that receive tax money.
   (C)   In any fiscal year, the Dearborn County Council may, at any time, do
the following:
      (1)   Transfer any unused and unencumbered funds specified in division
(A)(1) of this section to the Rainy Day Fund as long as the transfer satisfies
the following requirements:
         (a)   The amount of the transfer is authorized by and identified in an
ordinance or resolution.
         (b)   The amount of the transfer is not more than:
            1.   After December 31, 2020, and before January 1, 2025, 15%; and
            2.   After December 31, 2024, 10%; of Dearborn County’s total
annual budget adopted under I.C. 6-1.1-17 for that fiscal year.
         (c)   The transfer is not made from a debt service fund.
   (D)   The County Council may use only the funding sources specified in
division (A)(1) or in the ordinance or resolution adopted under division (C)
(2). The County Council may adopt a subsequent ordinance or resolution
authorizing the use of another funding source.
   (E)   The County Council may, by ordinance or resolution, transfer to its
General Fund or any other appropriated funds of Dearborn County, money that has
been deposited in the Rainy Day Fund by the County Council.
   (F)   The County Council hereby intends to utilize its decision-making power
regarding fiscal affairs, and to set priorities for allocation and expenditure
of the Rainy Day Fund, as deemed necessary to best serve the residents of
county, which could include appropriation for enhancement of technical support,
computers and communications systems, along with addressing safety concerns.
(CC Res. 2008-1, passed 3-25-08; Am. CC Ord. 2022-002, passed 5-24-22)
§ 34.21 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Cumulative Capital Development Fund for
the following purposes: for the construction, remodeling, and repair of
courthouses; construction, repair, remodeling, enlarging and equipping County
Jail or Detention Center; maintaining public buildings; acquiring land for
public construction; demolishing of improvements for construction of public
buildings; acquiring land for rights-of-way; constructing public ways,
sidewalks; acquiring land for sewers; purchasing utilities; purchasing land for
use by utilities; purchasing land for parks; purchasing vehicles for police or
fire departments; retiring bond obligation; purchasing or leasing property for
public transportation; purchasing lights for public ways and sidewalks; and any
other purposes, now or in the future, permitted under Indiana law; and
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-
9-14.5 and 6-1.1-41 et seq. Said levy will be levied beginning with taxes
payable beginning in the year 1997.
(BC Ord. 10-2009, passed 5-19-09; Am. BC Ord. 2021-003, passed 4-6-21; Am. BC
Ord. 2023-003, passed 4-4-23)
§ 34.22 DEARBORN COUNTY RECORDER'S ENHANCED ACCESS FUND.
   (A)   The County Council hereby establishes the Dearborn County Recorder's
Enhanced Access Fund No. 1189 (the fund) to receive those fees collected by
said Recorder for the provision of enhanced public access to public records
under the Recorder's charge.
   (B)   The fund shall be a dedicated fund and the monies deposited therein
shall be used for:
      (1)   The replacement, improvement and expansion of equipment used to
maintain the Dearborn County Recorder's Document Indexing System upon which
enhanced access depends; and/or
      (2)   The reimbursement of operating expenses incurred in providing
enhanced access to public information by the Dearborn County Recorder's office.
(CC Ord. 2011-002, passed 7-26-11)
§ 34.23 GIS PERPETUATION FUND AND FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)    Website internet access. Limited access will be provided for the
general public to the Dearborn County GIS through a website via the internet
without fee. An administrative committee consisting of the Dearborn County
Administrator, Dearborn County Auditor, Dearborn County Surveyor, Dearborn
County Recorder, Dearborn County Assessor, and a representative from the
Dearborn County Planning and Zoning Department shall recommend from time to
time to the Dearborn County Commissioners what information should be provided
from the Dearborn County GIS to the general public through the website via the
internet without fee. The Dearborn County Commissioners shall act upon such
recommendations from time to time and determine what information will be
provided from the Dearborn County GIS to the general public through the website
via the internet without fee.
   (B)   Access fees. 
      (1)   For those users desiring additional, greater, or more efficient
access to the Dearborn County GIS than is available via the website internet
access, Dearborn County will provide the GIS data in the formats and at the
fees as detailed in Exhibit A, attached to BC Ord. 2021-008 and incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth herein and as may be amended by the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners and the Dearborn County Council from time to
time.
      (2)   Fees must be prepaid to the Dearborn County Planning and Zoning
Department by the end user prior to the GIS product or access to the GIS
product being provided to the end user. The end user must also accept and agree
to the terms of use pertaining to the Dearborn County GIS or the respective
Dearborn County GIS product prior to GIS access or the GIS product being
provided. In accordance with I.C. 5-14-3-8(j), the fees for the GIS data will
be waived for the following uses and users: public agency program support, non-
profit activities, journalism, and academic research. Service charges, shipping
and handling charges, and media charges will still be imposed upon such uses
and users.
      (3)   The digital data will be delivered in the format in use by Dearborn
County staff at the time of delivery. Additional formats may be provided by
Dearborn County staff in its discretion.
   (C)   GIS Perpetuation Fund. Revenue from the GIS service shall be deposited
in the GIS Perpetuation Fund, Fund Number 4927. Expenditures from this fund may
be used for maintenance and upkeep of the GIS service. This fund shall be
perpetual and any balance remaining at the end of the fiscal year is
nonreverting. If this fund is terminated by future ordinance, any remaining
balance shall be transferred to the Dearborn County general fund.
   (D)   Terms of use. With the assistance of the Dearborn County Attorney, the
Dearborn County Planning and Zoning Department shall develop such disclaimers,
usage agreements, license agreements, and other agreements containing the terms
of use applicable to the Dearborn County GIS and the data and products it
produces which are reasonably necessary to protect the interests of Dearborn
County, Indiana. Exceptions to the use of the standard Dearborn County GIS
terms of use developed by the Dearborn County Planning and Zoning Department
shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn
County, Indiana.
   (E)   Use of fees. All fees collected pursuant to this section for the
Dearborn County GIS shall be distributed to and paid into the Dearborn County
GIS Perpetuation Fund in accordance with division (C) above.
   (F)   GIS Coordinator. Subject to funds being appropriated by the Dearborn
County Council, Dearborn County, Indiana may employ a GIS Coordinator or, in
the alternative and by agreement executed by the Dearborn County Commissioners,
enter into contract(s) with a third party to act as the GIS Coordinator for
Dearborn County, Indiana.
(BC Ord. 2011-09, passed 8-16-11; Am. BC Ord. 2019-016, passed 10- 15-19; Am.
BC Ord. 2021-008, passed 8-3-21)
§ 34.24 REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to Indiana “Home Rule” statutes, the Dearborn County
Redevelopment Commission Fund is hereby established by the Dearborn County
Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Effective August 1, 2013 and continuing thenceforth, the assets in the
Dearborn County Redevelopment Commission shall be maintained by the county.
   (C)   As of August 1, 2013, all assets in the Dearborn County Redevelopment
Commission shall be deposited with the county, shall be maintained in Account
Number                  , and all claims shall be delivered to, and paid by,
the Dearborn County Auditor.
(BC Ord. 2013-015, passed 8-6-13)
§ 34.25 LOIT 2016 SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION HOLDING FUND.
   There is hereby established for the county Fund 7315, designated as the LOIT
2016 Special Distribution Holding Fund, to receive and hold all funds from the
2016 LOIT special distribution until the County Auditor has distributed to each
taxing unit an amount equal to the taxing unit’s allocated amount
(BC Ord. 2016-004, passed 6-7-16)
§ 34.26 LOIT 2016 SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of fund.  There is hereby established for the county
Fund 1228, designated as the LOIT Special Distribution, to receive and account
for the 75% restricted portion of the one-time special distribution of local
option income taxes in 2016.
   (B)   Purpose of the fund. As provided by I.C. 6-3.6-9-17, the LOIT Special
Distribution Fund may be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Engineering, land acquisition, construction, resurfacing,
maintenance, restoration or rehabilitation of both local and arterial road and
street systems;
      (2)   The payment of principal and interest on bonds sold primarily to
finance road, street or thoroughfare projects;
      (3)   Any local costs required to undertake a recreational or reservoir
road project under I.C. 8-23-5;
      (4)   The purchase, rental or repair of highway equipment;
      (5)   Providing a match for a grant from the local road and bridge
matching grant fund under I.C. 8-23-30;
      (6)   Capital projects for aviation-related property or facilities,
including capital projects of a board of aviation commissioners established
under I.C. 8-22-2, or an airport authority established under I.C. 8-22-3-1.
   (C)   Appropriations.  The LOIT Special Distribution Fund is subject to the
same appropriation process as other funds that receive tax money.
   (D)   Source of funds.  The LOIT Special Distribution Fund shall be a non-
reverting fund, with all unused monies in the fund at the end of each fiscal
year remaining in the LOIT Special Distribution Fund.
   (E)   Unrestricted portion of special distribution. The remaining and
unrestricted portion of the 2016 one-time special distribution of local option
income tax revenues pursuant to Senate Enrolled Act 67 under I.C. 6-3.6-9-17,
being 25% of the special distribution, will be deposited in the Rainy Day Fund
(BC Ord. 2016-004, passed 6-7-16)
§ 34.27 PARK AND RECREATION BOARD DONATION FUND.
   (A)   The Dearborn County Park and Recreation Board is hereby authorized,
pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-18(a), to "accept gifts, donations, and subsidies for
park and recreational purposes";
   (B)   There is hereby established a Donation Fund for the Dearborn County
Park and Recreation Board for the deposit of monies gifted or granted to the
Dearborn County Park and Recreation Board;
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-18(a), a gift or transfer of property may not
be made without the approval of the Dearborn County Park and Recreation Board;
   (D)   Pursuant to Indiana Code § 36-10-3-18(b), the Donation Fund is a
special non- reverting fund to be available for expenditure by the Dearborn
County Park and Recreation Board for purposes specified by the Grantor; and
   (E)   The Auditor of Dearborn County, Indiana may draw warrants against the
Donation Fund only upon vouchers signed by the President and Secretary of the
Dearborn County Park and Recreation Board.
(BC Ord. 2019-003, passed 4-16-19)
§ 34.28 PROSECUTOR'S LABORATORY SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Laboratory Services Fund as part of the
annual budget of the Dearborn County Prosecutor's Office;
   (B)   Monies collected from criminal defendants, upon conviction, for blood
sample testing shall be deposited into the Laboratory Services Fund. The amount
to be paid by the criminal defendant shall be determined by the Judge of the
Dearborn Circuit and/or Superior Courts at the time the criminal defendant is
sentenced;
   (C)   Grant monies awarded to the Dearborn County Prosecutor's Office for
drug testing shall also be deposited into the Laboratory Services Fund;
   (D)   Any costs of blood draw testing shall be paid out of the Laboratory
Services Fund by the Dearborn County Prosecutor's Office; and
   (E)   The Laboratory Services Fund is a special non-reverting fund to be
available for expenditure by the Dearborn County Prosecutor's Office in
accordance with this section.
(BC Ord. 2019-006, passed 5-21-19)
§ 34.29 HOSPITAL PROCEEDS RESTRICTED FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a non-reverting restricted fund as
authorized by I.C. 16-22-3-18(e)(1) which shall be known as the Hospital
Proceeds Restricted Fund.
   (B)   Proceeds from the sale of Dearborn County Hospital (d/b/a Highpoint
Health) shall be deposited into the Hospital Proceeds Restricted Fund;
   (C)   The proceeds deposited into the Fund shall be restricted beginning on
the date of deposit and continuing for a period of ten years;
   (D)   The deposited proceeds may only be used to pay any expenses related to
the liabilities assumed by Dearborn County as outlined in the Asset Acquisition
Agreement;
      (1)   “Expenses” includes, but is not limited to, the payment of: claims,
settlement(s), judgment(s), litigation fees such as attorneys' fees and expert
fees, and professional service fees for accounting, investing, and the like;
   (E)   At the conclusion of the ten-year restricted period, any proceeds
remaining in the Restricted Fund may:
      (1)   Remain in the Fund and be used for any purpose which promotes the
health and welfare of the citizens of Dearborn County, Indiana;
      (2)   Be transferred to any other existing or newly created fund as
agreed to by the Dearborn County Council and the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners and by following the procedures for transferring funds as
outlined in the Indiana Code; and/or
      (3)   Be transferred to the County General Fund by following the
procedures for transferring funds as outlined in the Indiana Code.
   (F)   At the conclusion of the ten-year restricted period, the remaining
proceeds may all be used in the same manner or the proceeds may be split up
between any of the options outlined in (E)(1), (E)(2), and/or (E)(3).
(BC-DCC Ord. 2020-001, passed 2- 4-20)
§ 34.30 DECLARED EMERGENCY FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant tot he Home Rule powers of Dearborn County, Indiana, the
Dearborn County Board of Commissioners do hereby create the Declared Emergency
Fund.
   (B)   Any monies deposited into said Declared Emergency Fund may only be
expended in a situation where an emergency has been declared at the federal,
state, and/or local level.
   (C)   Any monies in the Declared Emergency Fund can only be expended to
combat any declared emergency and to protect the citizens of Dearborn County,
Indiana.
(BC Ord. 2020-006, passed 3-17-20)
§ 34.31 COUNTY HOSPITAL REMAINDER FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a non-reverting fund which shall be known
as the County Hospital Remainder Fund.
   (B)   Any funds that are transferred to the county, following the conclusion
of all business affairs, obligations, and outstanding liabilities of Highpoint
Health (f/k/a Dearborn County Hospital) may be deposited into the County
Hospital Remainder Fund and/or the County General Fund.
   (C)   Any funds deposited into the County Hospital Remainder Fund may be
utilized to pay unknown expenses that may be incurred related to the settlement
of Dearborn County Hospital (a/k/a Highpoint Health) liabilities to the State
of Indiana for the non-state governmental nursing facility program, other state
programs including, but not limited to, the Disproportionate Share Hospital
Program and other Upper Payment Limit/Intergovernmental Transfer Programs,
closure of the Dearborn County Hospital Pension Plan, auditing and accounting
expenses for the filing of Dearborn County Hospital’s single audit and provider
relief funds (PRF) reporting, and any other unknown expenses related to
Dearborn County Hospital.
(BC Ord. 2022-001, passed 1-18-22; Am. BC Ord. 2022-008, passed 8-16-22)
§ 34.32 CAMPAIGN FINANCE ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-9-4-17, the Board of Commissioners do hereby create
Fund Number 1111, which is a non- reverting fund that is designated as the
Campaign Finance Enforcement Fund.
   (B)   Any monies deposited into said fund may only be utilized to augment
and supplement the administration of I.C. 3-9.
   (C)   Any monies in the Campaign Finance Enforcement Fund may be expended as
appropriated by the Dearborn County Council to augment and supplement the
administration of I.C. 3-9.
(BC Ord. 2022-004, passed 3-15-22)
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   Innkeeper’s Tax
   
35.02   Payment of property tax in one installment
   35.03   Infrastructure development zone
§ 35.01 INNKEEPER'S TAX.
   (A)   A county tax in the amount of 5% is hereby imposed on gross retail
income derived from lodging income. The tax is imposed on the gross retail
income derived from lodging income only and is in addition to the State of
Indiana gross retail tax imposed under I.C. 6-2.5.
   (B)   The innkeeper's tax is hereby imposed on every person engaged in the
business of renting or furnishing for periods of less than 30 days, any room or
rooms, lodgings, or accommodations in any:
      (1)   Hotel;
      (2)   Motel;
      (3)   Boat motel;
      (4)   Inn; and/or
      (5)   Tourist cabin.
   (C)   The innkeeper's tax shall be reported on forms approved by the State
of Indiana Department of Revenue. The innkeeper's tax shall be imposed, paid,
and collected by the State of Indiana Department of Revenue in exactly the same
manner as the State of Indiana gross retail tax is imposed, paid, and collected
under I.C. 6-2.5.
   (D)   The amounts received from the innkeeper's tax imposed under this
section shall be paid monthly by the Treasurer of the State of Indiana to the
Dearborn County Treasurer upon warrants being issued by the Auditor of the
State of Indiana. The Dearborn County Treasurer shall deposit all amounts
received into the Dearborn County Convention, Recreation, and Visitor Promotion
Fund.
   (E)   The Dearborn County Auditor shall issue a warrant directing the
Dearborn County Treasurer to transfer money from the Convention, Recreation,
and Visitor Promotion Fund to the Treasurer of the Dearborn County Convention,
Visitor, and Tourism Commission if the Commission submits a written request for
transfer.
   (F)   Funds transferred to the Dearborn County Convention, Visitor, and
Tourism Commission may be expended only to promote and encourage conventions,
trade shows, special events, recreation, and visitors for industrial
development within Dearborn County or for any other purpose subsequently
authorized by law.
(CC Ord. 1-1995, passed 4-18-95; Am. CC Ord. 2019-010, passed 11-26-19)
§ 35.02 PAYMENT OF PROPERTY TAX IN ONE INSTALLMENT.
   (A)   Real and personal property taxes including mobile home assessments
shall be paid in one installment on May 10 of each year provided that the total
tax liability for property covered by a particular tax statement is less than
$25 for the year that it is due.
   (B)   The tax liability shall be paid in the same manner in each subsequent
year.
   (C)   This payment shall apply to payments for real and personal property
including mobile home assessments unless otherwise provided by state law.
   (D)   Property taxes not paid on or before said due date shall be subject to
penalties prescribed under state law and shall be added to the delinquent
taxes.
   (E)   In all respects this procedure shall be governed by I.C. 6-1.1-22-
9 and by state law.
(CC Ord. 3-1995, passed 8-22-95)
§ 35.03 INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT ZONE.
   (A)   Designation of an Infrastructure Development Zone. The Dearborn County
Board of Commissioners hereby adopt an Infrastructure Development Zone in
accordance with I.C. 6-1.1-12.5-4, as follows:
      (1)   The Infrastructure Development Zone is hereby designated as the
entire unincorporated area of Dearborn County.
      (2)   The Infrastructure Development Zone is established to encourage the
development of adequate broadband services to all Dearborn County residents
residing in the Infrastructure Development Zone.
      (3)   A business personal property tax exemption may be granted to
businesses for certain infrastructure associated with the development of
broadband technology within the Infrastructure Development Zone.
      (4)   The business personal property tax exemption for broadband
technology infrastructure shall only be granted for the original and new
installation of broadband technology which will provide fiber to homes,
businesses, farms, schools, and publicly owned buildings.
      (5)   The exemption shall not be available for:
         (a)   Facilities or infrastructure located in the Infrastructure
Development Zone which was already installed, or was in the process of being
installed, at the time of the designation of the Infrastructure Development
Zone;
         (b)   The repair, maintenance, and/or refurbishment of existing
facilities or infrastructure installed within the Infrastructure Development
Zone;
         (c)   The land on which the infrastructure or facilities are located;
         (d)   Fiber utilized to service cell towers; and/or
         (e)   Long haul and/or pass through fiber infrastructure.
      (6)   The business personal property exemption shall only be available to
broadband infrastructure projects completed within six years from the date of
the designation of the Infrastructure Development Zone unless further extended
by adoption of subsequent ordinance.
   (B)   Conflicting ordinances. In the event any other ordinance or any
provision of any other ordinance of Dearborn County is in conflict with the
provisions of this section, the provisions of this section shall prevail.
   (C)   Severability. The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence, and/or
provision of this section shall not affect the validity of any other part of
this section which can be given effect without the invalid part or parts.
   (D)   Effective date and miscellaneous provisions. This section shall be in
full force and effect upon its passage by the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners. This section shall be placed in the Dearborn County, Indiana
Code of Ordinances. A copy of this section shall be provided to the Dearborn
County Assessor.
(BC Ord. 2020-008, passed 10-6-20)
CHAPTER 36: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Purpose
   
36.03   Definitions
   
36.03   General scope; intent
   
36.04   Limitations
Department of Emergency Management
   
36.15   County Emergency Management Advisory Council
   
36.16   Same—Powers and duties
   
36.17   Director of Emergency Management
   
36.18   Same—Powers and duties
   
36.19   Department of Emergency Management
   
36.20   Same—Duties
   
36.21   Same—Budge and finance
   
36.22   Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
   
36.23   Jurisdiction and political subdivisions
   
36.24   Comprehensive emergency management plan—Test
   
36.25   Board of Commissioners—Powers and duties
Emergency Management Program
   
36.35   Applicability
   
36.36   Principal Executive Officer—Special emergency powers and duties
   
36.37   Board of Commissioners—Convention of special emergency meeting
   
36.38   Same—Special emergency powers and duties
   
36.39   Officers and employees of incorporated and unincorporated areas—Duties
during emergency
   
36.40   Penalties; enforcement
   
36.41   Limitation of liability
   
36.42   Compensation for property
Emergency Travel Restrictions
   
36.55   Emergency travel restrictions
   
36.56   Exemptions
Cross-reference:
Communications Board to assist county emergency management agency, see §
32.003
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 PURPOSE.
   To establish in Dearborn County a Department of Emergency Management and to
provide for the exercise of necessary powers during disaster emergencies.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY COUNCIL. The County Emergency Management Advisory Council as
established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   BOARD. The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners, as elected pursuant to
I.C. 36-2-2.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the County Emergency Management Advisory
Council as established under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   COUNTY. Dearborn County, Indiana.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Department of Emergency Management, as established
under this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DIRECTOR. The County Emergency Management Director, as established and
appointed pursuant to this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   DISASTER. The meaning established in I.C. 10-14-3-1: which, at the time this
chapter is adopted, means:
      (1)   An occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural phenomenon or
human act.
      (2)   This term includes any of the following:
         (a)   Fire;
         (b)   Flood;
         (c)   Earthquake;
         (d)   Windstorm;
         (e)   Snowstorm;
         (f)   Ice storm;
         (g)   Tornado;
         (h)   Wave action;
         (i)   Oil spill;
         (j)   Other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert
danger or damage;
         (k)   Air contamination;
         (l)   Drought;
         (m)   Explosion;
         (n)   Technological emergency;
         (o)   Utility failure;
         (p)   Critical shortages of essential fuels or energy;
         (q)   Major transportation accident;
         (r)   Hazardous material or chemical incident;
         (s)   Radiological incident;
         (t)   Nuclear incident;
         (u)   Biological incident;
         (v)   Epidemic;
         (w)   Public health emergency;
         (x)   Animal disease event requiring emergency action;
         (y)   Blight;
         (z)   Infestation;
         (aa)   Riot;
         (bb)   Hostile military or paramilitary action;
         (cc)   Act of terrorism;
         (dd)   Any other public calamity requiring emergency action.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The meaning established in I.C. 10-14-3-2; which, at
the time this chapter is adopted, means:
      (1)   The preparation for and the coordination of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which military forces or other federal
agencies are primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and
damage resulting from disasters.
      (2)   The functions include the following:
         (a)   Firefighting services;
         (b)   Police services;
         (c)   Medical and health services;
         (d)   Rescue;
         (e)   Engineering;
         (f)   Warning services;
         (g)   Communications;
         (h)   Radiological, chemical, and other special weapons defense;
         (i)   Evacuation of persons from stricken areas;
         (j)   Emergency welfare services;
         (k)   Emergency transportation;
         (l)   Plant protection;
         (m)   Temporary restoration of public utility services;
         (n)   Other functions related to civilian protection;
         (o)   All other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation
for and coordination of the functions described in (a) through (o) above.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Department of Emergency Management, being first duly given the loyalty
oath mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-27 and rostered and appointed by the Director,
including persons and private agencies or governmental units offering services
to the county during emergency situations or mutual aid to other emergency
services who request assistance.
   IDHS. The Indiana Department of Homeland Security established under I.C. 10-
19-2-1.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated in the emergency
operations plan to participate in emergency management activities; and
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a municipal
corporation or a volunteer organization designated to participate in the
county’s emergency management programs and activities pursuant to a cooperative
or mutual aid agreement entered into pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17.
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management
volunteers, unless otherwise indicated.
   PLAN or EMERGENCY PLAN. The current local Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan whose preparation and updating are mandated by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h).
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COUNTY. As referred to in I.C. 10-14-3-29
(a) for purposes of declaring a local disaster emergency, and as referred to
hereinafter, means the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners established under
I.C. 36-2-2. If a quorum of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners (two of
the three Commissioners) is unavailable or is incapacitated, then the following
establishes the line of succession for the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
      (1)   Regularly designated President of the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners. If a quorum of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners (two
of the three Commissioners as established under I.C. 36-2-4-3) is unavailable
or is incapacitated, then the regularly designated President of the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER
for the purposes of this chapter until the time that a quorum of the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (2)   President Pro-Tern of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners.
If both a quorum of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners and the
regularly designated President of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners
are unavailable or incapacitated, then the President Pro-Tern of the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER
for the purposes of this section until such time that either the regularly
designated President or a quorum of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners
is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (3)   Remaining Commissioner of the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners. If a quorum of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners, the
regularly designated President of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners
and the President Pro-Tern of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners are
all unavailable or are incapacitated, then the remaining Commissioner of the
Dearborn County Board of Commissioners shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE
OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter until the time that the President Pro-
Tern, the regularly designated President or a quorum of the Dearborn County
Board of Commissioners is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (4)   County Auditor. If all of the Dearborn County Commissioners are
unavailable or incapacitated, then the Dearborn County Auditor shall serve as
the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter until such
time that a Dearborn County Commissioner is no longer unavailable or
incapacitated.
      (5)   County Clerk. If all of the Dearborn County Commissioners and the
Dearborn County Auditor are unavailable or incapacitated, then the Dearborn
County Clerk shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of
this chapter until such time that a Dearborn County Commissioner or the
Dearborn County Auditor is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (6)   County Recorder. If all of the Dearborn County Commissioners, the
Dearborn County Auditor, and the Dearborn County Clerk are unavailable or
incapacitated, then the Dearborn County Recorder shall serve as the PRINCIPAL
EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the purposes of this chapter until such time that a
Dearborn County Commissioner, the Dearborn County Auditor, or the Dearborn
County Clerk is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
      (7)   DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. If all of the Dearborn County
Commissioners, the Dearborn County Auditor, the Dearborn County Clerk, and the
Dearborn County Recorder are unavailable or incapacitated, then the Director of
Emergency Management shall serve as the PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER for the
purposes of this chapter until such time that a Dearborn County Commissioner,
the Dearborn County Auditor, the Dearborn County Clerk, or the Dearborn County
Recorder is no longer unavailable or incapacitated.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.03 GENERAL SCOPE; INTENT.
   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
indispensable powers and procedures reasonably needed to mitigate, prepare for,
respond to and recover from emergency conditions. To this end, all powers, both
ministerial and discretionary, as conferred herein, shall be liberally
construed to supplement and augment, not to limit, any other powers or
reasonable exercises of discretion which may ordinarily pertain to county
officers, employees, departments and agencies.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.04 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit any
statutory power of the Dearborn County Sheriff.
   (B)   Nothing in this section is intended to supersede or delimit the powers
granted under I.C. 10-14-3-17 to any political subdivision to adopt and
implement emergency plans and promulgate and enforce emergency management rules
and regulations in the advent of an actual emergency affecting the political
subdivision. However, pursuant to I.C.10-14-3-22, the regulations and
procedures as promulgated by the political subdivision may not be inconsistent
with the County Emergency Management Program and Emergency Plan established in
accordance with this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 36.15 COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   The Dearborn County Emergency Management Advisory Council is established by
I.C. 10-14-3-17(c) and under this statute consists of the following individuals
or their designee:
   (A)   The President of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners;
   (B)   The President of Dearborn County Council;
   (C)   Each Mayor from each municipality in the County: Aurora, Greendale and
Lawrenceburg;
   (D)   One individual representing each of the legislative bodies of the
Towns in Dearborn County: Dillsboro, Moores Hill, St. Leon and West Harrison;
   (E)   The Sheriff of Dearborn County or designee of a rank no lower than
sergeant;
   (F)   The Director of 911; and
   (G)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may also appoint for two-
year terms a maximum of three persons who represent private and public agencies
or organizations which can be of assistance to emergency management as the
organizing group considers appropriate, or as may be added later by the
Dearborn County Emergency Management Advisory Council.
(BC Ord. 2013-001, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.16 SAME—POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Dearborn County Emergency Management Advisory
Council are established by I.C. 10-14-3-17(d) and under this statute consist of
the following:
   (A)   The Advisory Council shall elect a Chairman, Vice-Chairman, and
Secretary from its membership. The elected officers shall be elected at the
first regular meeting of the Advisory Council in a calendar year and shall
serve in such capacity until a member of the Advisory Council has been elected
to replace them. A vacancy in any elected office shall be filled by vote of the
Advisory Council at any regular or special meeting. Their term of office shall
end at the end of the meeting where their successor has been elected;
   (B)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least once quarterly and said
meetings shall comply with the Indiana “Open Door Law” (I.C. 5-14-1.5 et seq.);
   (C)   The Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control
over the emergency management and disaster program of Dearborn County;
   (D)   The Advisory Council shall select, or cause to be selected, with the
approval of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners, a County Emergency
Management Director. Qualifications for the Director will be determined by the
Advisory Council with input from the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners and
the Director of the Emergency Response and Recovery Division of the IDHS;
   (E)   The statute establishing the powers and duties of the Advisory Council
does not describe the procedure to be used to terminate a County Emergency
Management Director. However, the statute does require the Advisory Council to
select the Director and obtain approval from the Board of Commissioners for
this selection before a Director can be appointed. Therefore, the Advisory
Council may make a determination to terminate a Director, but this
determination is subject to the approval of the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners before the termination is final. Accordingly, the Director shall
serve at the pleasure of the Advisory Council as well as the Dearborn County
Commissioners, and his or her employment shall be at-will.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.17 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the Advisory Council,
shall be the executive head of the Department and, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17
(d)(2)(A), has direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the Department, including the specific powers and duties
enumerated in §
36.18.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.18 SAME—POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Director of Emergency of Emergency Management shall have the following
specific powers and duties:
   (A)   The Director, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-17(d)(2)(B), is responsible to
the Chairman of the Advisory Council and, as such, shall keep the Chairman
fully informed on emergency management activities and shall provide reports to
the Advisory Council if so directed by the Chairperson of the Advisory Council;
   (B)   The Director shall keep the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners
fully informed on emergency management activities;
   (C)   The Director shall submit to the Advisory Council and the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners a yearly report on the county’s comprehensive
emergency management, including mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery
taken in the previous year and planned and recommended for the year to come;
   (D)   The Director shall ensure that all of the duties and responsibilities
of the Department of Emergency Management are completed;
   (E)   The Director shall ensure that all county employees and rostered
volunteers with responsibilities as part of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan receive training in the functions that they are to perform
under the Plan;
   (F)   The Director shall design and conduct exercises of the Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan as required by the IDHS;
   (G)   The Director shall ensure that the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan addresses all hazards and includes all cities, towns and other population
centers within Dearborn County;
   (H)   The Director shall submit to the IDHS the assessment specified in
IDHS’s required format and within IDHS’s required time frame for submission;
   (I)   The Director shall provide to the IDHS Executive Director annual
reports and documentation as mandated;
   (J)   The Director shall completely manage the Department’s various
functions including, among others, financial, personnel and logistic;
   (K)   The Director shall timely obey to the directives of superior state
authorities;
   (L)   The Director shall ensure that the activities of the Department at all
times comport with I.C. 10-14-3 and other applicable statutes, rules and county
ordinances;
   (M)   The Director shall develop an Emergency Operating Center (“EOC”) as a
site from which key officials can direct and control operations during a
disaster or emergency;
   (N)   The Director shall attain certification as a basic professional
emergency manager from the IDHS within two years of first assuming the position
of Director. After the Director attains this certification, the Director shall
complete the continuing emergency management education required by the IDHS to
maintain this certification;
   (O)   The Director shall ensure that the Deputy Director attains
certification as a basic professional emergency manager from the IDHS within
four years of first assuming the position of Deputy Director. After the Deputy
Director attains this certification, the Director shall ensure that the Deputy
Director completes the continuing emergency management education required by
the IDHS to maintain this certification;
   (P)   The Director shall attend, and shall ensure that the Deputy Director
and all paid emergency management staff attend, emergency management training
courses as needed to stay up-to-date on the latest advances in emergency
management;
   (Q)   The Director shall assume responsibility for public relations,
information and education regarding all phases of emergency management;
   (R)   The Director shall assure coordination within Dearborn County of all
activities for emergency management;
   (S)   The Director shall maintain liaison and coordinate with all other
affected agencies, public and private;
   (T)   The Director shall coordinate the recruitment and training of
volunteer personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the
county for emergency management purposes;
   (U)   The Director shall seek, negotiate and enter into (with the approval
or ratification of the Dearborn County Commissioners and consistent with the
State Emergency Operations Plan and program) mutual aid arrangements with other
public and private agencies for emergency management purposes, and taking all
steps in accordance with the arrangements to comply with or take advantage
thereof in the event of an actual emergency affecting the parties;
   (V)   The Director shall accept any offer of the federal government to
provide for the use of the county any services, equipment, supplies, materials
or funds for emergency management purposes by way of gift, grant or loan, when
the Governor has approved the officer;
   (W)   The Director shall seek and accept from any person, firm or
corporation, any gratuitous offers to provide services, equipment, supplies,
materials, funds or licenses or privileges to use real estate or other
premises, to Dearborn County for emergency management purposes;
   (X)   The Director shall issue proper insignia and papers to emergency
management workers and other people directly concerned with emergency
management;
   (Y)   The Director shall ensure that all volunteers meet the criteria set
forth in this chapter prior to accepting them as members of the Department;
   (Z)   The Director shall make rapid and accurate assessment of the following
as soon as an emergency or disaster declaration has been made:
      (1)   Property damage;
      (2)   Personal injuries;
      (3)   Fatalities;
      (4)   Basic needs; and
      (5)   Special needs;
   (AA)   The Director shall coordinate the activities of emergency management
volunteers during emergency and non-emergency situations;
   (BB)   The Director shall coordinate and develop the necessary agreements
with the state, other state political subdivisions, political subdivisions in
adjoining states, and private businesses to ensure that Dearborn County will
have access to the resources and personnel that may be needed during an
emergency or disaster;
   (CC)   The Director shall write grant proposals and/or assist with the
writing of grant proposals to promote emergency management, public safety and
homeland security objectives;
   (DD)   In addition to the powers and duties expressly provided above, the
Director shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a local Emergency
Management Director, as provided under I.C. 10-14-3. In particular, but not by
limitation, the Director, through the Department, may perform or cause to be
performed with respect to Dearborn County, any function parallel or analogous
to those performed on a statewide basis by the IDHS under I.C. 10-14-3.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.19 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management
within the Executive Branch of the Dearborn County government for the purpose
of utilizing to the fullest extent possible the personnel and facilities of
existing Dearborn County departments and agencies to prepare for and meet any
disaster, as defined in this chapter. The Director of Emergency Management
shall be responsible for its organization, administration and operation.
   (B)   The Department of Emergency Management shall consist of the following:
      (1)   The Director of Emergency Management;
      (2)   A Deputy Director appointed by the Director with the approval of
the Advisory Council. The Deputy Director shall fulfill the duties of the
Director in the absence or incapacity of the Director to serve and assist the
Director in the performance of the Director’s duties;
      (3)   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and appointed
by the Director. In addition to the other requirements in this chapter, the
Director shall ensure that all volunteer personnel meet the following
qualifications before being placed on the roster as a member of the Department:
         (a)   Be at least 18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Not be convicted of a felony; and
         (c)   Have completed and have on file with the Department an A-l 1
application form;
      (4)   The employees, equipment and facilities of all Dearborn County
departments and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to emergency management and
designated by the Emergency Plan to participate in emergency management
activity;
      (5)   Staff officers with responsibility for communications and warning,
radiological, health and medical care, law enforcement, fire and search and
rescue, public works and public information in accordance with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (6)   The assistants, clerical help and other employees as deemed
necessary and appointed by the Director in accordance with the Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27(a), no person shall be employed or
associated in any capacity in any emergency management organization established
under this chapter who:
      (1)   Advocates a change by force or violence in the constitutional form
of the government of the United States or the overthrow of any government in
the United States by force or violence; or
      (2)   Has been convicted of or is under indictment or information
charging any subversive acts against the United States.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-27(b), each individual who is appointed to
serve in an organization for emergency management shall, before entering upon
the individual’s duties, take a loyalty oath, in writing, before a person
authorized to administer oaths in the state.
      (1)   The loyalty oath shall be substantially as follows:
“I,______________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Indiana against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true faith
and allegiance to the same; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I a member of any political party or
organization that advocates, the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this state by force or violence; and that during such time as I am
a member of the Dearborn County Department of Emergency Management I will not
advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization that
advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this state
by force or violence.”
      (2)   In accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-27(c), the Executive Director of
the IDHS and the County Emergency Management Director may administer this
loyalty oath and may delegate the authority to administer the loyalty oath to
designated deputies and assistants approved by the Executive Director of the
IDHS.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-44-3-26, the Department shall not:
      (1)   Participate in any form of political activity; or
      (2)   Be employed directly or indirectly for political purposes.
   (F)   The Dearborn County Council shall not have any power of approval over
particular candidates for any position, but the Dearborn County Council shall
have general statutory powers to determine the number of officers, deputies,
and employees of Dearborn County departments, classify positions and adopt
schedules of compensation pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3(a). Notwithstanding any
other provision in this chapter, with the exception of the Director, a
compensated position may not be established within the Department of Emergency
Management nor shall any person be appointed to the position without
authorization and sufficient funding from the Dearborn County Council.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.20 SAME—DUTIES.
   The Department, subject to the direction and control of the Director, shall
prepare and implement the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, including
the following specific duties:
   (A)    Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials a clear and
complete written statement of the emergency responsibilities of all local
agencies and officials and the disaster chain of command in accordance with
I.C. 10-14-3-17(i);
   (B)   Work closely with officers and employees of incorporated and
unincorporated areas of Dearborn County to develop a hazard mitigation program
to eliminate or reduce potential hazards;
   (C)   Write and implement the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, which
shall conform to the guidelines contained in the most current state and federal
guidance documents (Dearborn County cannot receive state and/or federal
matching funds unless this is done), and the requirements established in this
chapter. As part of the preparation of this Plan, the Department shall:
      (1)   Identify and analyze the effects of hazards that threaten Dearborn
County;
      (2)   Inventory manpower and material resources from governmental and
private sector sources that would be available in a disaster or emergency;
      (3)   Establish a system to alert key officials in event of a disaster or
emergency;
      (4)   Identify resource deficiencies and work with appropriate officials
on measures to correct them;
      (5)   Develop and maintain an emergency communications system, thus
assuring proper functioning of emergency communications throughout Dearborn
County, including all cities and towns;
      (6)   Take all actions necessary to ensure the continuity of government
procedures and systems in the event of a disaster;
      (7)   Establish and maintain a shelter and reception and care system for
both people and animals;
      (8)   Develop a training program for emergency response personnel
ensuring that mitigation, training and exercising have been performed for all
such personnel; and
      (9)   Coordinate with industry to develop and maintain industrial
emergency plans and capabilities in support of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan;
   (D)   Update the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan as needed to keep
it current, as required by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h); and
   (E)   Develop a program to test and exercise the Emergency Plan.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.21 SAME—BUDGET AND FINANCE.
   (A)   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in the preparation of
the budget.
   (B)   The Dearborn County Council shall appropriate such funds, as it may
deem necessary, for the purpose of emergency management.
   (C)   All funds appropriated or otherwise available to the Department of
Emergency Management shall be administered by the Director.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.22 COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   A County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, referred to as the
Interjurisdictional Disaster Emergency Plan by I.C. 10-14-3-17(h), shall be
adopted by resolution of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners. In the
preparation of this Plan, as it pertains to county organization, it is the
intent that the services, equipment, facilities and personnel of all existing
departments and agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent possible.
   (B)   The Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall include, at minimum,
the following:
      (1)   An administrative section which includes:
         (a)   Authorities and directives;
         (b)   Terms and definitions;
         (c)    Acronyms/abbreviations; and
         (d)   Financial management.
      (2)   A hazard specific section which includes:
         (a)   Unique hazards; and
         (b)   Special events.
      (3)   An operation section which includes:
         (a)   Coordination and control emergency support function;
         (b)   Communications and warning emergency support function;
         (c)   Public information emergency support function;
         (d)   Resource management emergency support function; and
         (e)   Information and planning emergency support function.
      (4)   An emergency services section which includes:
         (a)   Military emergency support function;
         (b)   Law enforcement emergency support function;
         (c)   Firefighting emergency support function;
         (d)   Transportation emergency support function;
         (e)   Health and medical emergency support function;
         (f)   Search and rescue emergency support function; and
         (g)   Public works/engineering emergency support function.
      (5)   A consequent effects section which includes:
         (a)   Evacuation emergency support function;
         (b)   Shelter/mass care emergency support function;
         (c)   Damage assessment emergency support function;
         (d)   Hazardous materials emergency support function;
         (e)   Radiological protection emergency support function; and
         (f)   Energy emergency support function.
   (C)   In addition, all emergency services within Dearborn County shall:
      (1)   Develop standard operating procedures, standard operating guides
and checklists that are drafted subject to the requirements of the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (2)   Coordinate standard operating procedures, standard operating guides
and checklists with the Department of Emergency Management;
      (3)   Assure inclusion of the standard operating procedures, standard
operating guides and checklists within the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan;
      (4)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the County
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan; and
      (5)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.23 JURISDICTION AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided hereby, the jurisdiction of the Dearborn County
Department of Emergency Management shall be comprehensive and inclusive
countywide and effective in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of
Dearborn County.
   (B)   The jurisdiction and applicability of the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan, as adopted pursuant to §
36.22, and the exercise of any powers of the principal executive officer of
Dearborn County and of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners under §
36.25, shall be comprehensive and inclusive countywide and effective in both
the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Dearborn County.
   (C)   All political subdivisions in Dearborn County shall, if they develop a
plan for their political subdivision:
      (1)   Ensure that the plan is consistent with the requirements of the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
      (2)   Coordinate the development of the plan with the Dearborn County
Department of Emergency Management;
      (3)   Ensure the inclusion of the plan within the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan;
      (4)   Perform the functions and duties assigned by the Comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan; and
      (5)   Maintain their portion of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.24 COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN—TEST.
   (A)   Tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan may be conducted
by the Director at any time upon approval of the Advisory Council.
   (B)   All emergency tests conducted within the boundaries of Dearborn County
shall be coordinated with the Department of Emergency Management, the Dearborn
County Sheriff’s Department, and any other agencies deemed appropriate by the
Dearborn County Board of Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.25 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS—POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In time of normal county operations, powers and duties of the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners pertaining to emergency management shall be:
   (A)   Maintaining general supervision over the planning and administration
for the Department of Emergency Management;
   (B)   Adopting the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (C)   Coordinating emergency management activities consistent with the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (D)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management
activities consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (E)   Making assignments of county personnel to emergency management duties
in order to meet situations not covered in the normal duties and powers of such
agencies consistent with the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan;
   (F)   Taking all necessary action in coordination with the Department of
Emergency Management to conduct tests of the Comprehensive Emergency Management
Plan; and
   (G)   Educating themselves as to their responsibilities under the
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
§ 36.35 APPLICABILITY.
   This section shall apply whenever:
   (A)   The Governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12 has declared a disaster
emergency affecting all or part of Dearborn County;
   (B)   The principal executive officer of the county, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-
3-29(a) and §
36.37 below, is preparing to, or has declared, a local disaster emergency
affecting all or part of the county; and/or
   (C)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of
the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and procedures in accordance with
and to the extent necessary or dispensable to such test.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.36 PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER— SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   In the event of an actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting
the county, if feasible, the principal executive officer of the county shall
seek the advice and input of the Director as to the advisability of declaring a
local disaster emergency.
   (B)   If the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners, acting as the principal
executive officer of Dearborn County, is the entity declaring the local
disaster emergency, then the statutory requirements contained in I.C. 36-2-2-
8 and 5-14-1.5-5(d) regarding special and emergency meetings of the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners must be met.
   (C)   The principal executive officer of Dearborn County may, in the event
of an actual or threatened disaster emergency affecting Dearborn County,
declare a local disaster emergency pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29(a). This
declaration shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   State the nature of the disaster;
      (3)   State the conditions that have brought the disaster about;
      (4)   State the area or areas threatened or affected;
      (5)   State the area or areas to which the local disaster emergency
declaration applies (this may include the entire county or only designated
parts thereof); and
      (6)   State the effective period of the local disaster emergency
declaration. The disaster declaration shall not be continued or renewed for a
period in excess of seven days, except by or with the consent of the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   The declaration of a local disaster emergency, as well as any
continuation or termination of the declaration shall be:
      (1)   Announced or disseminated to the general public by the best means
available; and
      (2)   Filed promptly in the offices of the Dearborn County Clerk, the
Dearborn County Auditor and the Clerk of any incorporated municipality located
in the declared disaster area.
   (E)   The declaration shall not be invalidated or ineffective if any of the
filing and dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the
prevailing adverse circumstances.
   (F)   Upon a declaration, the Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan or the
component parts thereof as may be relevant to the emergency shall be activated
and implemented.
   (G)   In the event that a disaster emergency has been declared that affects
all or part of Dearborn County and a quorum of the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners cannot be assembled for purposes of the meeting needed under §
36.37 below, the principal executive officer of Dearborn County shall have, on
an interim basis, all powers of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners and
may take all such actions with respect to the disaster emergency declaration
that the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners would have been authorized to
take.
   (H)   When a quorum of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners is
assembled, these interim powers of the principal executive officer of Dearborn
County shall cease.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.37 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS— CONVENTION OF SPECIAL EMERGENCY MEETING.
   (A)   As allowed by I.C. 36-2-2-8 and 5-14-1.5-5(d), a special meeting of
the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners shall be called as soon as possible
after the disaster emergency that affects Dearborn County has been declared,
either by the Governor or by the principal executive officer of Dearborn
County, to perform their legislative and administrative functions as the
situation may demand.
   (B)   As required by I.C. 36-2-2-8 and 5-14-1.5-5(d), the following
conditions must be met for this meeting:
      (1)   The notice for the meeting must include a specific statement of the
purpose of the meeting.
      (2)   News media that have requested notice of meetings must be given the
same notice as is given the members of the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners.
      (3)   The public must be notified of this meeting by posting a copy of
the notice at the principal office of the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting
is to be held.
      (4)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may not conduct any
business at this meeting that is unrelated to the disaster emergency
declaration.
      (5)   All other such requirements that are applicable to a meeting that
is called to deal with an emergency.
   (C)   In addition, such a meeting may:
      (1)   Be held in any convenient and available place;
      (2)   Continue without adjournment for the duration of the disaster
emergency; and
      (3)   Be recessed for reasonable periods of time as necessary and
permitted by the circumstances.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.38 SAME—SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   At the meeting convened under §
36.37 above, the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may exercise any of
their normal executive and legislative powers to the extent related to the
emergency and necessary to deal therewith.
   (B)   In addition to the powers enumerated in §
36.38(A) above, the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may also exercise
any of the following special and extraordinary powers:
      (1)   the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may extend the period of
a local disaster emergency declared by the principal executive officer of
Dearborn County, pursuant to §
36.36 above, to last more than seven days if necessary:
      (2)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may terminate the local
disaster emergency unless said disaster emergency has been declared by the
Governor;
      (3)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may assemble and utilize
emergency management resources, including:
         (a)   Personnel of the Department of Emergency Management;
         (b)   Participating emergency services; and
         (c)   Any other resources at the disposal of the Dearborn County
Commissioners hereunder for emergency management purposes;
      (4)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may order volunteer
forces which have been activated pursuant to the Comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan to the aid of Dearborn County, the State of Indiana or
political subdivisions thereof as soon as practicable. These volunteer forces
shall be under the direction of the Department of Emergency Management;
      (5)   In order to control the local disaster emergency and provide for
public health, safety and welfare, the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners
may, to the extent permitted by I.C. 10-14-3-31 and subject to its provisions,
command services and/or requisition the use of:
         (a)   Equipment;
         (b)   Facilities;
         (c)   Supplies; or
         (d)   Other property;
      (6)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may order the evacuation
of all or part of the population from stricken areas of Dearborn County and
prescribe:
         (a)   Routes;
         (b)   Modes of transportation; and
         (c)   Evacuation destinations.
      (7)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may make provision for
availability and use of temporary emergency housing, which housing need not
necessarily comply with any minimum housing standards, building or zoning
regulations and the like, which would govern the use and location of premises
for housing puiposes during normal times;
      (8)   Except in accordance with §
36.38(B), the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners shall not suspend any
provisions of ordinances or procedures, which are mandated by statute;
      (9)   In the event of a disaster emergency that has been declared by the
Governor, the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners, in accordance with I.C.
10-14-3-17(j)(5), may waive any procedures or requirements of statute, or of
Dearborn County ordinances reflecting statutory requirements and mandates,
pertaining to:
         (a)   The performance of public works;
         (b)   The entering into contracts;
         (c)   The incurring of obligations;
         (d)   The employment of permanent and temporary workers;
         (e)   The utilization of volunteer workers;
         (f)   The rental of equipment;
         (g)   The purchase and distribution of supplies, materials and
facilities; and
         (h)   The appropriation and expenditure of public funds;
      (10)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may assign any special
emergency duties and functions to Dearborn County:
         (a)   Offices;
         (b)   Departments; and
         (c)   Agencies;
      (11)   Any unexpended and unencumbered monies budgeted and appropriated
but not otherwise dedicated by law to different purposes may, within the scope
of each major budge and appropriation category (major object classification),
be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying out the special emergency
duties and functions;
      (12)   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22, the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners may make, amend, and rescind the orders, rules and regulations as
may be necessary for emergency management purposes and to supplement the
carrying out of the provisions of this chapter. The orders, rules and
regulations:
         (a)   Cannot be inconsistent with any orders, rules or regulations
promulgated by the Governor or by any state agency exercising a power delegated
to it by the Governor;
         (b)   Cannot be inconsistent with Dearborn County’s Emergency
Management Program or Emergency Plan;
         (c)   Shall have full force and effect of law when filed in the office
of the Dearborn County Clerk; and/or
         (d)   Are enforceable by any local or state law enforcing authority in
accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-24;
      (13)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may, in accordance with
the Emergency Plan, request the State or the United States or their agencies
and political subdivisions to send aid (including financial assistance) if the
situation is beyond the control of the regular and emergency county forces and
resources.
   (C)   All actions taken by the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners under
this section shall be:
      (1)   Adopted by ordinance or resolution pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-22; and
      (2)   Consistent with, and subordinate to, any actions, orders or
regulations made by the Governor or a state agency implementing the State
Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.39 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF INCORPORATED AND UNINCORPORATED AREAS—DUTIES
DURING EMERGENCY.
   During a declared disaster emergency, all officers and employees of
incorporated and unincorporated areas of Dearborn County shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with and give active support to the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners and the Dearborn County Emergency Management Director; and
   (B)   Comply with all orders, rules and regulations issued pursuant to this
chapter by the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners or the Dearborn County
Emergency Management Director.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.40 PENALTIES; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter applies it shall be unlawful and a penal
ordinance violation for any person to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder and/or delay the Dearborn County Board
of Commissioners, the Dearborn County Emergency Management Director,
participating emergency services, authorized emergency management volunteers
and/or other authorities from implementing, carrying out and/or enforcing the
Emergency Plan;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by, and/or comply with any emergency
management duties, orders, regulations and/or procedures as made applicable to
that person by the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the Dearborn
County Department of Emergency Management or to otherwise falsely identify or
purport to be a Dearborn County emergency management authority.
   (B)   Any person who commits an offense as described above shall be liable
for a fine of $2,500; the fine to be subject, however, to the discretion of the
court of jurisdiction.
   (C)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the state or any of its
political subdivisions is hereby empowered to issue and serve a civil citation
against any person found to be committing an offense described above.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.41 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   During an emergency management test or declared disaster emergency, Dearborn
County, Dearborn County’s assigned personnel, participating emergency services,
and rostered emergency management volunteers shall be immune from liability to
the full extent provided by I.C. 10-14-3 and any other applicable law.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.42 COMPENSATION FOR PROPERTY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-31, compensation for property shall be paid only if
the property was commandeered or otherwise used in coping with a disaster
emergency and its use or destruction was ordered by the Governor or a member of
the disaster emergency forces of the state. Any person claiming compensation
for the use, damage, loss, or destruction of such property shall make a claim
for it. This claim shall be filed and adjudicated as provided in I.C. 32-24.
However, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-31(e), this section does not apply to or
authorize compensation for the destruction or damaging of standing timber or
other property in order to provide a fire break or to the release of waters or
the breach of impoundments in order to reduce pressure or other danger from
actual or threatened flood.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
EMERGENCY TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS
§ 36.55 EMERGENCY TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The President of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners may
declare one of four declaration levels of emergency as set out in division (B)
below.
   (B)   There shall be four classifications to control roadway use:
      (1)   WHITE – Caution. A condition may develop that limits or hinders
travel in isolated areas. No travel restrictions have been placed in effect by
Dearborn County officials, but citizens should be alert to changing conditions.
      (2)   YELLOW – Advisory. Routine travel or activities may be restricted
in areas because of a hazardous situation. Citizens should use caution or avoid
these areas. Schools and businesses may being to implement their emergency
action plans.
      (3)   ORANGE – Watch. Conditions are threatening to the safety of the
public. Only essential travel is permitted. Travel on public roadways within
Dearborn County is prohibited unless it is necessary to get to and from work,
for medical emergencies or home necessities. Emergency action plans have been
or should now be implemented by businesses, schools, government agencies and
other organizations. Any violation of this order may be subject to a $25 fine.
      (4)   RED – Warning. All public roadways within Dearborn County are
closed to non-emergency personnel. Citizens are directed to refrain from all
travel, comply with necessary emergency measures, cooperate with public
officials and disaster services forces in executing emergency operations plans,
and comply with the directions of properly identified officers. Further and
more specific restrictions may be included in the disaster declaration. Any
violation of this order may be subject to a $50 fine.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
§ 36.56 EXEMPTIONS.
   This section does not restrict persons from traveling on highways within
Dearborn County during the local emergency who are traveling to:
   (A)   Maintain a safe rail system;
   (B)   Restore utility service; or
   (C)   Provide any other emergency service.
(BC Ord. 2013-002, passed 1-15-13)
CHAPTER 37: COUNTY POLICY
Section
   
37.01   Inmate medical services payments
   
37.02   Authorization of participation in organizations
   
37.03   Fixed assets policy
   
37.04   Uniform costs of certifying, copying or facsimile transmission of
documents
   
37.05   Fees for real property endorsements
   
37.06   Enhanced emergency telephone fee
   
37.07   Recycling procurement policy
   
37.08   Improper obligation of public funds
   
37.09   Capital asset policy
   
37.10   Drug free workplace statement policy
   
37.11   Procedures for appeal of denial or reduction of poor relief
   
37.12   Computer use policy
   
37.13   Departmental credit cards
   
37.14   Service fee for tax sales to collect delinquent taxes and/or special
assessments
   
37.15   Investment of public funds
   
37.16   Investment policy
   
37.17   Investigation of storm water nuisance
   
37.18   Obstruction of drain or natural surface of watercourse
   
37.19   Fee for public purchase of complete county tax list
   
37.20   Personnel policies handbook
   
37.21   Fee for dishonored checks
   
37.22   Dearborn County website
   
37.23   Disposal of surplus vehicles and other county owned property
   
37.24   Fee for plat books
   
37.25   Smoking on county property and in county owned vehicles
   
37.26   Grant application procedures
   
37.27   Disposition of property seized by the Dearborn County Sheriff’s
Department
   
37.28   [Reserved]
   
37.29   Bulk form copies
   
37.30   Nondiscrimination policy
   
37.31   Execution of contracts with INDOT
Cross-reference:
   Internal control standards, see §
10.17
   Materiality threshold, see §
10.18
§ 37.01 INMATE MEDICAL SERVICES PAYMENTS.
   (A)   A person confined to the County Jail, except as provided in divisions
(B) and (C) below, shall be
required to make a co-payment for each provision of any of the following
services:
      (1)   Doctor: $15;
      (2)   Nurse: $10;
      (3)   Mental health: $15;
      (4)   Prescription: $8;
      (5)   Monthly refill - per script: $8; or
      (6)   Dental: $15 if referred by doctor.
   (B)   Division (A) above does not apply to a person confined in the county
jail who:
      (1)   Maintains a policy of insurance from a private company covering:
         (a)   Medical care;
         (b)   Dental care;
         (c)   Eye care; or
         (d)   Any other health care related service; provided said inmate
provides complete and accurate information to allow the health care provider to
file a claim for services rendered;
      (2)   Is willing to pay for the person's own medical care;
      (3)   Is committed to the Indiana Department of Corrections; or
      (4)   Is housed at the County Jail pursuant to contract entered into with
the U.S. Marshall's Service.
   (C)   A person confined at the County Jail is not required to make co-
payment if:
      (1)   The inmate does not have funds in the inmate's commissary account
or trust account at the time the service is provided and the inmate does not
have funds in the inmate's commissary or trust account within 30 days after the
medical service is provided;
      (2)   The service is provided in an emergency;
      (3)   The service is provided as a result of an injury received at the
county jail; or
      (4)   The service is provided at the request of the Sheriff.
   (D)   Only the original filling of a specific prescription shall be charged
a co-payment for this medical service. All refills ordered when the original
prescription was written shall constitute one service.
   (E)   If the original call for medical services is initiated by the Sheriff,
follow-up care for the same illness or injury will not require a co-payment if
follow-up service is rendered within 30 days of the original medical service.
   (F)   Inmates at the Dearborn County Jail will never be refused medical
treatment because of the inability to pay. The transaction shall be carried on
the books for a 60-day period, an adjustment entry shall be made to negate the
medical billing transaction within the 60-day period. If the inmate receives
money, the outstanding co-payment shall be deducted prior to any commissary
order being processed Co-payments for medical services shall be deducted prior
to any monies being released to the inmate for bail or any other purpose.
   (G)   Monies collected shall be deposited into the County General Fund.
(BC Ord. 6-1994, passed 10-17-94; Am. BC Ord. 2011-015, passed 11- 15-11; Am.
CC Ord. 2014-001, passed 2-18-14)
§ 37.02 AUTHORIZATION OF PARTICIPATION IN ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to authorize participation in
certain organizations that provide information and services that are necessary
for operation of the county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners is authorized to budget, and the County
Council is authorized to appropriate funds from the General Fund or from other
funds to provide membership for the county and for the elected and appointed
officials and members of the county's boards, council, departments or agencies
in local, regional, state and national associations of a civic, education or
governmental nature, which have as their purpose the betterment and improvement
of county government operations.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners is further authorized to budget and the
County Council is further authorized to appropriate funds to pay the expenses
of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and functions of
organizations to which the county belongs.
(BC Ord. passed - - )
§ 37.03 FIXED ASSETS POLICY.
   (A)   A record shall be maintained by the County Auditor of all fixed assets
currently owned or subsequently purchased by any office or department of county
government of a value of $100 or more.
   (B)   The record shall include a listing and inventory of each of the fixed
assets whether real or personal property and a specific item number shall be
assigned to each of the assets.
   (C)   Each office or department of county government shall cooperate with
the County Auditor and provide all necessary information to the County Auditor
in order to maintain said records for audit purposes. Each office or department
of county government shall also be responsible for maintaining a record of all
fixed assets in possession of their office.
   (D)   The Auditor shall be notified of the sale or disposal of fixed assets
so that these items may be removed from the inventory.
(BC Ord. 15-1997, passed 8-18-97)
§ 37.04 UNIFORM COSTS OF CERTIFYING, COPYING OR FACSIMILE TRANSMISSION OF
DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise set forth under state law, the costs of providing the
following services shall be uniformly set for all offices and departments of
the Dearborn County Government:
      (1)   Certification of documents: $0.50.
      (2)   Copying: $0.50 per page.
      (3)   Facsimile transmission: $0.50 per page.
   (B)   The County Recorder shall not charge recording and/or copying fees to
the County Transportation Department, the County Commissioners or the County
Plan Commission.
   (C)   The County Highway Department shall collect the following fees for
copying services:
      (1)   8-1/2 x 11 sheets: $0.05 per page;
      (2)   18 x 24 sheets: $2.00 per page;
      (3)   26 x 36 sheets: $4.00 per page.
(BC Ord. 21-1997, passed 12-15-97; Am. CC Ord. 2-2003, passed 7-22-03; Am. CC
Ord. 2-2005, passed 5-24-05; Am. BC Ord. 2005-9, passed 6-21-05)
§ 37.05 FEES FOR REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENTS.
   The County Auditor shall collect a fee of $5 for each legal description of
each parcel contained in the deed for which the Auditor makes a real property
endorsement. Such fee shall be in addition to any fee provided by law and shall
be placed in a dedicated fund for use in maintaining plat books.
(BC Ord. 2001-15, passed 11-5-01; Am. BC Ord. 2011-6, passed 5-17-11)
§ 37.06 ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE FEE.
   The County Council hereby establishes an enhanced emergency telephone system
for a monthly fee of $2.43 per telephone access line or other exchange access
facility.
(CC Ord. 2001-1, passed 4-24-01; Am. CC Ord. 1-2009, passed 8-20-09)
§ 37.07 RECYCLING PROCUREMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners endorses and supports a procurement
policy that promotes recycled-content products, whenever possible, on a case-
by-case basis. Outside contractors bidding to provide products or services to
the county, including printing services, must demonstrate that they will comply
with specifications that require the use of recycled products, reusable
products or products designed to be recycled, to the maximum extent
practicable, subject to an alternative showing that either the performance of
the product will be jeopardized, or the product will negatively impact health,
safety or operational efficiency.
   (B)   When recycled products are used, reasonable efforts shall be
undertaken to label the products to indicate that they contain recycled
materials. County departments and agencies shall use for their masthead
stationery and envelopes that contain recycled materials. Other recycled
products used by the county shall also indicate that they contain recycled
material to the greatest extent practicable.
   (C)   A 15% price preference may be given to recycled products, reusable
products offered as alternatives to disposable products, and products designed
to be recycled, where they are offered as alternatives to non-recyclable
products. The preference percentage shall be based on the lowest bid or price
quoted by the supplier or suppliers offering non-recycled products.
   (D)   The county will cooperate, to the greatest extent feasible, with
neighboring city and county governments in an effort to develop a
comprehensive, consistent and effective procurement effort intended to
stimulate the market for recycled products, reusable products and products
designed to be recycled.
   (E)   All related county departments and agencies shall work cooperatively
to further the purpose of this section. The county economic development process
shall incorporate the goal of stimulating the market for recycled material.
(BC Res. 6-2003, passed 10-20-03; Am. BC Res. 9-2008, passed 10-7-08)
§ 37.08 IMPROPER OBLIGATION OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   Any elected or appointed official of the county who obligates the county to
the expenditure of public funds or monies in violation of the budgetary process
established by Indiana law and the County Council shall be personally
responsible for satisfying said obligation or expenditure.
(CC Ord. 3-2003, passed 9-9-03)
§ 37.09 CAPITAL ASSET POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. To establish policy and procedures for the implementation of
management controls regarding the acquisition, inventory, transfer and
disposition of assets for Dearborn County, Indiana (hereinafter referred to as
"Dearborn County" or "county").
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   Dearborn County is implementing a Capital Asset Policy effective
July 2, 2004. This policy is being implemented to meet the requirements of the
new accounting reporting model, Governmental Accounting Standards Board
Statement (GASB) 34. The new reporting model will require the county to
depreciate capital assets. The new policy will be referred to as the Dearborn
County Capital Asset Policy (DCCAP). Historically, Dearborn County has
accounted for expenditures utilizing the cash accounting method, where the
costs of assets are recorded as expenditures the same year in which the costs
are paid. This method, although simple, does not reflect the true value of the
investments that are made with county dollars. Once the expenditures are made
those dollars transform into real assets. Assets, particularly infrastructure
assets like roads, bridges, water treatment plants, landfills, sewers, and the
like, become part of the intrinsic value of Dearborn County. The county is more
than the builder it is the steward of the investment. DCCAP is aimed at
accounting for not only the costs incurred, but moreover the value the assets
held DCCAP is an excellent tool for managers to identity and validate the work
that must be done to maintain these infrastructure assets and their associated
budgets as well.
      (2)   Dearborn County is establishing the comprehensive Capital Assets
Management system in order to provide a higher degree of control over its
considerable investment in, capital assets, and to able to demonstrate
accountability to its various constituencies: citizens, rate-payers, oversight
bodies and regulators.
      (3)   The purpose of establishing a formalized Assets Management System
(AMS) is to:
         (a)   Safeguard the investments of the citizens of Dearborn County;
         (b)   Fix responsibility for the custody of equipment;
         (c)   Provide a basis for formulating capital asset acquisition,
maintenance and retirement policies;
         (d)   Provide data for financial reporting; and
         (e)   Demonstrate appropriate stewardship responsibility for public
assets.
      (4)   This Capital Assets Policy is limited to outlining the broad
classifications of property, the definitions of assets, methods of creating
asset data, acquisitions, transfers, and retirements of county-owned property
for which the county is fiscal agent. It does not include ongoing data,
processing, programming requirements, or computer operations procedures.
      (5)   The historical reporting requirement of GASB 34 requires the county
to report items put into use from 1980 forward, and gives the county the option
to report items put into use prior to 1980. The county will not report such
items that were put into use prior to 1980.
      (6)   The Asset Manager for Dearborn County can be reached at ________
Dearborn County Administration Building.
   (C)   Assets defined.
      (1)   A fixed asset is a long-lived tangible asset obtained or
controlled, as a result of past transaction, events, or circumstances. Fixed
assets are broken into two categories:
         (a)   Capitalized Assets;
         (b)   Inventoried Assets.
      (2)   Throughout this policy, the term ASSET MANAGEMENT SYSTEM used to
track our assets will be referred to as the AMS.
      CAPITALIZED ASSETS. A CAPITALIZED ASSET is property, such as land, land
improvements, including monuments, buildings, building improvements,
construction in progress, machinery and equipment and infrastructure with an
initial cost of at least $20,000, and a useful life of more than year.
CAPITALIZED ASSETS are acquired for use in normal operations and are not for
resale. These assets are long-term in nature and may be subject to
depreciation, depending on which fund was used to record the asset. Only assets
purchased for $20,000 and over are capitalized (acquisitions by lease-purchase
agreements and donated items). All capital assets meeting this criterion shall
be reported and depreciated in the government-wide financial statements.
      INVENTORIED ASSETS.  INVENTORIED ASSETS are those items valued at $500
through $19,999.99 and recorded inventory purposes only. These items are not
capitalized and are not subject to depreciation. This allows management to keep
items on inventory, yet have a consistent capitalization limit for the annual
financial report. INVENTORIED ASSETS will be maintained on the AMS, if their
initial cost is at least $500 but not more than $19,999.99 with the following
exceptions:
         (a)   Department Heads may choose to keep inventory on items that cost
under $500, however, this inventory will not be part of the AMS or part of the
annual report. If for some reason the Department Head feels certain items that
cost under $500 should be inventoried and included in the AMS, the Department
Head must receive approval from the AMS manager.
         (b)   An inventory shall be kept of all computers, printers and all
other computer related items regardless of cost computers, printers, and the
like with a cost of $20,000 or greater will be capitalized, and those that cost
less than $20,000 will be classified as non-capitalized items in the AMS.
         (c)   An inventory shall be kept on all weapons regardless of cost.
Weapons with a cost of $20,000 or greater will be capitalized.
         (d)   An inventory shall be kept on all vehicles with a license plate
regardless of cost. Vehicles with a cost of $20,000 or greater will be
capitalized.
Note: Purchases made using grant funds must comply with grant requirements or
the above procedures, whichever are the most restrictive.
      (3)   Level of control: The Asset Manager will maintain the AMS. Each
department needs to maintain assets based on location so that accurate
inventory reports can be printed.
      (4)   Threshold levels for capital assets: The following schedule will be
followed for the different types of capital assets:
Asset Inventory/ Tracking Threshold Capitalize Threshold
Asset                    Inventory/ Tracking Threshold Capitalize Threshold
Land                     equal to or greater than $1   $20,000
Construction in Progress equal to or greater than $1   $20,000
Buildings                equal to or greater than $1   $20,000
Vehicle                  equal to or greater than $1   $20,000
Computers                equal to or greater than $1   $20,000
Weapons                  equal to or greater than $1   $20,000
Building Improvements    equal to or greater than $500 $20,000
Machinery and Equipment  equal to or greater than $500 $20,000
Land Improvements        equal to or greater than $500 $20,000
 
   (D)   Valuation of capital assets.
      (1)   All assets shall be recorded at historical cost or estimated
historical costs. If purchasing a new asset, the cost is the amount paid for
the asset, including tax and freight. The amount recorded includes the total
purchase price, less any discounts. It also includes any payment required to
place the asset in its intended state of operation, such as labor to install.
If it is a donated asset, cost is defined as the fair market value on the date
donated. The fair market value is the estimated amount of the asset for which
it would be exchanged between knowledgeable and willing buyers and sellers,
when neither is forced into the exchange.
      (2)   Capital assets should be recorded at actual cost. Normally the cost
recorded is the purchase price or construction costs of the asset, but also
included is any other reasonable and necessary costs incurred to place the
asset in its intended location and intended use. Such costs could include the
following:
         (a)   Legal and title fees, closing costs;
         (b)   Appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying fees;
         (c)   Damage payments;
         (d)   Land preparation costs, demolition costs;
         (e)   Architect, engineering and accounting fees;
         (f)   Insurance premiums during construction;
         (g)   Transportation charges;
         (h)   Interest costs during construction on enterprise funds only.
   (E)   Asset definition by major category. It is important to the maintenance
of accurate records that each asset category (land, building, equipment,
infrastructure, and the like) be precisely defined and that all persons
responsible for records maintenance be fully aware of the categorization
system. This section further clarifies the asset definitions by major category.
      (1)   Land.
         (a)   LAND is defined as specified land, lots, parcels or acreage
including rights-of-way, owned by the Board of Commissioners of the County of
Dearborn, its various departments, boards or authorities, regardless of the
method or date of acquisition. Easements will not be include, as the county
does not own or maintain them, but an interest in land owned by another (such
as property owner) that entitles its holder to a specific limited use. All land
is entered on the AMS, regardless of cost, however, it is not depreciated. Land
is entered to the AMS, when the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County takes
ownership of the property.
         (b)   Purchased land should be entered at its cost. Cost includes its
purchase price plus any other charges necessary to purchase the land. Other
charges include costs such as site preparation, expenditures, attorney fees,
deed stamps, appraisals, surveys, and legal claims attributable to the land
acquisition. If land and building are acquired as a single parcel, cost should
be allocated between land and building, and recorded in the appropriate
accounts.
         (c)   Donated land should be recorded at the appraised market value at
the time of donation.
      (2)   Land improvements. Examples of county assets in this category are
walks, parking areas and drives, fencing, retaining walls, fountains, wells,
storm sewers, planters, underground sprinkler, systems, and items.
      (3)   Buildings. All structures designed and erected to house equipment,
services, or functions are included. This includes systems, services, and
fixtures within the buildings, and attachments such as porches, stairs, fire
escapes, canopies, areaways, lighting fixtures, flagpoles, and all other such
units that serve the building.
         (a)   Guidelines.
            1.   Buildings valued at $20,000 or greater are capitalized. Those
purchased for $500 to $19,999.99 are recorded on the AMS for inventory purposes
only. They are not capitalized.
            2.   Buildings are recorded at the purchase price or construction
cost. Cost should include all charges applicable to the building such as
purchase price, contract price or job order costs and any other expenditures
necessary to put a building or structure into its intended state of operation.
Other expenditures may include the following: professional fees (broker's or
architect's fees), damage claims, cost of fixtures, insurance premiums or
interest on construction (for proprietary funds only) and related costs
incurred during the period of construction, Fixtures permanently attached to
the building, such as heating and ventilation systems, should be included in
the cost of the building.
            3.   Donated buildings should be recorded at the appraised fair
market value at the time the building was donated.
            4.   If using in-house resources such as labor, materials to
construct, renovate or add on to the building, these costs are to be included
in the cost of the asset. Those departments that perform in-house services,
such as general building construction (electrical, plumbing, carpentry, and the
like), grading/paving (chip/seal, asphalt resurfacing, and the like), or other
improvements, shall keep cost records of this work. These costs will be
capitalized and recorded, as if outside sources were used.
            5.   If an addition to a building is constructed, its cost is added
to the AMS as a separate asset, when such costs meet the inventory/
capitalization threshold.
            6.   The addition, meeting the inventory/capitalization threshold,
should receive its own asset number.
            7.   Cabinets, shelving, bookcases, and similar items, added
subsequent to original construction, which are custom made for a specific place
and not adaptable elsewhere, will be capitalized.
            8.   Exceptions to the minimum capitalization limit and/or minimum
inventory limit will require written approval by the Asset Manager.
            9.   Maintenance expenses are incurred to keep assets in normal
operating condition and to help maintain the original use of the building.
Maintenance expenses do not extend the life of the building beyond the expected
useful life at acquisition. Maintenance costs are exspensed and not
capitalized.
            10.   Buildings need not be tagged. The asset number is still
recorded in the system, but not physically attached to the asset. The legal
description, including address and plat location found in the County Register
of Deeds records, must be recorded in the asset record to identify it as being
county property.
            11.   Rehabilitation costs are incurred to restore or improve
buildings or other capitalized assets acquired in a run down condition.
Property to be rehabilitated is usually purchased at a discounted price. The
reason for the lower price is that considerable money will need to be spent to
rehabilitate the asset before it can be placed into service. The rehabilitation
costs incurred become part of the cost of the asset and are capitalized
according to the same criteria as other capitalized assets. Normally, the costs
take place over an extended period. Care must be taken to distinguish between
maintenance and rehabilitation during this period.
         (b)   Procedures.
            1.   The Auditor's Office will maintain records for the buildings
that have been completed and those that are still under construction. At fiscal
year end, the Auditor's Office will add completed buildings to the AMS and
adjust the Construction in Progress account for the cost of buildings still
under construction.
            2.   The Auditor's Office and Purchasing Department must be
notified by each county department of the purchase, transfer to or from, or
disposition of any land, buildings or equipment. This process is necessary in
order to maintain accurate asset information for financial statement purposes.
            3.   Buildings and or equipment purchased or funded through a
holding corporation will be added to the AMS, after being accepted by the Board
of Commissioner's of Dearborn County.
         (c)   Renovations/additions and improvements/betterments.
            1.   Renovations/additions increase the physical size or operating
capabilities of an asset through expansion or extension. They do not involve
replacements.
            2.   Improvements/betterments extend the useful life of an existing
asset, increase the normal rate of output, and lower an asset's operating cost
or increase efficiency.
            3.   Renovations/additions and improvement/betterments costs are
different from maintenance. Maintenance costs are incurred to keep the asset in
normal operating condition.
            4.   Two criteria must be met in determining whether or not a
renovation or improvement costs should be capitalized:
               a.   The first criterion is whether the expenditure
significantly extends the useful life of the original asset.
               b.   The second is whether the expenditure meets the $20,000
capitalization threshold established for all assets.
            5.   If both criteria are met, the expenditure must be capitalized.
Expenditures not meeting both of these criteria should be classified as a
maintenance expense. Care must be taken when distinguishing between
maintenance, renovation, and improvement costs. Assets valued below $20,000 are
exspensed; they are not capitalized or depreciated.
            6.   If part of an asset is removed during a renovation or
improvement, the cost of the removed part must also be removed from the AMS.
               a.   Use all of the available information in determining the
original cost of the part being removed.
               b.   The removal costs associated with the renovation should be
exspensed.
         (d)   Maintenance.
            1.   Maintenance expenses:
               a.   Are incurred to keep assets in normal operating condition.
               b.   Are incurred to help maintain the original intended use of
the asset.
               c.   Do not extend the life of the asset beyond the expected
useful life at acquisition;
               d.   Are incurred to keep the asset operational throughout its
useful life.
            2.   Maintenance costs are exspensed and not capitalized.
      (4)   Infrastructure.
         (a)   Infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets that
normally can be preserved for significant greater number of years than most
capital assets and that are normally stationary in nature. Examples include
roads, bridges, culverts, streetlights, traffic signals, drainage systems, and
water systems. Infrastructure assets do not include buildings, drives, parking
lots or any office examples given above that are incidental to property or
access to the property above.
         (b)   Generally, infrastructure will not be depreciated. County elects
a modified approach to track the general condition of such items of
infrastructure. Maintenance/repairs will be considered as necessary to maintain
the existing asset, and therefore not capitalized. For example, patching,
resurfacing, snow removal, and the like, are considered maintenance activities
and will be exspensed. Also, any normal department operating activities such as
feasibility studies, a engineering and design, will be exspensed and not
capitalized as an element of the asset.
      (5)   Equipment. Equipment includes all other types of physical property
within the scope of the ASM not previously classified. Included within this
category are office mechanical equipment, office furniture, appliances,
furnishings, machinery items, maintenance equipment, communication equipment,
police, fire, sanitation and park department equipment, laboratory equipment,
vehicles, road equipment, aircraft, emergency equipment, earth moving
equipment, text equipment, civil defense equipment, and data processing
equipment. All supplies are excluded.
   (F)   Depreciation method.
      (1)   The county will be depreciating capital assets by using the
straight-line method. There will be no salvage value. Depreciation will be
calculated at year-end. Land is not depreciated. Infrastructure will not be
depreciated but will be maintained at existing quality levels as prevail at-the
time of this policy implementation, or better, at the discretion of the Board
of Commissioners.
      (2)   Straight-line depreciation: All Assets in the AMS will be
depreciated using the straight-line method of depreciation. A gain or loss on
disposal will be recorded. Following is a list of the most common useful lives:
Name Years
Name                                                               Years
Vehicles                                                           5 years
Office Equipment                                                   5 years
Heavy Equipment                                                    10 years
Buildings                                                          40-60 years
Building Components                                                20 years
(HVAC systems, roofing)
Leasehold Improvements                                             10 years
Land Improvements-structure (parking lots, athletic courts and the 25 years
like)
Land Improvements-ground work (landscaping, fencing)               25 years
Outdoor Equipment-(playground equipment, radio towers)             25 year
Grounds Equipment-(mowers, tractors, attachments)                  5 years
Mains                                                              65 years
Pump Stations                                                      45 years
Structure & Improvements                                           45 years
Pump Equipment                                                     20 years
Treatment Equipment                                                25 years
Furniture & Equipment                                              12 years
Other Equipment                                                    12 years
Transportation Equipment (total stations, levels, nuclear density, 6 years
and the like)
Shop & Lab Equipment                                               15 years
Computer Equipment                                                 5 years
Communication Equipment                                            7 years
      (3)   For any item not listed above, contact the Asset Manager to
determine the service lift.
   (G)   Tagging assets.
      (1)   Generally all assets are tagged. All capitalized and inventoried
assets are assigned a number in the AMS, but not all assets are tagged. For
example, land is recorded but if not tagged items not needing a tag are:
         (a)   Buildings (record legal description in asset record);
         (b)   Land (record legal description in asset record);
         (c)   Firearms (record serial number in asset record);
         (d)   And certain other items as determined by the Purchasing
Department.
      (2)   Equipment identification and tags: The Purchasing Department will
forward the asset identification tags to the respective departments along with
the pending asset form. Upon receipt of these tags, the Department Head or
designee will have them attached to the identified equipment.
      (3)   It will be the responsibility of each department to follow up to
ensure that equipment has been assigned to each asset and that it is properly
tagged, if required.
   (H)   Physical inventory.
      (1)   A physical inventory of capitalized assets is taken to verify that
capitalized assets physically located in the department are recorded in the
asset accounts. At the same time a physical inventory of inventoried items is
taken by all locations to ensure these items have been recorded properly.
Inventories will be taken at the direction of the Board of Commissioner but at
least once a year.
      (2)   The Asset Manager will furnish each department with an updated
Asset Report for the taking of a physical inventory. If possible, the inventory
should not be taken or checked by a person who has custodial responsibility for
the assets, nor has responsibility for receiving, checking in, tagging or
recording the assets.
      (3)   Exceptions to or changes to a physical inventory will be noted on
the Asset Report and communicated to the Asset Manager by the Department Head,
the Department Asset Officer in their designee. Examples would include:
         (a)   Assets listed on report not found at the location;
         (b)   Assets at the location not listed on the report;
         (c)   Missing or incorrect serial number(s);
         (d)   Missing or incorrect description(s).
   (I)   Responsibilities of department heads. It is the responsibility of the
Department Head to act as or designate a steward for each piece of property for
which he or she is responsible. The steward will become the focal point for
questions regarding availability, condition, and usage of the asset, as well as
the contact during the physical inventory process.
(Ord. 5-2004, passed 7-22-04)
§ 37.10 DRUG FREE WORKPLACE STATEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Overview. Whereas, Dearborn County, Indiana makes a commitment to
provide employees a safe working environment, to ensure that employees,
equipment, and operating practices comply with health and safety standards, and
to maintain public confidence in the county and its employees. Since Dearborn
County, Indiana values each employee, the county offers employees assistance in
dealing with alcohol and drug abuse problems.
   (B)   (1)   Policy. Whereas, Dearborn County, Indiana requires all employees
to report for work in a condition that allows them to perform their duties in a
safe and efficient manner. Employees will not be permitted to work under the
influence of alcohol or with prohibited drugs in their systems thereby
affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the county
at any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state, or local
laws or to better serve the needs of the county.
   (C)   (1)   Prohibited drugs. Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal
substances, including controlled substances as defined in the Controlled
Substance Act (21 U.S.C. 8120) and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 CFR
1308.11-1308.15) and prescription controlled substances which have not been
prescribed by a licensed physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes
for the employee. Abuse of prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be
treated as a substance abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on county premises (including
vehicles used for county business). These include, but are not limited to,
marijuana, cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the Indiana State Police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   (1)   Alcohol. The use of alcohol on the job or on county premises is
prohibited, unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized
official event held off county premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used
for county business is strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on county
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for county business is never
authorized.
   (E)   (1)   Reporting violations. Employees must, as a condition of
employment, abide by the terms of this section and report any conviction to
their elected official/department head within 24 hours under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off county premises when conducting
county business and the elected official/department head shall immediately
notify the Human Resources Department. The county is required to notify the
appropriate government agencies within ten days after receiving notice from
either the employee or from another source. These requirements are mandated by
the Drug Free Workplace Act of 1988.
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the county will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including, but not limited to, any adverse
effect the employee's actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the county's reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Dearborn County Auditor's Office.
   (F)   (1)   Employee rehabilitation. Health maintenance is primarily a
personal responsibility and it is the individual's responsibility to correct
unsatisfactory job performance or behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug
abuse. In an effort to assist employees, the county will provide various means
for employees and their family members to remain aware of the dangers of
substance abuse in the workplace and to overcome drug and alcohol related
problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal alcohol or drug problem are encouraged to
volunteer to participate in an approved rehabilitation program upon referral
from the Elected/Appointed Official's recommendation before work performance
becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other county policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a county investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline).
   (G)   (1)   Testing. Dearborn County, Indiana may ask employees to submit to
random alcohol or drug testing.
      (2)   Additionally, alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees
in the following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance and/or alcohol abuse;
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug and/or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
county; and/or
         (c)   When required by law.
      (3)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance and/or alcohol abuse, the
Elected/Appointed Official may recommend that the employee have a fitness for
duty examination by a physician designated by the county. The physician will
determine whether a fitness for duty examination is necessary and whether
alcohol and/or drug tests should be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the county. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their system will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the
Dearborn County Auditor's Office.
   (H)   Minimum standards. This section outlines the minimum Drug Free
Workplace standards for Dearborn County, Indiana. These standards may be
expanded upon by section 5.9 of the Dearborn County, Indiana Employee Handbook.
Employees should familiarize themselves with this section as well as section
5.9 of the Employee Handbook.
(BC Ord. 6-2004, passed 8-2-04; Am. BC Ord. 2019-017, passed 10- 15-19)
§ 37.11 PROCEDURES FOR APPEAL OF DENIAL OR REDUCTION OF POOR RELIEF.
   (A)   The Procedures for Appeal of Denial or Reduction in the amount of Poor
Relief pursuant to I.C. 12-20-15 et seq. are as follows.
   (B)   If an applicant for or recipient of township poor relief is not
satisfied with the decision of the township trustee as administrator of poor
relief, the applicant or recipient may appeal such decision to the Board of
Commissioners of Dearborn County.
   (C)   An applicant for poor relief must file the applicant's appeal not more
than 15 days from the date of issuance by the township trustee of adequate
written notice of the denial of poor relief assistance. An appeal must be made
in writing as required by the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County.
   (D)   The appellant has the right to:
      (1)   Appear at the hearing to present an oral or written statement and
any documents in opposition to the township trustee's decision; or
      (2)   Appear at the hearing and have applicant's chosen representative
present an oral or written statement and any documents in opposition to the
township trustee's decision;
   (E)   Failure to respond truthfully to questions in the hearing may result
in further legal action. Applicant may be represented by any person applicant
chooses. If applicant elects to present evidence in applicant's support or if
applicant is called to testify as to any allegations, applicant must answer all
questions truthfully. If it is proved in a subsequent hearing that applicant's
responses to questions were not truthful, such dishonesty may result in further
legal action. At the hearing, applicant may present any testimony, witnesses,
or documents which would support a reversal of the township trustee's decision.
Applicant may be represented by any person applicant chooses. Applicant shall
provide a list of witnesses to the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County no
later than four hours prior to the hearing. It is applicant's responsibility to
notify witnesses that their attendance is desired.
   (F)   The Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County may conduct a hearing on
the appeal sitting as hearing officer or may appoint a hearing officer from
among the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County, from among the employees
of the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County, or from qualified residents
of Dearborn County.
   (G)   Before the hearing, the appellant or the appellant's legal
representative shall have an opportunity to review the appellant's poor relief
file and any documents or evidence used by the township trustee to make the
determination under appeal.
   (H)   The order of the proceeding is as follows:
      (1)   An introductory statement by the hearing officer or representative
of the hearing officer;
      (2)   Appellant's presentation of evidence against the township trustee's
decision;
      (3)   The township trustee's presentation of evidence in support of the
township trustee's decision;
      (4)   The parties may cross examine witnesses and the Board of
Commissioners of Dearborn County and/or the hearing officer reserves the right
to ask questions as deemed necessary. This is an informal procedure and the
Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County and/or the hearing officer is not
bound to Indiana's Rules of Evidence or Indiana's Rules of Trial Procedure.
   (I)   The Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County may issue a subpoena
requiring an individual's attendance at the hearing or requiring the production
of documents at the hearing if so reasonably requested by the appellant or the
township trustee.
   (J)   In hearing an appeal, the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County
and/or a hearing officer shall:
      (1)   Review and consider any report or investigative documents the
trustee prepared before making the appealed decision; and
      (2)   Be governed by the township's poor relief standards for determining
eligibility to the extent that the standards comply with existing law for the
granting of poor relief. If no legally sufficient standards have been
established, the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County and/or the hearing
officer shall be guided by the circumstances in each case.
   (K)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County shall remand a
case to a trustee for further proceedings if:
         (a)   New evidence was presented by the applicant to the Board of
Commissioners of Dearborn County; and
         (b)   The Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County determines that
the new evidence presented would have made the individual eligible for
assistance.
      (2)   If a case is remanded to a trustee, the trustee shall issue a new
determination of eligibility not later that 72 hours after receiving the
written decision remanding the case, excluding weekends and holidays listed in
I.C. 1-1-9.
   (L)   The appellant must be present at a hearing conducted by the Board of
Commissioners of Dearborn County or a hearing officer. The township trustee, as
administrator of poor relief, or the trustee's representative, shall be
notified in writing of the hearing date and time, but the failure of the
township trustee or the trustee's representative to be present is not a cause
for postponement of the hearing unless the trustee requests and is granted a
continuance. A continuance requested by the township trustee does not reduce
the period required for a decision under division (M)(2).
   (M)   The Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County shall hold a hearing as
soon as possible after the filing of an appeal but not more than ten working
days after the appeal form or other notice of appeal is received in the office
of the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County. The Board of Commissioners of
Dearborn County shall issue a written decision that must:
      (1)   Appear in the official records of the Board of Commissioners of
Dearborn County;
      (2)   Be issued to the appellant and the township trustee not more than
five working days following the date of the hearing;
      (3)   State the legal and factual basis for the decision;
      (4)   Advise the appellant and the township trustee of the right to
judicial review and the period prescribed for requesting judicial review; and
      (5)   Inform the appellant of the availability of free counsel for the
indigent.
   (N)   The township trustee, as administrator of poor relief, shall carry out
a decision of the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County to sustain,
increase, grant, or otherwise modify poor relief only if the Board of
Commissioners of Dearborn County complies with the requirements for a written
decision under division (M) above.
   (O)   The township trustee or an applicant may appeal a decision of the
Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County to a circuit or superior court with
jurisdiction in the county. In hearing an appeal, the court shall be governed
by the township's poor relief standards for determining eligibility for
granting poor relief in the township. If legally sufficient standards have not
been established, the court shall be guided by the circumstances of the case.
   (P)   If the court sets aside a decision of the Board of Commissioners of
Dearborn County in favor of an applicant, the township trustee may recover the
amount of any assistance awarded as a result of the Board of Commissioners of
Dearborn County's decision.
(Ord. 10-2004, passed 11-8-04)
§ 37.12 COMPUTER USE POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to establish requirements for
the access and use of computer resources by all persons using or accessing
computer systems at Dearborn County. Dearborn County provides access to
computer communication and information resources as tools to help employees and
other authorized users to perform jobs faster, smarter, and, in a more
efficient manner. The facilities and infrastructure to provide computer
resources represent a considerable commitment of county resources. This policy
states Dearborn County's requirements for the appropriate and responsible use
of those resources.
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   This policy applies to all persons using computer resources via the
computer systems at Dearborn County.
      (2)   This policy applies to all computer resources used at Dearborn
County, regardless of ownership that are operated by Dearborn County, or have
access or interface with, or otherwise affect, computer resources operated by
Dearborn County. They include, but are not limited to, mainframe computers,
personal computers, and computers that access public and private networks
including the Internet, Extranet, and Intranet.
   (C)   Policy.
      (1)   Computer resources users shall conduct themselves honestly and
appropriately while using computer resources, and respect the copyrights,
software licensing rules, property rights, and privacy of others.
      (2)   The display of any kind of sexually explicit, threatening,
demeaning, harassing, offensive, or otherwise inappropriate image or document
on any Dearborn County computer system or electronic communication system is
inappropriate, unacceptable, and may be grounds for disciplinary action. In
addition, sexually explicit material may not be accessed, archived, stored,
distributed, edited, printed, or recorded using Dearborn County computing
resources. This provision does not apply to duly authorized authority acting
within their official capacity while conducting investigations and/or resolving
potential violations of this procedure.
      (3)   Anyone receiving any kind of sexually explicit, threatening,
demeaning, harassing, offensive, or otherwise inappropriate image or document
on any Dearborn County computer system or electronic communication system
should retain the document, correspondence, or file, and immediately notify a
supervisor/manager.
      (4)   If the Internet user is connected inadvertently to a site that
contains sexually explicit or offensive material, they shall disconnect from
that site immediately, regardless of whether that site had been previously
deemed acceptable by any screening or rating program.
      (5)   Dearborn County's computing resources shall not be used knowingly
to violate the laws and regulations of the United States or any other nation,
or the laws and regulations of any state, city, province, or other local
jurisdiction in any material way. Use of any these resources for illegal
activity may be grounds for immediate dismissal, and Dearborn County will
cooperate with any legitimate law enforcement activity relating to allegations
of such misuse of computer resources.
      (6)   Unauthorized reproduction or use of copyrighted or proprietary
software without proper authorization is an infringement, and willful copying
is unlawful and may be subject to disciplinary action. It is the computer
resources user's responsibility to be familiar with and comply with software
license agreements.
      (7)   Any computer software that is acquired other than through normal
procurement channels as defined under I.C. 5 must be registered with the County
Administrator's Office. Such software will be scanned for potential viruses and
reviewed to assure that Dearborn County is not assuming any liability,
financial or legal, before being certified for use. Software or files shall not
be downloaded via the computer resources into the county computer network
without the prior approval of the County Administrator. Any such files or
software may be used only in ways that are consistent with their licenses or
copyrights.
      (8)   The use of Internet chat rooms and similar real time discussion
groups, news groups, and message boards are not permissible unless directly
related to a job requirement. These activities shall be specifically approved
in writing by the computer resources user's manager/supervisor.
      (9)   Employees with Internet access may not use company Internet
facilities to download entertainment software or games, or to play games
against opponents over the Internet.
      (10)   Audio and video streaming downloading technologies (such as
listening to music or watching movies through the Internet) and use of news
groups with automatic update feature (such as PointCast) are not permissible
unless directly related to a job requirement. These Internet uses represent
significant data traffic, which can cause local network congestion and reduce
available bandwidth. These activities shall be specifically approved in writing
by the computer resources user's Manager. Investment activities (such as day
trading) are not permitted.
      (11)   Computers that use their own modems to create independent data
connections sidestep Dearborn County's network security mechanisms. An
individual computer's private connection to any outside computer can be used by
an attacker to compromise any company network to which that computer is
attached. The use of any computer for independent dial-up or leased-line
connection to any outside computer or network is not permitted unless directly
related to a job requirement. Any exceptions shall be specifically approved in
writing by the County Administrator.
      (12)   The user shall not erase, change, rename or make unusable anyone
else's computer files, programs, or disks (except for authorized Information
Technology members as designated by the Dearborn County Commissioners).
      (13)   The user shall not let other persons use his or her name, login,
password or files for any reason and the user shall not attempt to discover or
use another user's password or in any way access another person's email or
other files (except for authorized Information Technology members as designated
by the Dearborn County Commissioners).
      (14)   The user shall not intentionally or negligently damage the system,
damage information belonging to others, misuse system resources, or allow
others to misuse system software.
      (15)   The user shall not alter hardware setup of or software settings on
computers, networks, printers, or other associated equipment disks (except for
authorized Information Technology members designated by the Dearborn County
Commissioners).
   (D)   Management responsibilities.
      (1)   Appointed and Elected Officials shall ensure that 1) all personnel
in their department have been provided with a copy of this policy, 2) all
personnel have been given time to read the policy, 3) all question have been
addressed, and 4) the employees have signed the attached Signature Form.
      (2)   Appointed and Elected Officials along with the Board of
Commissioners shall ensure and review that all personnel in their department
adhere to this policy.
   (E)   Consequences. Failure to follow this policy could result in
disciplinary actions as defined in the Dearborn County Handbook and Personnel
Manual.
   (F)   Signature form.
I certify that I have read and understand the Dearborn County Computer Use
Policy. Signing this form indicates my agreement to comply with all conditions
of this policy. I understand that noncompliance may result in disciplinary
action as defined in the Dearborn County Handbook and Personnel Manual.
__________________________________________
Employee Name - Printed
__________________________________________
Employee Signature         Date
(BC Res. 1-2004, passed 4-5-04)
§ 37.13 DEPARTMENTAL CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   Issuance and use of departmental credit and debit cards shall be
handled by an official or designated employee in each county department, board,
or office holder.
   (B)   Each county department, board or office holder shall designate an
employee or official to handle the credit and debit cards.
   (C)   Credit and debit cards shall only be used for the purchase of goods
and services directly related to official county business.
   (D)   Credit and debit cards shall be returned to the custody of the
designated employee upon completion of its intended use.
   (E)   The designated employee or official shall maintain an accounting
system or log, which shall include the names of individuals requesting usage of
the credit and debit cards, their position, estimated amounts to be charged,
fund and account numbers to be charged, and the date the card was requested and
returned.
   (F)   Credit and debit cards shall not be used to bypass the accounting
system. All accounting systems maintained by the designated employee or
official within each department or board will have such detail as necessary to
provide the Auditor with the means to encumber or track appropriations in order
to provide the Dearborn County Commissioners and Dearborn County Council with
timely and accurate accounting information and monitoring of the accounting
system.
   (G)   Payment shall not be made only on the basis of a statement or credit/
debit card slip. Procedures for payments shall be no different than for any
other claim, Supporting documents, including paid bills and receipts, shall be
made available to the designated employee or official. Any interest or penalty
incurred due to late filing or furnishing of supporting documents shall be the
responsibility of the individual who requested the credit and debit cards for
use.
   (H)   Each individual department head shall be authorized to pay an annual
fee for any credit card obtained for said department.
(BC Ord. 2006-5, passed 9-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 2006-11, passed 11-8-06)
§ 37.14 SERVICE FEE FOR TAXES SALES TO COLLECT DELINQUENT TAXES AND/OR SPECIAL
ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Establishment. A fee of $70 shall be charged and collected by the
county from each property owner for each parcel that is on the certified list
of tax sale property prepared by SRI, Inc., or any successor to said
contractor.
   (B)   Deposit and remittance of fees collected. All of said service fees
collected and received by the county from the tax sale shall be deposited into
the county general fund and then remitted to SRI, Inc., or any successor to
said contractor.
(BC Res. 1-2010, passed 6-15-10)
§ 37.15 INVESTMENT OF PUBLIC FUNDS.
   (A)   The investing officer of the county, that being the duly elected
Treasurer, is hereby authorized, pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5, to invest in
certificates of deposit of depositories that have not been designated by the
local board of finance but have been designated by the State Board of Finance
as a depository for state deposits under I.C. 5-13-9-5. This authorization
expires one year after the adoption date.
   (B)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners also authorizes the
investing officer to invest in certificates of deposit under certain conditions
in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.3 as follows:
      (1)   The funds are initially invested through a depository that is
selected by the investing officer.
      (2)   The selected depository arranges for the deposit of the funds in
certificates of deposit in one or more federally insured banks or savings and
loan associations, wherever located, for the account of the county.
      (3)   The full amount of the principal and any accrued interest of each
certificate of deposit are covered by insurance of any federal deposit
insurance agency.
      (4)   The selected depository acts as a custodian for the county with
respect to the certificates of deposit issued for its account.
      (5)   At the same time that the county’s funds are deposited and the
certificates of deposit are issued, the selected depository receives an amount
of deposits covered by insurance of any federal deposit insurance agency from
customers of other institutions, wherever located, at least equal to the amount
of the funds invested by the county through the selected depository.
   (C)   The investing officer of Dearborn County, Indiana, that being the duly
elected Treasurer of Dearborn County, Indiana, is hereby authorized, pursuant
to I.C. 5-13-9-5.7, to invest public funds for more than two years and not more
than five years from the date of purchase or entry into a repurchase agreement
under the following conditions:
      (1)   The investment may only be made with the approval of the investing
officer of the County;
      (2)   The investments must be made in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.7;
      (3)   The total investments outstanding under this resolution may not be
more than 25% of the total portfolio of public funds invested by the political
subdivision, including balances in transaction accounts;
      (4)   The investing officer may contract with a federally regulated
investment advisor or other institutional money manager to make such
investments; and
      (5)   This division (C) and the power to make an investment having a
stated final maturity that is more than two years, but not more than five
years, after the date of purchase expire on the date on which the investment
policy expires, which may not exceed four years.
(BC Ord. 2011-004, passed 4-5-11; Am. BC Ord. 2013-011, passed 5-21-13; Am. BC
Ord. 2013-012, passed 5-21-13; Am. CC Res. 2021-005, passed 9-16-21)
§ 37.16 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this investment policy (the “policy”) is to
set forth the investment objectives and parameters for the management of public
funds of Dearborn County, Indiana (the “county”). This policy is designed to
safeguard funds on behalf of the county, to assure the availability of funds
when needed, and provide a competitive investment return.
   (B)   Scope. This policy applies to the investment of all funds of the
county. The county may consolidate fund balances to increase investment
earnings and to increase efficiencies with regard to investment pricing,
banking fees and administration.
   (C)   General objectives. The primary objectives, in priority order, of
investment activities shall be safety, liquidity, and return:
      (1)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital. The objective will be to minimize credit
risk and interest rate risk.
         (a)   Credit risk. The County will minimize credit risk, which is the
risk of loss due to the failure of the security issuer or backer, by limiting
investments to the types of securities listed in division (F) below.
         (b)   Interest rate risk. The county will minimize interest rate risk,
which is the risk that the market value of securities in the portfolio will
fall due to changes in market interest rates, by structuring the investment
portfolio so that securities mature to meet cash requirements for ongoing
operations, thereby avoiding the need to sell securities prior to maturity.
      (2)   Liquidity. The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently
liquid to meet all operating requirements that may be reasonably anticipated.
This is accomplished by structuring the portfolio so that securities mature
concurrent with cash needs to meet anticipated demands. Furthermore, since all
possible cash demands cannot be anticipated, a portion of the portfolio may be
placed in money market mutual funds or government investment pools which offer
same day liquidity for short-term funds.
      (3)   Return. The investment portfolio shall be designed with the
objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout budgetary and
economic cycles, taking into account the investment risk constraints and
liquidity needs. Return on investment is of secondary importance compared to
the safety and liquidity objectives described above. The core of investments is
limited to relatively low risk securities in anticipation of earning a fair
return relative to the risk being assumed.
   (D)   Standards of care.
      (1)   Delegation of authority. The Treasurer, hereinafter referred to as
the investment officer, shall be responsible to oversee day-to-day management
of the county’s investments. Should the county elect to select an outside
investment advisor, such advisor or firm must be registered under the
Investment Advisor’s Act of 1940.
      (2)   Prudence. The standard of prudence to be used by the investment
officer shall be the “prudent person” standard and shall be applied in the
context of managing all funds of the county. The “prudent person” standard
states that, “Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the probable income to be derived.”
      (3)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. The investment officer and
employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from personal
business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and management
of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to make impartial
decisions. The investment officer and employees shall disclose any material
interests in financial institutions with which they conduct business. They
shall further disclose any personal financial/investment positions that could
be related to the performance of the investment portfolio.
   (E)   Authorized financial institutions and broker/dealers.
      (1)   A list will be maintained of local financial institutions that are
approved depositories for the receipt of public funds according to the Indiana
State Board for Depositories. The county may pass a resolution pursuant to I.C.
5-13-9-5 expanding the list of approved financial institutions to include all
Indiana depositories approved for the receipt of public funds according to the
Indiana State Board of Depositories.
      (2)   In addition, the county will only use broker/dealers that meet the
following requirements:
         (a)   Primary dealers or regional dealers that qualify under
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net capital
rule);
         (b)   Capital of no less than $10,000,000;
         (c)   Registered as a dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934;
         (d)   A member of the National Association of Securities Dealers
(NASD);
         (e)   Proof of state registration.
   (F)   Suitable and authorized investments. Consistent with I.C. 5-13-9, the
following investments will be permitted by this policy:
      (1)   Securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Treasury or fully guaranteed by the United States and issued by any of the
following:
         (a)   The United States Treasury.
         (b)   A federal agency.
         (c)   A federal instrumentality.
         (d)   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
      (2)   Securities fully guaranteed and issued by any of the following:
         (a)   A federal agency.
         (b)   A federal instrumentality.
         (c)   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
      (3)   Municipal securities issued by an Indiana local government entity,
a quasi-governmental entity related to the state, or a unit of government,
municipal corporation, or special taxing district in Indiana, if the issuer has
not defaulted on any of the issuer’s obligations within the 20 years preceding
the date of the purchase in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-2.
      (4)   Money market mutual funds rated AAAm, or its equivalent, by
Standard and Poor’s Corporation or Aaa, or its equivalent, by Moody’s Investors
Service, Inc. in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-2.5.
      (5)   Repurchase agreements in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-3.
      (6)   Transaction accounts, certificates of deposit and deposit accounts
issued or offered by a designated depository of the county’s political
subdivision. The investment officer making a deposit in a certificate of
deposit shall obtain quotes from each designated depository in accordance with
I.C. 5-13-9-4.
      (7)   Certificates of deposit authorized by a resolution of the county in
accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5 and 5-13-9-5.3.
      (8)   Local government investment pools in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-
11.
      (9)   Consistent with I.C. 36-1-7, the county may pass a resolution to
enter into interlocal cooperation agreements for the joint exercise of powers,
including the investment of public funds.
   (G)   Investment parameters.
      (1)   Maximum maturities.
         (a)   The county’s investments must have a stated final maturity of
not more than two years pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.6. Because of inherent
difficulties in accurately forecasting cash flow requirements, a portion of the
county’s funds should be continuously invested in readily available funds such
as bank transaction accounts, local government investment pools, money market
funds, or overnight repurchase agreements to ensure that appropriate liquidity
is maintained to meet ongoing obligations.
         (b)   The county may adopt an ordinance, pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.7,
authorizing its investment officer to make investments having a stated final
maturity that is more than two years but not more than five years after the
date of purchase. The total investments of the county with maturities of two to
five years outstanding at the time of purchase may not exceed 25% of its total
portfolio of public funds invested, including balances in transaction accounts.
Such ordinance expires on the date on which this policy expires, which may not
exceed four years.
      (2)   Competitive bids. The investment officer or its designee shall
obtain competitive bids for investment with financial institutions in
accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-4. The investment officer or its designee shall
obtain bids from at least two brokers or financial institutions on all
purchases of investment instruments on the secondary market. Overnight sweep
investment instruments shall not be subject to this section.
   (H)   Reporting. During the annual meeting required by I.C. 5-13-7-6 of the
Board of Finance of the county, the investment officer shall make a written
report to the board summarizing the county’s investments during the previous
calendar year. The report must contain the name of each financial institution,
government agency or instrumentality, or other person with whom the political
subdivision invested money during the previous calendar year. The Board of
Finance shall review the report and review the overall investment policy of the
county.
   (I)   Policy considerations.
      (1)   Adoption; expiration. This policy shall be adopted by the county at
a public meeting and shall expire four years from the date of adoption in
accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5.7.
      (2)   Exemption. Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided by this policy.
      (3)   Amendments. This policy shall be reviewed periodically. Any changes
must be approved by the investment officer and any other appropriate authority.
(BC Res. 2011-006, passed 4-19- 11; Am. BC Ord. 2013-010, passed 5-21-13; Am.
CC Ord. 2022-007, passed 9-1-22)
§ 37.17 INVESTIGATION OF STORM WATER NUISANCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-28.7-8, a person may file a request to
investigate with the County Surveyor under this chapter if, upon request, the
owner of the land on which the storm water nuisance is located does not remove
the storm water nuisance.
   (B)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners hereby adopt the Request
for Investigation attached and marked as Exhibit A to BC Ord. 2011-010,
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Said Request meets the
requirements of I.C.36-9-28.7-8(b) and was created for the convenience of the
citizens of Dearborn County. Said Request may be picked up in the Dearborn
County Surveyor's Office.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-28.7-9(a), the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners hereby adopts a filing fee of $50 which is reasonably necessary
to defray the expenses incurred by the Board in processing the petition.
Revenue from said filing fees shall be deposited in Account Number ________.
   (D)   Upon completion of the investigation, the County Surveyor shall
proceed according to the provisions set forth in I.C. 36-9-28.7.
(BC Ord. 2011-010, passed 9-6-11)
§ 37.18 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAIN OR NATURAL SURFACE OF WATERCOURSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C.36-9-27.4-9, a person may file a petition under this
chapter asking the Dearborn County Drainage Board to remove, or authorize or
order the removal of, an obstruction from a drain or natural surface
watercourse located outside the person's tract in order to promote better
drainage of the person's tract if, upon request, the owner of the land upon
which the obstruction is located, does not remove the obstruction.
   (B)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners hereby adopts the petition
(Request for Investigation) attached and marked as Exhibit A to BC Ord. 2011-
011, incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Said petition
meets the requirements of I.C. 36-9-27.4-10 and was created for the convenience
of the citizens of Dearborn County. Said petition may be picked up in the
Dearborn County Surveyor's Office.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-9-27.4-11, the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners hereby adopts a filing fee of $50 which is reasonably necessary
to defray the expenses incurred by the Drainage Board in processing the
petition. Revenue from said filing fees shall be deposited in Account Number
            .
(BC Ord. 2011-011, passed 9-6-11)
§ 37.19 FEE FOR PUBLIC PURCHASE OF COMPLETE COUNTY TAX LIST.
   (A)   Establishment. A fee of $200 shall be charged and collected by the
Treasurer to any person or entity requesting a complete tax list of Dearborn
County in electronic format.
   (B)   Deposit of fees collected. All funds collected and received by the
Treasurer from the sale of the complete tax list established in division (A)
above shall be deposited into the county general fund.
(BC Ord. 02-2010, passed 4-6-10)
§ 37.20 PERSONNEL POLICIES HANDBOOK.
   The County of Dearborn, Indiana Personnel Policies Handbook is hereby
adopted and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. It shall be
in full force and effect from and after its passage and shall supersede and
repeal existing oral or written personnel policies and procedures.
(BC Ord. 2010-10, passed 12-7-10; Am. BC Ord. 2011-4, passed 2-15- 11; Am. BC
Ord. 2019-011, passed 10-15-19; Am. BC Ord. 2021-012, passed 12-7-21; Am. BC
Ord. 2022-003, passed 3-15-22; Am. BC Ord. 2022-013, passed 9-6-22; Am. BC Ord.
2023-004, passed 4-4-23; Am. BC Ord. 2023-009, passed 11-8-23)
§ 37.21 FEE FOR DISHONORED CHECKS.
   (A)   The Dearborn County Prosecutor may establish a Bad Check Collection
Program whereby any person who is the payee or holder of a bad check and who
intends to prosecute the issuer of the bad check under I.C. 35-43-5-5 if such
check is not made good may:
      (1)   Authorize the Prosecutor to contact the issuer of the bad check to
determine if such person wishes and intends to make the check good in
accordance with I.C. 35-43-5-5(e) in lieu of prosecution;
      (2)   Authorize the Prosecutor to collect, on behalf of the payee or
holder of the bad check, a protest and service fee in such amount as the
Prosecutor may stipulate and fix on a uniform basis (which may be a fixed
dollar amount or a percentage of the value of the bad check), but which may not
exceed the amount permitted under I.C. 34-24-3-1;
      (3)   Authorize the Prosecutor to retain all service fees collected by
the Prosecutor pursuant to the foregoing division in consideration of the
services provided to the payee or holder by the Prosecutor.
      (4)   The Prosecutor may waive the collection of the fee if the
Prosecutor finds that probable cause for prosecution no longer exists.
   (B)   Upon implementation of the Bad Check Collection Program, as authorized
by division (A) above, the Prosecutor may require the check writer to remit
restitution in the principal amount of any bad check along with all other fees
permitted by law. Checks for reimbursement of the principal amount of the bad
check plus the protest fee from such account may be written to the payee or
holder of the bad check to whom the money is lawfully due without
appropriation. All service fees collected pursuant to division (A) above shall
be regularly delivered to the County Treasurer for deposit in the Prosecutor's
Bad Check Services Fund established hereinafter in division (C).
   (C)   A Prosecutor's Bad Check Services Fund is hereby established. The
purpose of the fund is for deposits of service fees received under divisions
(A) and (B) above. The County Council may only appropriate monies on deposit in
the Prosecutor's Bad Check Services Fund for the purposes of the Prosecutor's
Office, at the discretion of the Prosecutor, although such appropriations may
be made for any purpose county monies may lawfully be appropriated to the
Prosecutor's Office and need not necessarily be limited to attributable costs
of the functions and services from which the fees derive. Any money remaining
in the fund at the end of the year does not revert to any other fund but
continues in the Prosecutor's Bad Check Services Fund.
(BC Ord. 2011-02, passed 1-18-11)
§ 37.22 DEARBORN COUNTY WEBSITE.
   The Dearborn County government website, located at http://
www.dearborncounty.org, shall only contain links to government services and
resources and shall no longer contain any links to outside websites belonging
to private businesses and/or organizations. This section shall be reviewed as
the Board of Commissioners see fit and shall be amended, in writing, by vote of
the Board of Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 2011-008, passed 6-21-11)
§ 37.23 DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS VEHICLES AND OTHER COUNTY OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C.5-22-22 et seq., when any county owned motor
vehicle or other equipment valued over $1,000 is to be retired from active
service, the agency to which the property is assigned will return the vehicle,
keys, maintenance history and all equipment accessories to the Commissioners'
office for disposition.
   (B)   Vehicles will be assigned for disposition in the following order of
priority:
      (1)   All county governmental agencies will be offered an opportunity to
select a replacement vehicle from the pool of available surplus vehicles.
County agencies must provide evidence of a demonstrated need for a vehicle to
perform their duties. Priority of assignment among agencies will be determined
by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Surplus vehicles no longer required for county government use may
be made available to other Dearborn County municipal government agencies and to
volunteer fire and emergency rescue companies that have a current contract with
Dearborn County to provide emergency services to the citizens of Dearborn
County. Available surplus vehicles will be transferred, as is, for $1 on a
first come, first served basis.
      (3)   Vehicles not claimed with the procedures described above may be
sold to the general public under the conditions specified for the sale of
surplus property in the Indiana Code.
(BC Ord. 2011-020, passed 12-20-11)
§ 37.24 FEE FOR PLAT BOOKS.
   Pursuant to the Indiana “Home Rule” statutes, the County Surveyor is hereby
granted authority to sell plat books at a cost of $16 per plat book. The funds
shall be deposited in the County General Account, as designated by the County
Auditor.
(CC Ord. 2012-001, passed 5-22-12)
§ 37.25 SMOKING ON COUNTY PROPERTY AND IN COUNTY OWNED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Smoking in county vehicles. Smoking in a vehicle owned, leased, or
operated by the county is not permitted. Those employees found to have violated
this section will be subject to disciplinary action by their supervisor.
   (B)   Smoking on county property. Smoking on real property owned, leased, or
operated by the county is only permitted in areas designated with signage as a
“Designated Smoking Area”. Those employees found to have violated this section
will be subject to disciplinary action by their supervisor.
(BC Ord. 2012-019, passed 8-21-12)
§ 37.26 GRANT APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   These steps are required before application in addition to the required
grant paperwork. (Application attached to CC Res. 2013-006, passed 9-30-13.)
   (A)   Before grant application.
      (1)   The county grant application must be completed and signed by the
office holder or department head.
      (2)   An application submitted by an organization or individual(s) other
than a county department must be completed and signed by the appropriate person
(s) in charge.
      (3)   The application as well as the official grant request must be
delivered to the Auditor to be placed on the County Commissioner’s and County
Council agenda.
      (4)   If the grant requires a “budget” it must also be presented along
with the request application.
      (5)   The grant application will be considered by the Commissioners and
Council.
      (6)   The Commissioners and/or Council may approve or deny the
application.
      (7)   NOTE: The official grant application must show Dearborn County
Auditor’s Office, 215 B. West High St., Lawrenceburg, IN 47025 as the address
for notices and payments.
   (B)   After grant application.
      (1)   If the grant is awarded to the county and/or applicant, a copy of
the award letter and all other paperwork received must be provided to the
Auditor’s Office.
      (2)   Any communication, correspondence, or changes made between the
application and grantor will be provided to the Auditor’s Office. There will be
no exceptions to this requirement.
      (3)   It is the responsibility of the county department or applicant to
comply with the Grantor’s reporting requirements. Final reports will be given
to the Auditor.
   (C)   Any department, organization, or individual who fails to comply with
these requirements may be denied grant approval.
(CC and BC Res. 2013-006, passed 9-30-13)
§ 37.27 DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY SEIZED BY THE DEARBORN COUNTY SHERIFF’S
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-33-5-5(b), evidence that consists of property
obtained unlawfully from its owner may be returned by the law enforcement
agency to the owner before trial, in accordance with I.C. 35-43-4-4(h).
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-33-5-5(c), following the final disposition of the
cause at trial level or any other final disposition the following shall be
done:
      (1)   Property which may be lawfully possessed shall be returned to its
rightful owner, if known. If ownership is unknown, a reasonable attempt shall
be made by the law enforcement agency holding the property to ascertain
ownership of the property. After 90 days from the time:
         (a)   The rightful owner has been notified to take possession of the
property; or
         (b)   A reasonable effort has been made to ascertain ownership of the
property;
         the Dearborn County Sheriff’s Department shall, at a convenient time,
dispose of the property at a public auction. The proceeds of this property
shall be paid into the county general fund.
      (2)   Except as provided in I.C. 35-33-5-5(e), property, the possession
of which is unlawful, shall be destroyed by the law enforcement agency holding
it 60 days after the final disposition of the cause.
      (3)   A firearm that has been seized from a person who is dangerous (as
defined in I.C. 35-47-14-1) shall be retained, returned, or disposed of in
accordance with I.C. 35-47-14.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-33-5-5(d), if any property described in division
(B) of this section was admitted into evidence in the cause, the property shall
be disposed of in accordance with an order of the court trying the cause.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-33-5-5(f), for purposes of preserving the record
of any conviction on appeal, a photograph demonstrating the nature of the
property, and an adequate description of the property must be obtained before
the disposition of the property.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-33-5-5(g), if the Dearborn County Sheriff’s
Department disposes of property in any manner provided by divisions (A) or (B)
of this section, they shall maintain certified records of any disposition under
division (A) or (B) of this section.
   (F)   Pursuant to I.C. 35-33-5-5(i), if the Dearborn County Sheriff’s
Department disposes of property by auction they shall permanently stamp or
otherwise identify the property as property sold by the Dearborn County
Sheriff’s Department.
   (G)   If the Dearborn County Sheriff’s Department holds a public auction, a
notice of public auction shall be posted at the Dearborn County Courthouse, the
Dearborn County Administration Building, and the Dearborn County Law
Enforcement. Furthermore, a notice of public auction shall run in the local
paper at least two times, two weeks prior to the date of the public auction.
Said notice of public auction should note the date, time, and location of the
auction.
   (H)   The Dearborn County Sheriff’s Department is in the best position to
ascertain the rightful owners of the seized property, however, reasonable
efforts to ascertain the rightful owner shall be made and may include, but is
not limited to, contacting with law enforcement agencies in other counties and/
or states, local area police data base of reports, advertisements in local
newspapers, advertising on local radio stations, posting on the Dearborn County
Sheriff’s Department website and any other means in which one could ascertain
ownership.
   (I)   Receipts or proofs of purchase may be used by the Dearborn County
Sheriff’s Department to show proof of ownership and any other means with which
the Sheriff’s Department deems appropriate.
   (J)   Notification to the rightful owner under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section shall be by phone or certified mail.
(BC Ord. 2015-007, passed 5-67-15)
§ 37.28 [RESERVED.]
§ 37.29 BULK FORM COPIES.
   The County Recorder shall watermark all bulk form copies with the following
language: “Not for resale pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(k).” The aforementioned
language is the minimum the watermark must contain.
(BC Ord. 2016-008, passed 9-6-16)
§ 37.30 NONDISCRIMINATION POLICY.
   (A)   County government values each individual’s civil rights and wishes to
provide equal opportunity and equitable service for the citizens of this
county. As a recipient of federal funds, county government is required to
conform to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and all related statutes,
regulations and directives, which provide that no person shall be excluded from
participation in, denied benefits of, or subjected to discrimination under any
program or activity receiving federal financial assistance from the DOT on the
grounds of race, color, age, sex, disability, national origin or income status.
   (B)   Pursuant to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, and
the Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987, the county will not exclude from
participation in, deny the benefits of, or subject to discrimination any
individual on the grounds of race, color, national origin, sex, age,
disability, limited English proficiency or income status.
   (C)   The county will take prompt and reasonable actions to thoroughly
investigate concerns and complaints. Any individual who believes they have been
subjected to discrimination may file a complaint with the County Title VI
Coordinator. In order for the complaint to be considered, the complainant must
file the appropriate documentation:
      (1)   Within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination; or
      (2)   Where there has been a continuing course of alleged discriminatory
conduct, on the date in which the alleged conduct was discontinued.
   (D)   Employees of county government are afforded these same rights, and
should refer to the Employee Handbook that is accessible through the County
Human Resources Department or via the county’s website/employee intranet
access. The process outlined in county employee handbook policy should be
followed.
   (E)   In all cases, any individual who wishes to discuss discrimination
concerns or any practices that may be viewed as discriminatory, including
anyone wishing to file a formal complaint, may do so by contacting the Title VI
Coordinator in the Office of the County Commissioners. Notice of a barrier may
also be communicated in person, by e-mail or by mail to the Office of the
Dearborn County Board of Commissioners
(BC Res. 2016-004, passed 3-15-16)
§ 37.31 EXECUTION OF CONTRACTS WITH INDOT.
   The President of the Board of Commissioners is hereby given the authority to
legally bind the county to contracts with the Indiana Department of
Transportation by way of electronic signature so long as the contract in
question has been brought before, and approved by, the entire Board of
Commissioners at a public meeting of the Board of Commissioners. If the
contract has been so approved, the electronic signature of all three members is
not required and the President of the Board of Commissioners may unilaterally
execute the contract by electronic signature.
(BC Ord. 2021-002, passed 2-16-21)
CHAPTER 38: GAMING
Section
   
38.01   Riverboat funds
   
38.02   Distribution of portion of gaming admission tax revenue
§ 38.01 RIVERBOAT FUNDS.
   (A)   Two separate funds are hereby created and established to be identified
as the “Riverboat Funds” into which revenues from the riverboat admissions tax
(I.C. 4-33-2-6) and funds received under an agreement to share the City of
Lawrenceburg's tax revenue from gaming operations shall be deposited.
   (B)   The funds so established shall be designated as follows:
      (1)   “Riverboat Fund-Admissions-Tax” which is designated to receive
funds from the riverboat admissions tax under I.C. 4-33-2-6.
      (2)   “Riverboat Fund-Revenue Sharing” which is designated to receive
funds received under an agreement to share in the City of Lawrenceburg's tax
revenue from gaming operations.
   (C)   Money in the Riverboat Fund may be used for any legal or corporate
purpose of county government.
   (D)   Funds contained in the Riverboat Fund may not be used to reduce the
county's maximum or actual levy under I.C. 6-1.1-18.5.
(BC Ord. 11-1997, passed 6-16-97)
§ 38.02 DISTRIBUTION OF PORTION OF GAMING ADMISSION TAX REVENUE.
   (A)   The county will set aside, for purposes of distribution pursuant to
this section, 25% of the net amount of Gaming Admission Tax Revenues received
by the county.
   (B)   The Shared Gaming Admission Tax Revenues shall be distributed under
the terms of one or more revenue sharing agreements to be entered pursuant to
I.C. § 4-33-12-6 by the county and those county cities and towns that wish to
participate in receiving a portion of the Shared Gaming Admission Tax Revenues
(the “Agreement(s)”).
   (C)   The Shared Gaming Admission Tax Revenues shall be distributed in
percentages as follows:
   Greendale   39%
   Aurora   36%
   Dillsboro   13%
   Moores Hill   6%
   St. Leon   4%
   West Harrison   2%
   (D)   The share allocated to the Dearborn County Cities and Towns shall be
adjusted when the results of the 2000 census are promulgated by the United
States Government Census Bureau at a rate equal to the percentage of its
population to the total population of Dearborn County. New cities and towns
created within the county shall be permitted to participate upon their
establishment or incorporation, and execution of a revenue sharing agreement.
Population for distribution to new cities and towns shall be determined by
agreement among participating county cities and towns.
   (E)   The share allocated to any of the county cities and towns who elect
not to receive a portion of the Shared Gaming Admission Tax Revenues shall be
retained by the county.
(CC Res. 7-1997, passed 11-25-97; Am. CC Res. 4-2003, passed 9-9-03)
CHAPTER 39: COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Purpose
   
39.02   Definitions
   
39.03   Establishment; purpose
   
39.04   Permitted programs
   
39.05   Contracting with other counties
   
39.06   Limitations
Community Corrections Advisory Board
   
39.15   Community Corrections Advisory Board
   
39.16   Multi-county Community Corrections Advisory Board
   
39.17   Length of service
   
39.18   Election of officers; quorum
   
39.19   Appropriations
   
39.20   Community Corrections Advisory Board—Duties
   
39.21   Director; employees
   
39.22   Community Corrections Plan
   
39.23   Eligibility for financial aid
   
39.24   Restrictions on use of funds
   
39.25   Termination of participation
Community Corrections Funds
   
39.35   Community Corrections Fund
   
39.36   Community Corrections Home Detention Fund
   
39.37   County Misdemeanant Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01 PURPOSE.
   To establish a Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board and
necessary funds as permitted by I.C. 11-12 and as required to qualify for
financial aid under I.C. 11-12-2 et seq.
BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY BOARD. The Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Indiana Department of Corrections.
   COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS PROGRAM. A community-based program that provides
preventive services, services to offenders, services to persons charged with a
crime or an act of delinquency, services to persons diverted from the criminal
or delinquency process, services to persons sentenced to imprisonment, or
services to victims of crime or delinquency, and is operated under a community
corrections plan of a county and funded at least in part by the state subsidy
provided in I.C. 11-12-2.
   DEPARTMENT. The Indiana Department of Corrections.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.03 ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.
   As established by I.C. 11-12-1-2, notwithstanding any other law, a county or
any combination of counties may establish and operate a Community Corrections
Advisory Board for the purpose of coordinating or operating community
corrections programs. The county, in consultation with the Advisory Board,
shall coordinate or operate community corrections programs from any of the
following:
   (A)   The prevention of crime or delinquency;
   (B)   Persons sentenced to imprisonment in a county or local penal facility
other than a state owned or operated facility;
   (C)   Committed offenders; and/or
   (D)   Persons ordered to participate in community corrections programs as a
condition of probation.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.04 PERMITTED PROGRAMS.
   (A)   The community corrections programs described in §
39.03 of this chapter may include the following:
      (1)   Residential or work release programs;
      (2)   House arrest, home detention, and electronic monitoring programs;
      (3)   Community restitution or service programs;
      (4)   Victim-offender reconciliation programs;
      (5)   Jail services programs;
      (6)   Jail work crews;
      (7)   Community work crews;
      (8)   Juvenile detention alternative programs;
      (9)   Day reporting programs;
      (10)   Faith based programs; and/or
      (11)   Other community corrections programs approved by the Department.
   (B)   The Community Corrections Advisory Board may also coordinate and
operate educational, mental health, drug or alcohol abuse counseling, housing,
as part of any of these programs, or supervision services for persons described
in §
39.03 of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.05 CONTRACTING WITH OTHER COUNTIES.
   As permitted by I.C. 11-12-1-4, the Southeast Regional Community Corrections
Advisory Board may contract with one or more other counties for programs or
purchase from one or more counties the use of these programs. Southeast
Regional Community Corrections currently provides services to Dearborn, Ohio
and Switzerland counties and may, with the guidance of the Southeast Regional
Community Corrections Advisory Board, enter into agreements for services with
other counties.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.06 LIMITATIONS.
   This chapter does not limit or impair the statutory authority of any elected
official, including the Dearborn County Sheriffs authority over the Dearborn
County Law Enforcement Center and persons confined therein.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD
§ 39.15 COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD.
   The Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board is established
by I.C. 11-12-2-2 and under this statute consists of the following individuals:
   (A)   The Dearborn County Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee;
   (B)   The Dearborn and Ohio County Prosecuting Attorney or the Prosecuting
Attorney’s designee;
   (C)   The Director of the Dearborn County Department of Child Services
office or the Director’s designee;
   (D)   The executive of the most populous municipality in the participating
counties or the executive’s designee. As of the 2010 census, this position
would be the Mayor of the City of Lawrenceburg or the Mayor’s designee;
   (E)   The Judge of the Dearborn Superior Court No. I;
   (F)   The Judge of the Dearborn Superior Court II;
   (G)   The Judge of the Dearborn and Ohio Circuit Courts;
   (H)   One public defender or the public defender’s designee, if available,
or one attorney with a substantial criminal defense practice appointed by the
Dearborn County Board of Commissioners;
   (I)   One victim, or victim advocate, appointed by the Dearborn County Board
of Commissioners;
   (J)   One ex-offender, if available, appointed by the Dearborn County Board
of Commissioners;
   (K)   One member of the Dearborn County Council;
   (L)   One probation officer appointed by the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners;
   (M)   One educational administrator appointed by the Dearborn County Board
of Commissioners;
   (N)   One mental health administrator, or, if there is none available in
Dearborn County, one psychiatrist, psychologist, or physician appointed by the
Dearborn County Board of Commissioners; and
   (O)   Four lay persons, at least one of whom must be a member of a minority
race, appointed by the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners.
   (P)   The Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board may,
through its by-laws, appoint additional non-voting community consultants to the
Advisory Board annually to assure appropriate representation from each of the
participating counties.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13; Am. BC Res. 2013-002, passed 2-5-13)
§ 39.16 MULTI-COUNTY COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD.
   Dearborn County, as the sponsoring county, has previously entered into
agreements with Ohio and Switzerland counties to combine and form Southeast
Regional Community Corrections as permitted by I.C. 11-12-2. Pursuant to I.C. 1
l-12-2-2(d), the Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board must
contain the representation prescribed in §
39.15, above, but the members may come from the participating counties as
determined by agreement of the Boards of Commissioners of the participating
counties.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.17 LENGTH OF SERVICE.
   Members of the Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board
appointed by the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners shall be appointed for
a term of four years. Other members serve only while holding the office or
position held at the time of appointment. A vacancy occurring before the
expiration of the term of office shall be filled in the same manner as original
appointments for the unexpired term. Members may be reappointed.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.18 ELECTION OF OFFICERS AND QUORUM.
   The members of the Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board
shall, within 30 days after the last initial appointment is made, meet and
elect one member as Chairman and another as Vice Chairman and appoint a
Secretary-Treasurer who need not be a member. A majority of the members of the
Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board may provide for a
number of members that is:
   (A)   Less than a majority of the members; and
   (B)   At least six;
to constitute a quorum for purposes of transacting business. The affirmative
votes of at least five members, but not less than a majority of the members
present, are required for the Advisory Board to take action. A vacancy in the
membership does not impair the right of a quorum to transact business.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.19 APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners and the Dearborn County
Council shall provide necessary assistance and appropriations to the Southeast
Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board. Appropriations required under
this chapter are limited to amounts received from the following sources:
      (1)   Department grants;
      (2)   User fees; and/or
      (3)   Other funds contained within an approved plan.
   (B)   Additional funds may be appropriated as determined by the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners and the Dearborn County Council and may be
coordinated with additional funds appropriated by the Boards of Commissioners
and the County Councils of the participating counties.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.20 COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD—DUTIES.
   The Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board shall:
   (A)   Formulate:
      (1)   The Community Corrections Plan and the application for financial
aid required by I.C. 11-12-2-4; and
      (2)   The Forensic Diversion Program Plan under I.C. 11-12-3.7;
   (B)   Observe and coordinate community corrections programs in the
participating counties;
   (C)   Make an amiual report to the Boards of Commissioners and the County
Councils of the participating counties containing an evaluation of the
effectiveness of programs receiving financial aid under this chapter and
recommendations for improvement, modification, or discontinuance of these
programs;
   (D)   Ensure that programs receiving financial aid under this chapter comply
with the standards adopted by the Department under I.C. 11-12-2-5;
   (E)   Recommend to the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners the approval
or disapproval of contracts with units of local government or nongovernmental
agencies that desire to participate in the Community Corrections Plan. Before
recommending approval of a contract, the Advisory Board must determine that a
program is capable of meeting the standards adopted by the Department under
I.C. 11-12-2-5;
   (F)   Adopt bylaws for the conduct of its own business;
   (G)   Hold a regular meeting at least one time every three months and at
other times as needed to conduct all necessary business. Dates of regular
meetings shall be established at the first meeting of each year; and
   (H)   Comply with the public meeting and notice requirements under I.C. 14-
1.5.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.21 DIRECTOR; EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Director of the Community Corrections Program, if any, shall be
appointed by the Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board,
subject to the approval of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners. The
Director may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the Southeast Regional
Community Corrections Advisory Board, subject to the approval of the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board may
establish personnel policies, procedures, and salary classification schedules
for its employees, Employees of a community corrections program are county
employees. The policies, procedures, and schedules established under this
chapter may not be inconsistent with current Dearborn County policies,
procedures, and schedules.
   (C)   The Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board may
establish a Personnel Committee comprised of members of the Advisory Board and
additional members as determined by the Advisory Board to assist in reviewing
hiring, job descriptions, job performance and other personnel issues and to
provide reports to the Advisory Board and the Boards of Commissioners of the
participating counties.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.22 COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS PLAN.
   (A)   The Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board must
develop a Community Corrections Plan and have the Plan approved by the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Community Corrections Plan must comply with rules adopted under
I.C. 11-12-2-5 and must include:
      (1)   A description of each program for which financial aid is sought;
      (2)   The purpose, objective, administrative structure, staffing, and
duration of the program;
      (3)   A method to evaluate each component of the program to determine the
overall use of Department approved best practices for the program;
      (4)   The program’s total operating budget, including all other sources
of anticipated income;
      (5)   The amount of community involvement and client participation in the
program;
      (6)   The location and description of facilities that will be used in the
program; and
      (7)   The manner in which counties that jointly apply for financial aid
will operate a coordinated community corrections program.
   (C)   The Community Corrections Plan must be annually updated, approved by
the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners, and submitted to the Commissioner.
   (D)   No amendment to or substantial modification of the approved Community
Corrections Plan may be placed in effect until the Department and the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners have approved the amendment or modification.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.23 ELIGIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL AID.
   To remain eligible for financial aid under I.C. 11-12-2, the participating
counties must comply with its Community Corrections Plan and the rules and
minimum standards adopted by the Department under I.C. 11-12-2-5.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.24 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The participating counties may not use funds received under I.C. 11-
12-2 to construct an addition to or renovate any law enforcement center.
   (B)   The participating counties may use funds received under I.C. 11-12-
2 to construct a county operated residential work release facility, if the
facility is not:
      (1)   Physically connected to a jail; or
      (2)   Used to house offenders who are required to serve their sentence in
a county jail.
   (C)   The Department may provide funds under I.C. 11-12-2 for the
construction of a facility under §
39.23(B) in an amount that does not exceed 50% of the cost of construction of
the facility. The funds provided under this division (C) may not be used for
any puipose other than the construction of the facility.
   (D)   The counties acting under §
39.23(B) shall provide the funds required for:
      (1)   The construction of the facility in addition to the funds provided
by the Department under §
39.23(C);
      (2)   The operation of the facility; and
      (3)   The administration of the community corrections program.
   (E)   A residential work release facility constructed under §
39.23(B) may not be used for any purpose other than the operation of a
community corrections program during the ten- year period following the
completion of construction.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.25 TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION.
   The participating counties may terminate its participation in the Department
subsidy program at any time by delivering a resolution of the Boards of
Commissioners of the participating counties to the Commissioner. Upon
withdrawal from the subsidy program, the Boards of Commissioners of the
participating counties may adopt a resolution stating that it is in the best
interests of the participating counties that the Southeast Regional Community
Corrections Advisory Board be dissolved, whereupon the Boards of Commissioners
of the participating counties shall pay and discharge any debts or liabilities
of the Advisory Board, collect and distribute assets of the Advisory Board
under the laws of Indiana, and pay over any remaining proceeds or property to
the proper fund.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS FUNDS
§ 39.35 COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS FUND.
   (A)   A Community Corrections Fund has previously been established pursuant
to I.C. 11-12-2-12 in Dearborn County and by this chapter, Dearborn County
hereby reaffirms the establishment of this Fund. The Fund shall be administered
by the Southeast Regional Corrections Advisory Board in accordance with rules
adopted by the Department under I.C. 11-12-2-12(c). The expenses of
administering the Fund shall be paid from money in the Fund. Money in the Fund
at the end of a fiscal year does not revert to any other fund. The Fund
consists of fees deposited under §
39.35(B). Money in the Fund may be used only for the provision of community
corrections program services, including services allowed under I.C. 11-12-2-5
(b)(3).
   (B)   In addition to user fees collected under I.C. 35-38-2-1, or any other
user fee collected from a participant in a community corrections program by an
agency or program, the Southeast Regional Community Corrections Program may
collect from a participant a user fee assessed in accordance with rules adopted
under I.C. 11-12-2-12(c). Community corrections user fees collected under this
section shall be deposited into the Community Corrections Fund established by
this section.
   (C)   The Department shall adopt rules under I.C. 4-22-2 governing the
following:
      (1)   The maximum amount that a community corrections program or a court
may assess as a user fee under I.C. 1l-12-2-12(b) or I.C. 35-38-2.5-6; and
      (2)   Administration by Community Correction Advisory Boards of Community
Corrections Funds and the Community Corrections Home Detention Fund, including
criteria for expenditures from the Funds.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.36 COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS HOME DETENTION FUND.
   (A)   A Community Corrections Home Detention Fund has previously been
established pursuant to I.C. 11-12-7 in Dearborn County and by this chapter,
Dearborn County hereby reaffirms the establislnnent of this Fund.
   (B)   The Fund consists of:
      (1)   Home detention user fees deposited into the Fund under I.C. 35-38-
2.5-8;
      (2)   Home detention supervision grants to the community corrections
program made by the Department under I.C. 11-12-2-1 for the purpose of funding
supervision of home detention by a community corrections program; and
      (3)   Amounts deposited into the Fund under I.C. 11-12-1-3.
   (C)   The Southeast Regional Community Corrections Advisory Board shall
annually submit a budget of its operating expenses for home detention
supervision to the Dearborn County Council. Based on the budget submitted, the
Dearborn County Council shall appropriate from the Community Corrections Home
Detention Fund amounts necessary to maintain supervision of home detention by
the community corrections program.
   (D)   Money in the Community Corrections Home Detention Fund at the end of a
fiscal year does not revert to any other fund.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
§ 39.37 COUNTY MISDEMEANANT FUND.
   (A)   A County Misdemeanant Fund has previously been established pursuant to
I.C. 11-12-6 in Dearborn County and by this chapter. Dearborn County hereby
reaffirms the establishment of this Fund.
   (B)   The Dearborn County Council shall receive deposits and administer the
County Misdemeanant Fund. The Fund consists of deposits made by the Department
under §
39.37(C) of this chapter.
   (C)   Before September 1 of each year after 1998, the Department shall
deposit in the County Misdemeanant Fund of Dearborn County the greatest of the
following:
      (1)   The sum determined by multiplying the total amount appropriated the
County Misdemeanant Fund (35,000) by Dearborn County’s multiplier (.0077);
      (2)   The minimum allocation amount assigned to Dearborn County under
state statute; or
      (3)   After state fiscal year 1999, the amount deposited by the
Department into the County Misdemeanant Fund for Dearborn County in state
fiscal year 1999.
   (D)   The County Misdemeanant Fund shall be used only for funding the
operation of the Dearborn County Law Enforcement Center, jail programs, or
other local correctional facilities or community based programs. Any money
remaining in the County Misdemeanant Fund at the end of the year does not
revert to any other fund, but remains in the County Misdemeanant Fund.
(BC Ord. 2013-004, passed 2-2-13)
Cross-references:
   County funds in general, see
Ch. 34
   See also §
34.11
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 11-12-6 was repealed by P.L. 179-2015, sec. 7.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH DISPOSAL
      
51.   SEWAGE DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH DISPOSAL
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Dumping
   
50.03   Solid Waste Management District
   
50.04   Enforcement of provisions
Permits
   
50.15   Operators permit
   
50.16   Public disposal site permit
   
50.17   Permit fees
   
50.18   Suspension and revocation of permits
Sanitary Requirements
   
50.30   Inspection required prior to permit issuance
   
50.31   Pollution
   
50.32   Salvaging; scavenging
   
50.33   Burning refuse
   
50.34   Earth moving equipment; area to be graded
   
50.35   Domestic animals, rodents and insects, dust control
   
50.36   Hazardous materials
   
50.37   Refuse to be spread for compacting
   
50.38   Inspection at end of completion of project
   
50.39   Exceptions and limitations
   
50.40   Modification of rules
   
50.41   Inspections
   
50.42   Other methods of disposal to be reviewed by Health Department
Application, Marketing and/or Distribution of Biosolids Within the County
   
50.55   Definitions
   
50.56   Requirements for application, marketing and distribution within the
county
   
50.57   Application of wastes from outside the county prohibited
   
50.58   Land application site evaluation and regulation
   
50.59   Inspections of biosolid application sites
   
50.60   Violations
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY. Any area in Dearborn County, State of Indiana, which is under the
jurisdiction of the Dearborn County Health Officer.
   GARBAGE. Those putrescible wastes resulting from the growing, handling,
storage, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   GROUND WATER. Water in the ground that is in the zone of saturation.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Includes, but is not limited to, explosives,
pathological wastes, radioactive materials and chemicals.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, association, syndicate, company, firm,
trust, corporation, government corporation, department, bureau, agency, or any
entity recognized by law.
   PUBLIC DISPOSAL. Disposal of refuse which has been removed from premises
used, owned or leased by one or more persons, firms, corporations, or
associations, and transported to other premises and disposed either with or
without the payment of a fee.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, with the exception
of body wastes, and shall include garbage, rubbish, ashes, street sweepings,
dead animals, and industrial and construction wastes.
   RUBBISH. All nonputrescible wastes including such matter as ashes, cans,
metalware, broken glass, crockery, dirt, sweepings, boxes, wood, grass, weeds
or litter of any kind.
   SALVAGING. The controlled removal of reusable materials.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A method of disposing of refuse on land without creating
nuisances or hazards to public health or safety, by utilizing principles of
engineering to confine the refuse to the smallest practical area, to reduce it
to the smallest practical volume, and to cover it with a compacted layer of
suitable material at the conclusion of each day and at more frequent intervals
as necessary.
   SCAVENGING. The uncontrolled picking of materials.
   SURFACE WATER. A body of water whose top surface is exposed to the
atmosphere including a flowing body as well as a pond and a lake.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71)
§ 50.02 DUMPING.
   (A)   Title. This section, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory
hereto, shall be known as the Dumping Ordinance, and may be cited as such.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to define dumping, to control
the same throughout the county, to establish penalties therefor, and to provide
for the cleanup thereof.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DUMPING. The discarding of garbage, used household goods, used
appliances, automobile parts, trash, bags of trash or garbage, and other items
commonly disposed of in sanitary landfills.
      (2)   LITTERING. The occasional discarding of a single small item of
trash such as an aluminum can, cigarette butt, cigarette package, or similar
items, and shall not include anything or any combination of items larger than
one small trash can full.
   (D)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Dumping. It shall be unlawful for any person, organization,
corporation, or entity to dump at any location in the county, unless such
location shall be an approved landfill site.
      (2)   Littering. It shall be unlawful for any person, organization,
corporation, or entity to litter anywhere in Dearborn County, Indiana.
   (E)   Cleanup.
      (1)   In the event any dumping has occurred at any location throughout
the county, notice shall be given by anyone having knowledge to the Sheriff,
who shall then investigate the site, along with the assistance of such other
county officials as he or she may require, to determine whether any items in
the dumping site can be identified by the names of any such individuals.
      (2)   In the event the identity of any such individuals can be
determined, such individuals shall be issued an order by authority of the Board
of Commissioners to remove and clean up such dumped items within a time period
of no less than 30 days. In the event such individuals fail to comply with this
order, then the county may perform such cleanup utilizing such resources as are
required, and the costs of cleanup shall be chargeable against the individual,
corporation, persons, or entities identified with said dumping site.
      (3)   Should the individuals identified be owners of real property within
the county, the cost of such cleanup may be certified to the County Auditor and
Treasurer and said cost shall be placed against the taxes of such property
owner as an additional assessment for dumping cleanup and shall be payable by
such property owners in semi-annual installments in the same manner and subject
to the same penalties as real property taxes.
      (4)   If the identity of individuals associated with the dumping can be
determined, the county shall further have the right to seek injunctive or other
relief through the appropriate court system to obtain an order prohibiting
future dumping or requiring the identified dumper to clean up the dump area.
      (5)   In the event that the dump area contains information identifying
more than one individual, person, corporation or entity, it shall be the joint
and individual responsibility of each such person, corporation, individual or
entity for the cleanup of the whole dumpsite and all actions authorized under
this section shall be taken against any and all violators.
(BC Ord. 10-1991, passed 12-16-91) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Establishment. This section establishes the Dearborn County Solid
Waste Management District; to authorize it to organize in accordance with I.C.
13-21-3; and to authorize it to perform all the functions directed by said law,
as it is now promulgated or as the same may hereafter be modified by judicial
decision or legislative amendment.
   (B)   Title. This section, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory
hereto, shall be known as the Dearborn County Solid Waste Management District
Ordinance, and may be cited as such.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the
establishment of the Dearborn County Solid Waste Management District in
accordance with Indiana Code.
   (D)   Territory. All of the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the
county shall be included in the Dearborn County Solid Waste Management
District.
   (E)   The Dearborn County Auditor is hereby authorized to make continuous
distributions of the County Option Income Tax Funds to the Dearborn County
Solid Waste Management District.
(BC Ord. 5-1992, passed 6-5-92; CC Res. 1-1999, passed 4-27-99)
§ 50.04 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The enforcement of this chapter shall be by the County Health Officer.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the County Prosecuting Attorney, to whom the
County Health Officer shall report any violations of the provisions of this
chapter, to cause proceedings to be commenced against the person violating the
provisions of this chapter and to prosecute to final termination.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71)
PERMITS
§ 50.15 OPERATORS PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the county, who does not
possess an unrevoked permit from the Health Officer, to engage in the removal
and/or the transportation of refuse from premises to a location other than the
place or origin of such refuse for disposal. The provisions of this section
shall not apply to any person disposing of only their own refuse if transported
to an approved disposal site in a sanitary manner.
   (B)   Before a permit is issued by the Health Officer for the collection and
transportation of refuse, all equipment and vehicles to be used shall be
approved by the Health Officer. All equipment and vehicles used to transport
refuse to an approved disposal site shall have suitably constructed, sanitary
type, all enclosed bodies and shall be cleaned as may be necessary to prevent
nuisances and health hazards. Equipment other than the above shall meet the
approval of the Health Officer.
   (C)   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name of the
person to whom the permit is granted and such other pertinent information as
may be required by the Health Officer. A separate permit shall be required for
each vehicle used to transport refuse.
   (D)   Only persons who comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be
entitled to receive and retain such a permit. The permit shall be for the term
of one year on a calendar year basis and shall be renewable annually. No permit
or renewal thereof shall be denied on arbitrary or capricious grounds.
   (E)   Before any operator permit shall be issued, the applicant for such a
permit shall first furnish and deposit with the Health Officer a certificate of
insurance showing public liability and property damage insurance policy
insuring the applicant against liability for damages sustained by a person
other than the employee of said applicant and occasioned by the neglectful
operation of the vehicle or vehicles of said applicant, and the insurance
policy shall provide a minimum coverage in the amount of $15,000 for the injury
or death of any one person as a result of any one accident, and shall provide a
minimum coverage in the amount of $30,000 in the aggregate for the injury or
death of two or more persons on any one accident and a minimum coverage of
$30,000 for property damage. Such insurance policy shall be written by a
company authorized to do business in the State of Indiana.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 PUBLIC DISPOSAL SITE PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or permit to be used any
land, premises, or property within the county for a refuse disposal site
without first filing an application with the Health Officer and securing a
valid permit from the Health Officer for such operation.
   (B)   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name of the
person to whom the permit is granted, the address of the premises for which it
is issued, and such other pertinent information as may be required by the
Health Officer. A separate permit shall be required for each disposal site
operated, or to be operated by any person.
   (C)   Only persons who comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be
entitled to receive and retain such a permit. The permit shall be for the term
of one year on a calendar year basis and shall be renewable annually. No permit
or renewal thereof shall be denied on arbitrary or capricious grounds.
   (D)   Before a permit is issued by the Health Officer for any new disposal
site, detailed plans and specifications and necessary reports must be submitted
to the Health Officer by a registered professional engineer. The services of a
registered professional engineer for the preparation of plans and
specifications for a disposal site may be waived, when the Health officer, in
his or her judgment, believes that technical problems will not be encountered,
however, the required plans and specifications must then be prepared and
submitted by the permit applicant.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The operator permit fee shall be $1 per truck per year beginning
January 1, of each year, provided, however, that any permit issued after July
1, for the balance of the year, shall be one half the yearly sum.
      (1)   Permits shall not be transferable and shall be carried on the
vehicle at all times.
      (2)   Operators who comply with the provisions of this chapter and are
required to pay a similar fee from another governmental agency shall be exempt
from this section.
   (B)   The public disposal site permit fee shall be $10 per site per year
beginning January 1 of each year and expiring December 31 of the same year, and
shall be renewed annually.
   (C)   State, county and municipal governments shall be exempt from all fees
under the terms of this chapter.
   (D)   All fees collected under the terms of this chapter shall be receipted
into the county treasury and credited to the County Health Fund, for services
rendered in enforcing this chapter.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71)
§ 50.18 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Any permit may be temporarily suspended by the Health Officer without
notice or hearing upon violation by the holder of any of the terms of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any permit issued under the terms of this chapter may be revoked after
an opportunity for a hearing by the Health Officer upon serious or repeated
violation.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71)
SANITARY REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.30 INSPECTION REQUIRED PRIOR TO PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The issuance of any permit to a person for the operation of a proposed
refuse disposal site shall be subject to the approval of the Health Officer who
shall inspect the proposed site prior to the issuance of a permit.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71)
§ 50.31 POLLUTION.
   Sanitary landfill operations shall be so designed and executed that
conditions of pollution will not be created and injury to ground and surface
water shall be avoided which might interfere with legitimate water uses. Water
filled areas not directly connected to natural lakes, rivers, or streams shall
be drained or may be filled with specific inert material not detrimental to
legitimate water uses and which will not create a nuisance or hazard to health.
Special approval of the drainage method or of the inert material to be used in
such fill is required in writing from the Health Officer.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.32 SALVAGING; SCAVENGING.
   Salvaging, if permitted, shall be organized so that it will not interfere
with prompt sanitary disposal of refuse or create unsightliness or health
hazards. This provision in no way precludes the right of a landfill operator to
prevent salvaging as a part of his or her operational standards. Scavenging
shall not be permitted. All salvage material must be removed from the disposal
area at least once each week except that any and all materials containing food
for rodents and insects, including tin cans, shall be disposed of daily in a
sanitary manner.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 BURNING REFUSE.
   No refuse shall be burned at a refuse disposal site after the effective date
of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.34 EARTH MOVING EQUIPMENT; AREA TO BE GRADED.
   (A)   Any person engaged in public refuse disposal by sanitary landfill
shall have available at all times earth moving equipment of adequate size and
capacity to satisfactorily operate such sanitary landfill. An all weather road
shall be provided to the sanitary landfill site and site of operation.
   (B)   The entire site, including the fill surface, shall be graded and
provided with drainage facilities to minimize runoff onto and into the fill, to
prevent erosion or washing of the fill, to drain off rain water falling on the
fill, and to prevent the collection of standing water.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.35 DOMESTIC ANIMALS, RODENTS AND INSECTS, DUST CONTROL.
   (A)   Domestic animals shall be excluded from any public refuse disposal
site.
   (B)   Infestation of rodents and insects on the premises of a public refuse
disposal site shall constitute a violation of this chapter and such violation
shall be determined by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Measures shall be provided to control dust and blowing paper. The
entire area shall be kept clean and orderly.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Hazardous materials, including liquids and sewage, shall not be disposed of
in a sanitary landfill unless special provisions are made for such disposal
through the Health Officer, the State Board of Health or the Water Pollution
Control Board.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.37 REFUSE TO BE SPREAD FOR COMPACTING.
   (A)   Refuse shall be spread so that it can be compacted in layers not
exceeding a depth of two feet. Large and bulky items, when not excluded from
the site, shall be disposed of in a manner approved by the Health Officer.
   (B)   At the end of each day's operation, the surface of the thoroughly
compacted refuse shall be covered with several inches of dirt. A final layer of
suitable cover material compacted to a minimum thickness of two feet shall be
placed over the entire surface of each portion not later than one week
following the placement of refuse within that portion.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.38 INSPECTION AT END OF COMPLETION OF PROJECT.
   An inspection of the entire site shall be made by the Health Officer at the
completion of the landfill project to determine compliance with approved plans
and specifications before the earth moving equipment is removed from the site.
Any necessary corrective work shall be performed before the landfill project is
accepted as completed. The permit holder shall be responsible for the repair of
all cracked, eroded, and uneven areas in the final cover during the first two
years following completion of the landfill.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71)
§ 50.39 EXCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Existing refuse disposal sites operated by a unit of government may be
temporarily approved by the Health Officer even though such sites do not comply
with the sanitary requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in public disposal of
refuse on any land, premises or property which has not been approved by the
Health Officer as a public disposal site.
   (C)   Any person who employs or permits another person, with or without
compensation, to remove or transport refuse from premises to a location other
than the place of origin of such refuse, shall be liable in case his or her
refuse is discarded along public roads or any area not approved by the Health
Department as a refuse disposal site, unless the original owner of the refuse
is able to provide the name and address of the person who collected,
transported and disposed of the refuse.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of refuse on premises
at the place of origin in such quantities as to have public health
significance.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.40 MODIFICATION OF RULES.
   Modification of the rules on sanitary landfills as applicable to existing
disposal areas may be made by the Health Officer. These modifications must be
approved in writing.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71)
§ 50.41 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   At least once each three months the Health Officer shall inspect each
refuse site located within the county.
   (B)   In case the Health Officer discovers a violation of any item of
sanitation pertinent to the provisions of this chapter, he or she shall make a
second inspection after the lapse of such time as he or she deems necessary for
the defect to be remedied, and the second inspection shall be used in
determining compliance with terms of this chapter. Any violation of the same
item of the chapter on such second inspection shall call for suspension or
revocation of permit.
   (C)   One copy of the Health Officer's inspection report, on which
violations of any item of sanitation pertinent to the provisions of this
chapter shall be inscribed, shall be delivered to the permittee by the Health
Officer. Another copy of the aforementioned inspection report shall be filed by
the Health Officer with the records of the Health Department. The person
operating the public disposal site shall, upon request of the Health Officer,
permit access to all parts of the grounds by said Health Officer and shall
permit him to copy any and all records pertaining to the sources of refuse
transported thereto for disposal.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71)
§ 50.42 OTHER METHODS OF DISPOSAL TO BE REVIEWED BY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   Any other method of solid waste disposal not covered by these rules shall be
reviewed by the Health Department for the purposes of evaluating the design and
operational methods with reference to the nuisance factor, the safety of
employees and protection of the public health. Such disposal methods shall be
subject to the evaluation and approval of the Health Officer.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71)
APPLICATION, MARKETING AND/OR DISTRIBUTION OF BIOSOLIDS WITHIN THE COUNTY
§ 50.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FENCE. A barrier a minimum of four feet in height and of such construction
as to inhibit access by domestic animals and to discourage trespass by others.
   PERMIT HOLDER. A holder of a permit issued by the State Department of
Environmental Management and of a permit issued by the county, and such permit
holder shall comply with all applicable state and county laws, rules and
regulations.
(BC Ord. 3-2002, passed 3-18-02)
§ 50.56 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPLICATION, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION WITHIN THE
COUNTY.
   Any biosolid waste product produced or generated in the county shall only be
applied, marketed and/or distributed by a person as defined in I.C. 13-11-2-158
(a) to any land within the county if the following occur:
   (A)   Such person shall have a valid permit for land application, marketing,
and/or distribution of biosolid waste product as required in 327 IAC 6.1 et
seq., and such person shall be in compliance with all state laws, rules and
regulations applying thereto;
   (B)   Such person obtains a permit from the County Board of Health or its
designee, for land application, marketing, and/or distribution of biosolid
waste product, pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted by the County
Board of Commissioners, prior to any application, marketing and/or distribution
of biosolid waste product; and
   (C)   Such person shall apply to renew such permit with the county annually
upon the date of such permit's issuance.
(BC Ord. 3-2002, passed 3-18-02)
§ 50.57 APPLICATION OF WASTES FROM OUTSIDE THE COUNTY PROHIBITED.
   Any biosolid waste product produced or generated outside of the county shall
not be applied, marketed or distributed to any land within the county,
including, but not limited to, any biosolid waste originating outside the
county that is added to waste at a facility within the county, so that such
resulting biosolid waste product shall not be applied within the county.
(BC Ord. 3-2002, passed 3-18-02)
§ 50.58 LAND APPLICATION SITE EVALUATION AND REGULATION.
   (A)   Any person with a land application permit pursuant to 327 IAC 6.1 et
seq. shall ensure that a soil scientist shall evaluate each and every land
application site used by such person. The certified soil scientist must meet
the minimum qualifications to be included on the State Department of Health's
list of approved soil scientists. The evaluation shall consist of the
following:
      (1)   A minimum of three borings within any proposed acre being
considered for biosolid land application;
      (2)   A topographic description of the proposed land application site
including, but not limited to, any drainage ways, diversions swales, sink
holes, and a map detailing where individual soil borings have been taken. The
map shall also include the proposed outline of the biosolid land application
site along with property line and road setbacks;
      (3)   The soil borings shall be described to a depth of six feet, or to a
layer where sampling may be inhibited by rock or other impervious layer. The
minimum soil depth described must be at least four feet. Samples that are not
described to a depth of a minimum of four feet shall not be used for
considering land application suitability.
      (4)   Descriptions shall include, but not be limited to, soil type,
texture, structure, and depths to seasonal high water table, and depths to any
layer may inhibit water movement through the soil. Descriptions shall also
contain estimated permeability of each soil profile and varying depths.
      (5)   Comments by the soil scientist on the potential for the proposed
biosolid land application to meet the requirements of Rule 327 IAC 6.1 et seq.
for site specific and non-site specific locations.
   (B)   The County Health Department shall keep a copy of each and every soil
scientist report, for each and every biosolid application site, on file for a
period of not less than five years.
   (C)   A designated County Health Department designee shall review the
material provided and inspect the biosolid application site prior to permit
issuance to assure the minimum requirements as outlined within this subchapter
have been met.
   (D)   After review of the material provided, the Health Department shall
inform the applicant whether an operational permit for biosolid application on
the proposed site can be issued. If conditions preclude the issuance of an
operational permit, the applicant shall be notified in writing detailing the
reasons for the denial.
   (E)   Should any applicant be denied an operational permit through the
Health Department, such applicant may appeal the decision before the County
Board of Health. The decision of the County Board of Health shall be considered
final.
   (F)   Once an operational permit for the application of biosolids has been
issued by the Health Department, the permit holder shall notify the Health
Department at least seven days prior to each proposed application event.
   (G)   The Health Department designee shall take (not receive) a minimum of
two biosolid samples from each and every biosolid container and batch. No
biosolids may be land applied until such samples have been taken. The County
Health Department shall collect and send each and every biosolid sample to an
approved state laboratory for analysis at the cost of such land application
permit holder. The contents of each sample shall comply with all applicable
state and local laws, rules and regulations. The County Health Department shall
provide a copy of the biosolid analysis to the land application permit holder.
If any biosolid sample is found to violate any of the State Department of
Environmental Management's requirements, standards and/or regulations of the
land application permit, the Health Department shall notify the State
Department of Environmental Management of the violation and shall provide a
copy of the sample analysis to the State Department of Environmental
Management. The Health Department shall keep a copy of each and every biosolid
sample analysis on file for a period of not less than five years.
   (H)   The County Health Department designee shall also verify that the
weather and soil conditions at the proposed application time are conducive to
such application. No biosolids shall be applied in the rain, or at any time
where the soil has exceeded its absorptive capacity to the depth of
application. A soil shall have been noted to have exceeded its absorptive
capacity if a ribbon of soil inch in diameter can be rolled within the palms of
the hands and not break apart. This absorptive test shall be conducted over
each area to be used for land application on the day of application. The permit
holder shall document the results of these tests and maintain these records for
each application event.
   (I)   All biosolid applications sites must be at least 660 feet from all
private potable water supplies, state waters, private recreational waters,
springs and residential property lines. Biosolids cannot be land applied to
land which contains slopes in excess of 6% and which slopes toward private
potable water supplies, private recreational waters, springs, drainage ways,
and residential property lines.
   (J)   Each adjoining landowner to the land application site must be
notified, in writing by the land application permit holder, at least seven days
prior to each application of a biosolid.
   (K)   Within 24 hours following a biosolid application, a designated County
Health Department designee shall physically verify that the biosolid has been
incorporated into the soil.
   (L)   Any entity or person that obtains a permit for biosolid application
through the State Department of Environmental Management must conform to all
recommendations listed by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and
Health.
   (M)   Prior to leaving the biosolid application site, the biosolid
application equipment shall be disinfected by the land application permit
holder.
   (N)   All land application sites shall be completely surrounded by a fence
and locking gate of not less than four feet in height. The permit holder shall
be responsible for constructing and maintaining this signage and fencing and
gate. The fence should block site access to children and domestic pets.
Additionally, a sign of not less than two square feet in surface area shall be
placed on the fence at a maximum 400-foot intervals, with a minimum of two
signs per side. The sign lettering shall read, "KEEP OUT. BIOSOLID APPLICATION
SITE."
   (O)   The land application permit holder shall comply with this subchapter
and all other applicable laws, rules and regulations. Only the biosolid land
application permit holder or an employee of the permit holder may land apply
biosolids. The permit holder is strictly prohibited from allowing any person
other than a properly trained employee from land applying biosolids. The permit
holder shall be legally responsible for any and all violations of this
subchapter, and an employee is regarded as an agent or extension of the permit
holder, acting on behalf of the permit holder and therefore the permit holder
shall be considered to be the violator.
   (P)   To the extent of a conflict between this subchapter and any other
state or local law, rule or regulation, the stricter law or regulation shall
govern.
(BC Ord. 3-2002, passed 3-18-02)
§ 50.59 INSPECTIONS OF BIOSOLID APPLICATION SITES.
   Regarding inspections of biosolid application sites, the following apply:
   (A)   The Health Officer or his or her authorized representative, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties at the proper time for purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing necessary to carry out the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The land application permit holder or his or her agent shall place the
request for an on-site inspection of the biosolid application site and/or an
on-site biosolid sampling at least seven days prior to the expected date of the
land application of biosolids.
   (C)   No private biosolid application site shall be covered or placed in
operation until the biosolid application site has been inspected and approved
in writing by the County Health Officer. Such approval shall not constitute a
guarantee of any biosolid application site.
   (D)   The County Health Officer, or his or her designee, may make
inspections to the biosolid application site at the time of biosolid
application to insure compliance with this subchapter.
   (E)   The permit holder shall pay the County Health Department an inspection
fee to cover the cost of inspection and administration of this subchapter and
any related rules, regulations and ordinances. The permit holder shall also pay
the County Health Department for the cost of the biosolid sample analysis. This
fee shall be established by the County Board of Health and shall be subject to
change at the discretion of the County Board of Health.
(BC Ord. 3-2002, passed 3-18-02)
§ 50.60 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Violations of this subchapter shall be considered in two tiers. Tier I
violations shall be considered as minor, non-critical violations. Tier II
violations shall be considered as critical violations. More than two Tier I
violations shall be construed as a single Tier II, or critical violation.
Examples of Tier I violations are, but are not limited to: missing a posted
sign, hole in the fencing, but fence otherwise intact, minor incursion of the
setback requirement, and the like. Examples of Tier II violations are, but are
not limited to: samples taken are in excess of accepted limits, application
during improper soil conditions, gaping holes in the fencing, and the like.
   (B)   If the biosolid land application permit holder or an employee of the
permit holder is found to have any Tier II infraction, they shall be considered
to be in violation of the entire subchapter. Every Tier II violation is a
distinct and separate violation. As an example, if four Tier II provisions are
violated, four separate violations have occurred. The penalties for violations
are as follows:
      (1)   For the first violation, the State Department of Environmental
Management shall be notified in writing by the County Health Department and the
permit holder shall be banned from the land applying biosolids for a period of
not less than six months from the date of such violation;
      (2)   For the second violation, the State Department of Environmental
Management shall be notified in writing by the County Health Department and the
permit holder shall be banned from the land applying biosolids for a period of
not less than 12 months;
      (3)   For the third violation, the State Department of Environmental
Management shall be notified in writing by the County Health Department that
the permit holder is banned from land applying biosolids in the county, and the
county shall also petition the State Department of Environmental Management and
request that the State Department of Environmental Management revoke the
biosolid land application permit; and
      (4)   Fines for each violation shall be imposed in addition to the
penalties above in the amount of $1,000 per each Tier II provision that is
violated plus any and all costs incurred by the county to collect the fine.
Each day that such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(BC Ord. 3-2002, passed 3-18-02)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided, shall be punished for the first offense
by a fine of not more than $500; for the second offense by a fine of not more
than $1,000, and for the third and each subsequent offense by a fine of not
more than $1,000, and each day after the expiration of the time limit for
abating insanitary conditions and completing improvements to abate such
conditions as ordered by the Board of Health, or by the duly appointed Health
Officer of the county, shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(BC Ord. 1-1971, passed 2-15-71)
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the requirements of §
50.02 on cleanup, if any individual person, corporation, or entity shall
violate the provisions of §
50.02 by dumping, or shall do any other act prohibited therein, or shall fail
to comply in any manner with §
50.02 within the time prescribed, then such individual person, corporation or
entity shall be fined in any sum not less than $2,500 per violation.
      (2)   Additionally, in the event the county shall seek relief through a
court order, and it shall be determined that the county is entitled to such
order, the county shall further be entitled to a penalty of $100 per day for
each day the violation existed up to and including the date of such court
order.
(BC Ord. 10-1991, passed 12-16-91)
CHAPTER 51: SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Title
   
51.02   Adoption of state law
   
51.03   Definitions
   
51.04   Jurisdiction
   
51.05   Properties without access to a sanitary sewer system
   
51.06   Properties with access to a sanitary sewer system
   
51.07   Septic tank soil absorption system exemption
   
51.08   Exemptions for large parcels
Requirements for Sewage Disposal
   
51.15   General requirements
   
51.16   Permit requirements
   
51.17   Lot dimensions
   
51.18   Surveys
   
51.19   Subdivisions
   
51.20   Site evaluation
   
51.21   Installation requirements
   
51.22   Construction standards and specifications
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.35   Inspections
   
51.36   Notice of violation
   
51.37   Appeal
   
51.38   Litigation expenses
Disposal Connection
   
51.45   Disposal connection application fee
On-Site Sewage Disposal Installer Registration
   
51.60   Definitions
   
51.61   Applicability
   
51.62   Enforcement
   
51.63   Onsite system permit and inspection fees
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For onsite sewage disposal fees, see §
32.040
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 TITLE.
   The title of this chapter shall be the Dearborn County Sewage Disposal
Ordinance.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.02 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   All laws of the state, as found in the Indiana Code and/or the Indiana
Administrative Code, which pertain to the regulation and disposal of sewage,
and the active rules and regulations of the Indiana State Department of Health,
and unlawful acts relating thereto which are not inconsistent with this chapter
are made a part of this chapter by reference.
   (B)   The sections of this chapter are not to replace state laws, but are to
be considered supplementary and in addition to the laws of the state and are to
be fully enforced where not inconsistent with those laws. Any violation of the
state statute which is an infraction by state law shall also be deemed a
violation of this chapter and may be enforced as an infraction of the same
class of infraction as the state statute.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the definitions of words and phrases used throughout this chapter,
please refer to 410 Indiana Administrative Code 6-8.3-1 through -50, 410
Indiana Administrative Code 6-10.1-1 through -47, I.C. 13-11-2-0.1 through -
270, and I.C. 16-18-2-0.5 through -379.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.04 JURISDICTION.
   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners finds that the terms and
conditions of this chapter are in the best interests of all citizens of
Dearborn County. Therefore, this chapter shall be in full force and effect in
both the incorporated and unincorporated parts of Dearborn County.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.05 PROPERTIES WITHOUT ACCESS TO A SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   This section shall apply to properties where there is no access to any
sanitary sewer system within 300 feet of:
      (1)   The property line, if the property is adjacent to a body of water,
including a lake, river, or reservoir;
      (2)   Any part of a subdivision, or land that is divided or proposed to
be divided into lots, whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements, for
the purpose of sale or lease as part of a larger common plan of development or
sale; or
      (3)   For all other properties, the improvement or other structure from
which the sewage or similar waste is discharged.
   (B)   Where a sanitary sewer system is not available, all persons owning or
leasing property shall comply with the following provisions of this chapter for
private sewage disposal systems.
   (C)   Should any defect exist or occur in any private sewage disposal system
or privy which would cause said sewage disposal system or privy to fail to meet
the requirements of this chapter and cause an unsanitary condition, the defect
shall be corrected immediately by the owner or agent of the owner, occupant or
agent of the occupant. Failure to do so shall be a violation of this chapter
and the violator shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in this chapter.
   (D)   At any business building situated within the county which is not
connected to a sanitary sewer system, and no sanitary sewer system is
available, there shall be established, installed and maintained a private
sewage disposal system which shall comply with the standards of the Indiana
State Board of Health, and plans and specifications for said sewage disposal
system shall be submitted to the Indiana State Board of Health for their
acceptance and approval. Final acceptance and inspections shall be made by the
County Health Officer.
   (E)   Each dwelling provided with plumbing fixtures or a receptacle to
create a sanitary flow, where no approved sanitary sewer system is available,
shall be provided with a private sewage disposal system of approved type and
design.
   (F)   Each private sewage disposal system serving a dwelling on an
individual lot shall be properly maintained by the owner. Failure to provide
and properly maintain such a system or to discharge all the sewage from the
premises into a disposal system may be declared a public health nuisance by the
County Health Officer.
   (G)   No private sewage disposal system shall be installed, maintained or
operated on property accessible to a sanitary sewer system as outlined in §
51.06 of this chapter unless granted an exemption under §
51.07 or §
51.08.
   (H)   Any privy situated within the county shall be of the sanitary type and
shall be constructed and maintained in a clean condition so that insects and
rodents cannot enter the vault.
   (I)   Whenever a sanitary sewer system becomes available to property served
by a private sewage disposal system, the owner of such property shall be bound
by §
51.06 of this chapter unless granted an exemption under §
51.07 or §
51.08.
   (J)   The Dearborn County Board of Health shall have the authority to set
reasonable fees for inspections.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.06 PROPERTIES WITH ACCESS TO A SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
51.07 and §
51.08 of this chapter, a regional sewer district may require connection to the
district's sewer system of property producing sewage or similar waste, and
require the discontinuance of use of privies, cesspools, septic tanks, and
similar structures if:
      (1)   There is an available sanitary sewer within 300 feet of:
         (a)   The property line, if the property is adjacent to a body of
water, including a lake, river, or reservoir;
         (b)   Any part of a subdivision, or land that is divided into lots,
whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements, for the purpose of sale
or lease as part of a larger common plan of development or sale; or
         (c)   For all other properties, the improvement or structure from
which the sewage or similar waste is discharged.
      (2)   The district has given written notice by certified mail to the
property owner at the address of the property at least 90 days before a date
for connection to be stated in the notice; and
      (3)   If the property is located outside the district's territory:
         (a)   The district has obtained and provided to the property owner
(along with the notice required by division (A)(2)) a letter of recommenda tion
from the local health department that there is a possible threat to the
public's health; and
         (b)   If the property is also located within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of a municipal sewage works under I.C. 36-9-23 or a public
sanitation department under I.C. 36-9-25, the municipal public works board or
department of public sanitation has acknowledged in writing that the property
is within the municipal sewage works or department of public sanitation's
extraterritorial jurisdiction, but the municipal works board or department of
public sanitation is unable to provide sewer service.
      (4)   However, a district may not require the owner of a property
described in this division to connect to a municipal or non-municipal sewer
system if the property is already connected to a sewer system that has received
an NPDES permit and has been determined to be functioning satisfactorily.
   (B)   Wherever a new business building or subdivision is developed in an
area where a sanitary sewer line is within 300 feet of the nearest property
line, a connection shall be made to said sanitary sewer line.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.07 SEPTIC TANK SOIL ABSORPTION SYSTEM EXEMPTION.
   (A)   As defined by I.C. 13-11-2-199.5, SEPTIC TANK SOIL ABSORPTION SYSTEM
for purposes of this section, means pipes laid in a system of trenches or
elevated beds, into which the effluent from the septic tank is discharged for
soil absorption, or similar structures.
   (B)   Subject to division (D), a property owner is exempt from the
requirement to connect to a district's sewer system and to discontinue use of a
septic tank soil absorption system if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The property owner's septic tank soil absorption system was new at
the time of installation and was approved in writing by the Health Department;
      (2)   The property owner, at the property owner's expense, obtains a
written determination from the Health Department or its designee that the
septic tank soil absorption system is not failing. The Health Department or its
designee shall provide the owner with a written determination not later than 60
days after receipt of the owner's request. If the Health Department or its
designee fails to provide a written determination within 60 days, the owner, at
the owner's expense, may obtain a written determination from a qualified
inspector. If the Health Department or its designee determines that a septic
tank soil absorption system is failing, the property owner may appeal the
determination to the Dearborn County Board of Health. The decision of the board
is final and binding.
      (3)   Within the time limits set forth in division (F), the property
owner provides the district with:
         (a)   The written notification of potential qualification for the
exemption described in division (F); and
         (b)   The written determination described in division (A)(2);
   (C)   If a property owner, within the time allowed under division (F),
notifies a district that the property owner qualifies for the exemption under
this section, the district shall, until the property owner's eligibility for an
exemption under this section is determined, suspend the requirement that the
property owner discontinue use of a septic tank soil absorption system and
connect to the district's sewer system.
   (D)   A property owner who qualifies for the exemption provided under this
section may not be required to connect to the district's sewer system for a
period of ten years beginning on the date the new septic tank soil absorption
system was installed. A property owner may apply for two five-year extensions
of the exemption provided under this section by following the procedures set
forth in divisions (B) and (C). If ownership of an exempt property is
transferred during a valid exemption period, including during an extension of
an initial exemption:
      (1)   The exemption applies to the subsequent owner of the property for
the remainder of the exemption period during which the transfer occurred; and
      (2)   The subsequent owner may apply for any remaining extensions.
However, the total period during which a property may be exempt from the
requirement to connect to a district's sewer system under this section may not
exceed 20 years, regardless of ownership of the property.
   (E)   A district that has filed plans with the Department of Environmental
Management to create or expand a sewage district shall, within ten days after
filing the plans, provide written notice to affected property owners:
      (1)   That the property owner may be required to discontinue the use of a
septic tank soil absorption system;
      (2)   That the property owner may qualify for an exemption from the
requirement to discontinue the use of the septic tank soil absorption system;
and
      (3)   Of the procedures to claim an exemption.
   (F)   To qualify for an exemption under this section, a property owner must:
      (1)   Within 60 days after the date of the written notice given to the
property owner under division (E), notify the district in writing that the
property owner qualifies for the exemption under this section; and
      (2)   Within 120 days after the district receives the written notice
provided under division (1), provide the district with the written
determination required under division (B)(2).
   (G)   When a property owner who qualifies for an exemption under this
section subsequently discontinues use of the property owner's septic tank soil
absorption system and connects to the district's sewer system, the property
owner may be required to pay only the following to connect to the sewer system:
      (1)   The connection fee the property owner would have paid if the
property owner connected to the sewer system on the first date the property
owner could have connected to the sewer system.
      (2)   Any additional costs:
         (a)   Considered necessary by; and
         (b)   Supported by documentary evidence provided by;
the district.
   (H)   A property owner who connects to a district's sewer system may
provide, at the owner's expense, labor, equipment, materials, or any
combination of labor, equipment, and materials from any source to accomplish
the connection to the sewer system, subject to inspection and approval by the
Board of Health or its designee.
   (I)   This section does not affect the authority of the State Department of
Health, the Dearborn County Board of Health, the Dearborn County Health
Department, or a County Health Officer with respect to a septic tank soil
absorption system.
   (J)   The Dearborn County Board of Health shall have the authority to set
reasonable fees for inspections.
   (K)   For purposes of this section, a septic tank soil absorption system is
"failing" if one or more of the following apply:
      (1)   The system refuses to accept sewage at the rate of design
application and interferes with the normal use of plumbing fixtures.
      (2)   Effluent discharge exceeds the absorptive capacity of the soil into
which the system discharges, resulting in ponding, seepage, or other discharge
of the effluent to the ground surface or to surface waters.
      (3)   Effluent discharged from the system contaminates a potable water
supply, ground water, or surface waters.
   (L)   As used in this section, "qualified inspector" means any of the
following:
      (1)   An employee of the Health Department who is designated by the
Health Department as having sufficient knowledge of onsite sewage systems to
determine if an onsite sewage system is failing.
      (2)   An individual who is certified by the Indiana Onsite Wastewater
Professionals Association as an onsite sewage system installer or inspector.
      (3)   An individual listed by the State Department of Health or a local
health department with jurisdiction over the service area of the property
inspected as having sufficient knowledge of onsite sewage systems to determine
if an onsite sewage system is failing.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.08 EXEMPTIONS FOR LARGE PARCELS.
   A district may not require the owner of a property described in §
51.06(A) of this chapter to connect to the district's sewer system if:
   (A)   The property is located on at least ten acres;
   (B)   The owner can demonstrate the availability of at least two acres on
the property for the collection and treatment of sewage that will protect human
health and the environment;
   (C)   The waste stream from the property is limited to domestic sewage from
a residence or business;
   (D)   The system used to collect and treat the domestic sewage has a maximum
design flow of 750 gallons per day; and
   (E)   The owner, at the owner's expense, obtains and provides to the
district a certification from the Health Department or its designee that the
system is functioning satisfactorily.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
REQUIREMENTS FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.15 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All sewage disposal systems in Dearborn County, in both the incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the County, must comply with the following provisions
of the Indiana Code and the Indiana Administrative Code (which are incorporated
into this chapter herein by reference and which may be amended by the State of
Indiana from time to time):
   (A)   I.C. § 13-26 (Regional Water, Sewage, and Solid Waste Districts);
   (B)   I.C. § 16-20 (Local Health Departments);
   (C)   410 Indiana Administrative Code 6-8.3 (Residential On-Site Sewage
Systems);
   (D)   410 Indiana Administrative Code 6-10.1 (Commercial On-Site Sewage
Systems).
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Before commencement of construction of any private residence or
business building where a private sewage disposal system is proposed, the owner
or the agent of the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Health Officer. The application for such a permit shall be made on a form
provided by the Dearborn County Health Department. Such application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications and other information as may be
deemed necessary by the Health Officer. The plan shall also show the following:
      (1)   Location of proposed sewage disposal system or changes to existing
system;
      (2)   Location of any existing or proposed source of water supply and
water service lines on the subject property; and
      (3)   Location of water supply sources, water service lines, sewage
disposal systems within 300 feet of the subject property (for commercial sewage
disposal systems) or 200 feet of the subject property (for residential sewage
disposal systems).
   (B)   The fee for the sewage disposal system shall be in accordance with the
most recent fee ordinance as established by the Dearborn County Council.
   (C)   If the sewage disposal system has not been constructed, installed,
altered or extended within one year from the date of issuance, the permit shall
automatically expire.
   (D)   The Dearborn County Board of Health shall deny a permit if the
information on the application is incomplete, inaccurate or indicates that the
provisions of the Indiana Code, the Indiana Administrative Code, and/or chapter
cannot be met.
   (E)   A permit issued for a residential or commercial sewage disposal system
shall not become effective until the installation is completed in compliance
with the standards set forth in the Indiana Code, the Indiana Administrative
Code, and/or this chapter, its incorporated references and in the proposed
design of the system.
   (F)   The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
building where the sewage disposal system is under construction. The permit
shall be plainly visible from the public thoroughfare serving the building.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 LOT DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Lots created after the passage of this chapter, on which residential
or commercial sewage disposal systems are to be installed, shall be a minimum
of one acre, or 43,560 square feet in size, and suitable topography to permit
compliance with this chapter, provided, however, that all lot sizes shall
comply with the minimum requirements of all applicable zoning regulations.
   (B)   There shall be sufficient area to provide for the complete replacement
of the leaching system, if the primary leaching system should fail.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 SURVEYS.
   Surveys that meet the minimum requirements of this chapter shall be
submitted to the Dearborn County Health Department for a site evaluation under
the provisions of this chapter. A letter indicating the Health Officer's
requirements or recommendations shall be sent to the owner, or agent of the
owner, of the property.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.19 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   All plats for subdivisions proposing to utilize on-site sewage
disposal systems for wastewater treatment shall be submitted to the Dearborn
County Board of Health for approval of the proposed system or systems before
any construction may begin on the property.
   (B)   If individual water supply and/or private sewage disposal systems are
proposed, the plat shall contain all pertinent information relative to the
installation of these systems. Therefore, to assist in determining the
feasibility of installing individual sewage disposal systems, the plat shall
show the following:
      (1)   Location of water supply, well and sewage disposal systems on
subject lot and adjoining lots;
      (2)   Lot size and soil types encountered on each lot;
      (3)   Location of flowing streams, storm sewers and drainage ditches.
   (C)   Soil survey and mapping by the Soil Conservation Service, United
States Department of Agriculture, may be substituted for the soil information
requirements.
   (D)   If individual sewage disposal systems or individual water supply
systems, or both, are proposed, the plat shall contain all pertinent
information relative to the installation of these systems.
   (E)   The proposed subdivision shall be served by extension of the existing
sanitary sewer system or by a community sewerage system that is within 300 feet
of the nearest lot.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 SITE EVALUATION.
   (A)   Properties of the soil profile of each site shall be evaluated using
the guidelines as set forth in the soil manuals and handbooks of the Soil
Conservation Service, United States Department of Agriculture. A registered
soil scientist shall provide a soil report to the Dearborn County Health
Department. Please note that "percolation tests" are no longer a valid method
to determine soil suitability.
   (B)   Subsurface absorption fields shall not be constructed in soils in
which a seasonal high ground water level, bed rock or a limiting layer exists
within 24 inches of the proposed trench bottom for 450 gallons per day or less
and 30 inches of the proposed trench bottom for more than 450 gallons per day.
A greater distance may be required by the Health Officer where aquifers are in
danger of contamination.
   (C)   No absorption field lateral shall be installed in unstable ground such
as fill.
   (D)   Roof, foundation and storm drains shall not discharge into nor upon
subsurface absorption systems.
   (E)   There shall be no construction of any kind, including but not limited
to driveways, covering any portion of a residential sewage disposal system. The
connecting sewers between the building and the septic tank (building sewer),
the septic tank and the distribution box and the absorption lines may be
installed under driveways, if the sewer is constructed of cast iron or other
material, as may be approved by the Indiana State Department of Health.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Soil Conservation Service, United States Department of
Agriculture, in cooperation with Purdue University Agricultural Experiment
Station, has identified, classified and mapped the soils within Dearborn
County. The three classifications developed by the Soil Conservation Service to
describe limitations present within different soil types for on-site sewage
disposal systems are slight, moderate and severe. As most soils in Dearborn
County are rated severe, this means that the limitations are severe enough to
require extreme measures to overcome soil limitations in Dearborn County. As
such, a soil report must be provided to the Dearborn County Health Department
by a registered soil scientist.
   (B)   Where any lot or parcel in Dearborn County proposes to utilize an on-
site sewage disposal system, the homeowner shall, at the discretion of the
Health Officer, or his or her agent, be required to install certain alternative
sewage disposal systems. The following minimum requirements are based on
current technology necessary to satisfy the provisions of Section 3, General
Requirements, Subsection 3.5 of the Indiana State Department of Health, and 410
Indiana Administrative Code 6-8.3. Consistently changing technology, based upon
additional research, may dictate additional requirements to overcome the
limiting factor found in certain soils. "Technology new to Indiana" or "TNI",
as defined by 410 Indiana Administrative Code 6-8.3-50, may be permitted if
approved by the Indiana State Department of Health. Minimum requirements are as
follows:
      (1)   The minimum square footage of the absorption field shall be 500 sq.
ft. per bedroom with a minimum absorption area size of 1,000 sq. ft.
         (a)   Outbuildings for personal use with no bedrooms or bedroom
equivalents may be able to connect to the homeowner's existing system at the
discretion of the Health Officer or his or her agent. Outbuildings for personal
use which cannot connect to the homeowner's existing system shall conform to
the minimum requirement of 1,000 sq. ft. absorption area size.
         (b)   Outbuildings for personal use with a bedroom or a bedroom
equivalent shall be added to the total number of bedrooms or bedroom
equivalents for the dwelling.
      (2)   Artificially enhanced or natural drainage shall be installed around
the absorption field according to the requirements set forth by the Indiana
State Department of Health and as found in 410 Indiana Administrative Code 6-
8.3.
      (3)   No absorption field shall be constructed during periods of
precipitation or when soil conditions do not meet installation requirements.
      (4)   Excess scraping and/or removal of top soil in the area of the
absorption field shall be prohibited.
   (C)   If the project engineer and/or land surveyor determines that there are
other acceptable alternatives to the minimum on-site sewage disposal system to
overcome any soil limitation, he or she may recommend an alternative. Such
recommendation shall state the limitations found and recommend the alternative
system to overcome this situation. Any alternative system must be acceptable to
the Health Officer after consultation with the Indiana State Department of
Health.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The construction standards and specifications for all building sewers,
septic tanks, connection pipes, distribution boxes, subsurface absorption
fields, and alternative systems shall be in accordance with the minimum
requirements as found in I.C. 13-26, I.C. 16-20, 410 Indiana Administrative
Code 6-8.3, and 410 Indiana Administrative Code 6-10.1, as may be amended by
the State of Indiana from time to time. The owner of the subject property is
charged with ensuring the system they are installing meets the minimum
requirements of the applicable state statutes and administrative rules.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.35 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Health Officer or his or her authorized representative bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The owner or his or her agent shall request inspection of the private
sewage disposal system at least 48 hours in advance of expected time of
completion.
   (C)   No private sewage disposal system shall be covered or placed in
operation until the system has been inspected and approved in writing by the
Health Officer. Such approval shall not constitute a guarantee of any system.
   (D)   The Health Officer may make inspections during the course of
construction of the private sewage disposal system to insure compliance with
this chapter and the applicable state statutes and administrative rules.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.36 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the Dearborn County Board of Health, or the duly appointed Health
Officer, with a written order stating the nature of the violation and providing
a time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.37 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Health Officer may request
and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Dearborn County Board
of Health, provided that the person shall file in the office of the Dearborn
County Health Department, within ten days after service of the notice, a
written petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement of
the grounds thereof. Upon receipt of such petition, the Health Officer shall
arrange a time and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner written
notice thereof. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity
to be heard and show cause why he or she should not comply with such order.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.38 LITIGATION EXPENSES.
   Any person found in violation of this chapter by a court of competent
jurisdiction shall be liable to the Dearborn County Board of Health for any
litigation expenses including, but not limited to, engineering expenses,
transportation expenses, witness fees and attorneys fees.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
DISPOSAL CONNECTION
§ 51.45 DISPOSAL CONNECTION APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners hereby approve the request
of the Dearborn County Health Department to establish a sanitary sewage
disposal connection application fee as determined by ordinance of the Dearborn
County Council.
   (B)   The Dearborn County Health Department may collect the fees for the
processing of these applications.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL INSTALLER REGISTRATION
§ 51.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLUSTER OSDS. An OSDS shared by two or more residences, two or more
commercial facilities, or any combination thereof.
   COMMERCIAL FACILITY. Commercial facility means any building or place not
used exclusively as a residence. A commercial facility includes, but is not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   An office building;
      (2)   Manufacturing facility;
      (3)   Multi-family residence (apartment, multiplex, townhouse, or
condominium);
      (4)   Hotel or motel;
      (5)   Restaurant;
      (6)   School facility;
      (7)   Church facility;
      (8)   Child care facility;
      (9)   Long term care facility;
      (10)   Hospital facility;
      (11)   Correctional facility;
      (12)   State facility;
      (13)   Mobile home park;
      (14)   Campground; and
      (15)   Any grouping of residences served by a cluster OSDS.
   COMMERCIAL OSDS. OSDS for a commercial facility.
   DISTRIBUTION BOX. Distribution box shall mean a device designed to equally
distribute effluent by gravity from an inlet pipe to outlet pipes.
   DIVERTER DEVICE. A valve or device that directs effluent from one gravity
soil absorption field to another gravity soil absorption field.
   DOSE TANK. A watertight structure into which septic tank effluent discharges
for collection and pumping to a soil absorption field.
   DRAIN, INTERCEPTOR. A part of an OSDS subsurface drainage system that is
used to control the seasonal high water table of the soil. It is designed to
intercept and remove excess water from the soil on the upslope side of an OSDS
soil absorption field.
   DRAIN, PERIMETER. The part of an OSDS subsurface drainage system that is
used to control the season high water table of the soil. It is designed to
surround an OSDS soil absorption field to intercept and remove excess water
from the soil.
   DRAIN SEGMENT. That part of an OSDS subsurface drainage system that is used
to control the seasonal high water table of the soil. It is installed between
trenches in an OSDS soil absorption field, in conjunction with a perimeter
drain, to intercept and remove excess water from the soil.
   DRAIN, SUBSURFACE OSDS. A subsurface drainage system that is used to control
the seasonal high water table of the soil in an OSDS soil absorption field.
OSDS subsurface drains include perimeter drains, interceptor drains, drain
segments, and that portion of the subsurface drain up to the point of entry
into an existing subsurface drain or to the point of surface discharge.
   EFFLUENT. Sewage that has received treatment from a septic tank, or other
approved means, before treatment in the soil.
   LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT. As defined in I.C. 16-18-2-211, a department
organized by a county or city executive with a board, a health officer, and an
operational staff to provide health services to a county, city, or multiple
county unit.
   ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM or OSDS. All equipment and devices necessary
for proper conduction, collection, storage, treatment, and on-site disposal of
sewage from a residence or commercial facility. Included within, but not
limited to, the scope of this definition are the following:
      (1)   Pipes;
      (2)   Septic tanks;
      (3)   Treatment devices;
      (4)   Diverter devices;
      (5)   Distribution boxes;
      (6)   Dose tanks;
      (7)   Effluent pumps;
      (8)   Controls;
      (9)   Valves;
      (10)   Audiovisual alarms;
      (11)   Soil absorption fields;
      (12)   Dispersal area;
      (13)   Surface diversions; and
      (14)   OSDS subsurface drains.
   ON-SITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (OSDS) INSTALLER. Any person engaged in the
construction, installation, repair, or replacement of any component of an OSDS.
   OSDS REPAIR. The repair or replacement of any OSDS component other than the
replacement or expansion of a soil absorption field.
   OSDS REPLACEMENT. The replacement or expansion of a soil absorption field.
   OWNER. The deed holder of record for the subject property.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, company, firm,
association, society, holding company, trust, trustee, estate, school
corporation, school district, any unit of government, or any other legal
entity, its or their successors or assigns, or agent of the aforesaid.
   RESIDENTIAL OSDS. OSDS for a residence.
   SEPTIC TANK. A watertight structure into which sewage discharges for
settling and anaerobic solids digestion.
   SEWAGE. All water-carried waste derived from ordinary living processes.
   SOIL ABSORPTION FIELD. Effluent distribution pipes laid in a system of
trenches or elevated beds served directly by the same distribution box or
manifold, into which effluent discharges for soil absorption.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.61 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Upon adoption of this chapter, no person shall construct, install,
replace, alter, or repair any part of an OSDS without being registered with the
Dearborn County Health Department.
   (B)   Any person engaged in the construction of OSDS in Dearborn County
shall be knowledgeable and capable of following all laws, rules, and
regulations of both the State of Indiana and Dearborn County governing OSDS
during all phases of construction.
   (C)   Any person engaged in the construction, installation, replacement,
alteration, or repair of OSDS in Dearborn County shall be registered as an OSDS
installer with the Dearborn County Health Department. Registration shall
consist of, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   A completed application for registration with payment of the
application fee;
      (2)   An application fee as established by ordinance of the Dearborn
County Council;
      (3)   Passing a written proficiency examination conducted by the Dearborn
County Health Department;
         (a)   The examination shall be in different parts; gravity feed OSDS,
flood dose OSDS, mound type OSDS, or types of systems as may be approved by the
Indiana State Department of Health;
         (b)   An applicant may take the written examination on any or all
different parts;
         (c)   The examination shall be reviewed from time to time to determine
applicability to current laws, rules, regulations, and ordinances. A score of
80% or higher on each part will be considered passing;
         (d)   An applicant shall be registered for the installation of OSDS in
accordance with successful completion of examination parameters;
         (e)   When taking a written examination is not feasible due to
language, reading, or other difficulties, a verbal (oral) examination may be
permissible;
         (f)   If an applicant fails to pass any part of the examination, the
applicant may re-apply for registration no earlier than one month following the
failed examination.
   (D)   Registration issued hereunder shall be valid for a term of one year
beginning January 1 and expiring December 31 of the same year, and shall be
renewed annually. The registration shall bear the name, address, associated
firm or company where applicable, and the expiration date.
   (E)   An OSDS installer may supervise other construction workers as
necessary to assist in the installation of an OSDS.
   (F)   An OSDS installer shall be on the site at all times during the
construction, installation, replacement or repair of an OSDS.
   (G)   Registrations issued hereunder shall not be transferable.
   (H)   Registrations may be renewed without re-examination if the applicant
can provide documentation of attendance at Indiana State Department of Health
or Dearborn County Health Department meetings dealing with the type of
registration renewal being sought.
   (I)   Applicants for OSDS installer registration unable to provide
documentation, as noted above, must successfully complete the examination for
that portion of renewal being sought.
   (J)   The OSDS installer shall maintain his or her possession of a copy of
the certification at all times when constructing, installing, replacing, or
repairing any portion of an OSDS located in Dearborn County.
   (K)   A property owner wishing to construct, install, replace, or otherwise
work on the OSDS serving his or her property shall be required to demonstrate
knowledge of the applicable laws, rules, and regulations by successful
completion of the proficiency examination conducted by the Dearborn County
Health Department. Application fees for these purposes shall be waived.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.62 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any OSDS installer, as defined in §
51.60, and registered under §
51.61, found to be in violation of any provision of this chapter, any state
statute, administrative rule, or the applicable rules and regulations of the
Indiana State Department of Health shall receive notice of the violation. Upon
receiving said notification, the OSDS installer shall correct the violation
within the time frame as specified by the Health Officer or his or her agent.
   (B)   If the violation is not corrected within the specified time frame, the
Health Officer, or his or her agent, may suspend or revoke the OSDS installer
registration. If the registration is suspended, the OSDS installer may be
reinstated by the Health Officer, or his or her agent, upon successful
correction of all violations. If the registration is revoked, the requirements
for becoming registered including re-examination and payment of the application
fee shall apply prior to re-registration. Re-registration shall not occur until
all outstanding violations are corrected.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
§ 51.63 ONSITE SYSTEM PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM or ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
(OSDS) means all equipment and devices necessary for proper conduction,
collection, storage, treatment, and onsite disposal of sewage from other than
one-family or two-family dwellings, except where such dwellings are connected
to a cluster system. However, an onsite sewage system serving two single-family
dwellings on the same property, with a combined daily design flow (DDF) of less
than or equal to 750 gallons per day, is a residential onsite sewage system,
not a commercial onsite sewage system. Included within, but not limited to, the
scope of this definition are building sewers, grease traps, septic tanks,
dosing tanks, absorption fields, perimeter drains, vault privies, and temporary
sewage holding tanks serving such facilities as the following:
         (a)   Apartment buildings;
         (b)   Campgrounds;
         (c)   Churches;
         (d)   Commercial establishments;
         (e)   Condominiums;
         (f)   Medical facilities;
         (g)   Mobile home parks;
         (h)   Motels;
         (i)   Office buildings;
         (j)   Restaurants; and
         (k)   Schools.
      COMMERCIAL ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM PERMIT.  A permit for the installation of
a commercial onsite sewage system.
      COMMERCIAL ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM REPAIR PERMIT. A permit for the
installation of a commercial onsite sewage system repair.
      COMMERCIAL ONSITE SYSTEM REPLACEMENT PERMIT. A permit for the
installation of a commercial onsite sewage system replacement.
      DISPOSAL CONNECTION APPLICATION FEE. The fee for department staff to
verify arrangements for a sanitary sewer connection has been secured by the
applicant as per BC Ordinance 3-1997.
      EXISTING ONSITE SYSTEM PERFORMANCE REVIEW. The review of an existing
onsite sewage disposal system (OSDS), at the request of the applicant, for its
ability to meet the Rules and Regulations of Indiana and to comply with the
requirements of a Regional Sewer District or similar agency.
      INITIAL SITE VISIT FOR ONSITE SYSTEM INSTALLATION REVIEW. The initial
site visit request by an applicant for the installation of a new, repair, or
replacement onsite sewage disposal system. This term shall also apply for the
initial site visit request for verification that a proposed outbuilding or
residential or commercial expansion location does not interfere with the
existing onsite system.
      ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL INSTALLER. Any person engaged in the construction,
installation, repair, or replacement of any component of an onsite sewage
disposal system (OSDS).
      ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (OSDS) REPAIR. The repair or replacement of
any OSDS component other than the replacement or expansion of a soil absorption
field.
      ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (OSDS) REPLACEMENT. The replacement or
expansion of a soil absorption field.
      REGISTERED ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL INSTALLER. An onsite sewage disposal
installer who has completed an application and has passed a written proficiency
test as administered by the department.
      REGISTERED ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL INSTALLER ANNUAL FEE. The annual fee
for a registered onsite sewage disposal installer starting on January 1 of the
year of registration and ending on December 31 of the year of registration.
      RESIDENTIAL ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM or ONSITE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SYSTEM (OSDS). All equipment and devices necessary for proper conduction,
collection, storage, treatment, and onsite disposal of sewage from:
         (a)   A one- or two-family dwelling;
         (b)   A residential outbuilding; or
         (c)   Two single-family dwellings on the same property with a combined
daily design flow (DDF) of less than or equal to 750 gallons per day. The term
includes, but is not limited to, residential sewers, septic tanks, soil
absorption systems, temporary sewage holding tanks, and sanitary vault privies.
      RESIDENTIAL ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM PERMIT. A permit for the installation of
a residential onsite sewage system.
      RESIDENTIAL ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM REPAIR PERMIT. A permit for the
installation of a residential onsite sewage system repair.
      RESIDENTIAL ONSITE SEWAGE SYSTEM REPLACEMENT PERMIT. A permit for the
installation of a residential onsite sewage system replacement.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   $200 - Residential Onsite System Permit.
      (2)   $200 - Commercial Onsite System Permit.
      (3)   $100 - Residential Onsite System Repair Permits.
      (4)   $100 - Residential Onsite System Replacement Permits.
      (5)   $200 - Commercial Onsite System Repair Permits.
      (6)   $200 - Commercial Onsite System Replacement Permit.
      (7)   $75 - Registered Onsite Installer Annual Fee.
      (8)   $25 - Disposal Connection Application Fee.
      (9)   $25 - Initial Site Visit for Onsite System Installation Review.
      (10)   $200 - Existing Onsite System Performance Review.
   (C)   Unconstitutionality clause. Should any section, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase of this section be declared unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby. All
ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this section are hereby
repealed, and this section shall be in full force and effect after its adoption
and publication as provided by law.
(BC Ord. 2022-007, passed 6-7-22)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction. On conviction, this violator shall be punished for the
first offense by a fine of not more than $500, for the second offense, by a
fine of not more than $1,000, and for the third and each subsequent offense, by
a fine of not more than $1,500. Each day after the expiration of the time limit
for abating insanitary conditions and completing improvements to abate such
conditions as ordered by the Health Officer shall constitute a distinct and
separate offense.
(BC Ord. 2017-010, passed 9-19-17)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Speed limits on county roads
   
70.02   Vehicle weight limitations
   
70.03   Weight limits during certain times of year
   
70.04   Off-road vehicles
   
70.05   Obstructions on county road right-of-ways
   
70.06   Traffic control signs and signals
   
70.07   Recreational off-highway vehicles
   
70.08   Golf carts
   
70.09   Regulation of truck traffic on county roads
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Striking domestic dog with motor vehicle, see §
90.38
   Vehicle inspection fee, see §
31.01
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS ON COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a county highway at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the
actual and potential hazards then existing. In every event speed shall be so
restricted as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person, or vehicle
or their conveyance on or near, or entering a county highway in compliance with
legal requirements and with the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   Except when a special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with division (A) of this section, the limit specified in this
section or established as hereinafter authorized shall be maximum lawful speed,
and no person shall drive a vehicle on a county highway at a speed in excess of
such maximum limits:
      (1)   Forty miles per hour on any hard surface county highway. (Hard
surface being any concrete, asphalt or other form thereof.)
      (2)   Thirty miles per hour on any gravel, dirt, or other aggregate
material highway.
      (3)   Twenty miles per hour on any unincorporated subdivision roadway
accepted for maintenance by the Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   Twenty-five miles per hour in any established school zone with
children present.
      (5)   The maximum speed limits set forth in this section may be altered
as authorized in division (D) below of this section.
   (C)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements in
division (A), drive at an appropriate reduced speed when approaching and
crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway, and when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians
or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
   (D)   Whenever the Board of Commissioners determines that any maximum speed
hereinbefore set forth is greater or less that is reasonable or safe under the
conditions found to exist at any intersection or other place or on any part of
the county highway system, said commissioners may determine and declare a
reasonable and safe maximum limit thereon, which shall be effective when
appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected. Such maximum speed limits
may be declared to be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated
on said signs.
(BC Ord. passed 4-20-87) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits designated on specific roads, see
Ch. 71, Schedule I
§ 70.02 VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated or moved upon county
highways or bridges designated in
Schedules II and
III of
Chapter 71 any vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight exceeding
the limitations provided herein.
   (B)   An owner of a vehicle shall not cause or knowingly permit to be
operated upon or moved upon any of the county highways or bridges designated in
Schedules II and
III of
Chapter 71 any vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight exceeding
the limitations provided herein.
   (C)   Weight limitations for the highways designated in
Schedule II are as follows:
      (1)   The total gross weight, with load, in pounds of any vehicle or
combination of vehicles may not exceed an overall gross weight on a group of
two or more consecutive axles produced by application of the following formula:
(3)   W = 500 {'{'}[LN] ÷ [(N-1)] + 12N + 36{'}'}
   where W equals the overall gross weight on any group of two or more
consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the distance in feet
between the extreme of any group of two or more consecutive axles, and N equals
the number of axles in the group under consideration, except that two
consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross load of 34,000 pounds each,
providing the overall distance between the first and last axles of the
consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more. The overall gross weight
limit, calculated under this subdivision, may not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (2)   The weight concentrated on the roadway surface from any tandem axle
group may not exceed the following:
         (a)   Thirty-four thousand pounds total weight.
         (b)   Twenty thousand pounds on an individual axle in a tandem group.
      (3)   A vehicle may not have a maximum wheel weight, unladen or with
load, in excess of 800 pounds per inch width of tire, measured between the
flanges of the rim or an axle weight in excess of 20,000 pounds.
   (D)   The enforcement of weight limits under this section is subject to the
following:
      (1)   A vehicle or combination of vehicles that transports farm
commodities from the place of production to the first point of delivery where
the commodities are weighed and title to the commodity is transferred if the
weight of the vehicle with load or combination of vehicles with load does not
exceed the gross weight limits set forth in this section by more than 10%. This
exception does not apply, however, to weight limits imposed for bridges under
this section. For purposes of this section, "farm commodities" includes logs,
wood chips, bark, sawdust and bulk milk. The exceptions that apply to vehicles
that transfer farm commodities herein apply to the transportation of wood
chips, bark and sawdust, at all times, if the weight of the vehicle with loads
does not exceed either the gross weight limit or the axle weight limit by more
than 10%.
      (2)   The greater of the weight limits imposed under division (3) above
or this subsection applies to vehicles operated upon county highways. These
weight limits shall be as follows:
         (a)   The total gross weight, with load, in pounds of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may not exceed 73,280 pounds.
         (b)   The total weight concentrated on the roadway surface from a
tandem axle group may not exceed 16,000 pounds from each axle of a tandem
assembly.
         (c)   A vehicle may not have a maximum wheel weight unladen or with
load in excess of 800 pounds per inch width of tire, measured between the
flanges of the rim or an axle weight greater than 18,000 pounds.
      (3)   This section shall apply to a truck that is either a municipal
waste collection and transportation vehicle: specially designed and equipped
with a self-compactor or detachable container; used exclusively for garbage
refuse or recycling operations; and laden with garbage, refuse or recyclables;
or a disposal plant transporting vehicle certified under I.C. 15-2.1-16 that is
laden with dead animals or animal parts. Such a truck may transmit to the
surface of a highway a gross weight of not more than 24,000 pounds upon a
single axle and 42,000 pounds upon a tandem axle group. Unladen, this truck
must comply with axle limitations applicable to all other trucks. This section
does not exempt trucks laden or unladen from the limitations on wheel weights
imposed in this section.
      (4)   The County Highway Superintendent may, in the exercise of sound
discretion, and upon due application in writing made to him, authorize
operation in excess of the above stated limits on a per truck basis upon a
showing of extraordinary circumstances and upon proof of insurance or other
security adequate to cover potential damage caused by the expected trip.
      (5)   The limits imposed by this section shall not apply to vehicles for
which a valid overweight permit has been issued by the Indiana Department of
Transportation.
   (E)   Weight limitations for bridges are set forth in
Schedule III of
Chapter 71.
   (F)   Revenues generated as a result of fines from enforcement of this
section shall be deposited into a special highway fund which fees and revenues
shall be utilized specifically to maintain and preserve county roads.
   (G)   Revenues generated and deposited in the special highway fund may be
used only for the specific purpose set forth in this section. Said expenditures
shall be limited to improving and maintaining county highways.
   (H)   This section shall be enforced by the County Sheriff's Department.
   (I)   Appropriation by the county fiscal body shall not be required for
expenditures from the special highway fund.
(BC Ord. 10-1996, passed 8-19-96; Am. BC Ord. 1-1999, passed 1-19-99; Am. BC
Ord. 3-1999, passed 1-19-99)
§ 70.03 WEIGHT LIMITS DURING CERTAIN TIMES OF YEAR.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated or moved upon any
county highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles having a gross weight,
including said vehicle and any load being carried, in excess of 75% of the
vehicle weight limitations which would be permitted under §
70.02 or in excess of any posted weight limitations for bridges located on all
highways in the county from February 1 through March 31 or each year.
   (B)   An owner of a vehicle may not cause or knowingly permit it to be
operated or moved upon any county highway an vehicles or combinations of
vehicles having a gross weight, including said vehicle and the load being
carried, in excess of 75% of the vehicle weight limitations set forth in §
70.02 or in excess for any posted weight limitations for bridges located on all
highways in the county from February 1 through March 31 of each year.
   (C)   The County Highway Superintendent may, in the exercise of sound
discretion and upon due application in writing made to him, authorize operation
in excess of the above stated limits on a per trip basis upon a showing of
extraordinary circumstances and upon proof of insurance or other security
adequate to cover potential damage caused by the excepted trip.
   (D)   Revenues generated as a result of fines from enforcement of this
section shall be deposited into a Special Highway Fund which fees and revenues
shall be utilized specifically to maintain and preserve the county roads.
   (E)   Revenues generated and deposited in the Special Highway Fund may be
used only for the specific purpose set forth in this section said expenditures
to be limited to improving and maintaining county highways.
   (F)   This section shall be enforced by the County Sheriff's Department.
    (G)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to vehicles traveling
on Marsh Road between the intersection of U.S. #50 and a point 1,000 feet north
of the intersection of Marsh Road and U.S. #50 and Randall Avenue.
(BC Ord. 5-1997, passed 4-7-97; Am. BC Ord. 1-1999, passed 1-19-99; Am. BC Ord.
3-1999, passed 1-19-99)
§ 70.04 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   Off-road vehicles, as defined by I.C. 14-8-2-185, may use county
roads, outside of the corporate limits of any city or town in accordance with
the laws of the State of Indiana as prescribed in I.C. 14-16-1 with the
exceptions of:
      (1)   Stateline Road;
      (2)   Jamison Road;
      (3)   North Dearborn Road, east of Route 1;
      (4)   Georgetown Road;
      (5)   Bond Road;
      (6)   Sand Run Road;
      (7)   Cole Lane;
      (8)   Whites Hill Road;
      (9)   Harrison- Brookville Road;
      (10)   Salt Fork Road;
      (11)   Jackson Ridge;
      (12)   Pribble Road; and
      (13)   Wilson Creek Road.
   (B)   The prohibited roads listed in division (A) of this section may be
crossed at a 90 degree angle by an off-road vehicle for agricultural and/or
recreational purposes;
   (C)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on a county maintained
public highway without a valid motor vehicles driver’s license pursuant to I.C.
14-16-1-20(c).
   (D)   No other use otherwise prohibited by Indiana law shall be permitted on
county roads, including, but not limited to, the prohibitions found under I.C.
14-16-1-23.
   (E)   A person who operates and off-road vehicle on county roads shall
comply with all the conditions of I.C. 14-16-1, et seq., and, specifically,
with the requirements of I.C. 14-16-1-20.
   (F)   A person who operates a snowmobile on county roads shall comply with
all conditions and requirements of state law.
   (G)   For purposes of this chapter, an “off-road vehicle” shall include the
following:
      (1)   A multiwheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle;
      (2)   An amphibious machine;
      (3)   A ground effect air cushion vehicle:
      (4)   An all-terrain vehicle (as defined by I.C. 14-8-2-5.7); and
      (5)   Other means of transportation deriving motive power from a source
other than muscle or wind; and
   (H)   For purposes of this chapter, an “off-road vehicle” shall not include
the following:
      (1)   A recreational off-highway vehicle (as defined by I.C. 14-8-2-
233.5).
(BC Ord. 2-1999, passed 1-19-99; Am. BC Ord. 2015-014, passed 12-15-15)
§ 70.05 OBSTRUCTIONS ON COUNTY ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAYS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section. OBSTRUCTION shall mean any waste
which, if not properly disposed of, creates a danger to public health, safety,
and/or welfare, impairs the ability of Dearborn County employees to perform
their job functions, and/or impairs the environment of the people of the
county. OBSTRUCTION shall include, but is not limited to: vehicles, trailers,
watercraft, garbage, trash, refuse, debris, brush, tree trimmings, grass
clippings or other lawn or garden waste, paper products, glass, metal, plastic
or paper containers, motor vehicle parts (including tires), furniture, posts,
railroad ties, concrete blocks, brick/stone walls, carcasses of dead animals,
or any other waste material of an unsightly, unsanitary, nauseous, dangerous,
and/or offensive nature.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity in charge of or in
control of or in ownership of any obstruction shall cause, allow, or permit
said obstruction to be left on the trafficked portions of any county rights-of-
way for any length of time.
   (C)   No person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity in charge of or in
control of or in ownership of any obstruction shall cause, allow, or permit
said obstruction to block or restrict in any manner an access, driveway,
easement, intersection, egress, ingress, sidewalk, or interfere with a county
right-of-way, nor impede any government employee in the course of their regular
duties, or cause, allow, or permit said obstruction to be left in the non-
trafficked portions of county rights-of-way for any length of time.
   (D)   Police, postal, fire, EMS, and other governmental employees are hereby
exempt from this section when in the course of their regular duties.
(BC Ord. 2006-2, passed 4-4-06; Am. B.C. Ord. 2006-3, passed 7- 18-06; Am. BC
Ord. 2023-005, passed 4-18-23)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   The Dearborn County Transportation and Engineering Department shall:
      (1)   Conduct traffic engineering studies to determine placement of
regulatory traffic control signs and signals that are reasonably safe and
conform to the Indiana Manual on Traffic Control Devices;
      (2)   Place and maintain regulatory traffic control signs and signals on
roads;
      (3)   Maintain a record of locations of all regulatory traffic control
signs and signals on highways within Dearborn County maintained by the county;
and
      (4)   Notify the Dearborn County Sheriff's Department of locations of all
regulatory traffic control signs and signals on highways within Dearborn County
maintained by the county.
   (B)   The restrictions imposed by signs and signals placed by the Dearborn
County Highway and Engineering Department in compliance with this section and
state law will become effective upon posting of such signs and signals.
   (C)   Any person determined to have violated the regulatory traffic signs
and signals commits a Class C infraction.
(BC Ord. 2010-09, passed 12-7-10)
§ 70.07 RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, recreational off-
highway vehicles (a/k/a “recreational off-road vehicles”, “UTVs”, and/or “side-
by-sides”), as defined by I.C. 14-8-2-233.5, are prohibited from operating on
the following county maintained roads:
      (1)   Stateline Road;
      (2)   Jamison Road;
      (3)   North Dearborn Road east of State Road 1;
      (4)   Georgetown Road;
      (5)   Bond Road;
      (6)   Sand Run Road;
      (7)   Cole Lane;
      (8)   Whites Hill Road;
      (9)    Harrison-Brookville Road;
      (10)   Salt Fork Road;
      (11)   Jackson Ridge;
      (12)   Pribble Road; and
      (13)   Wilson Creek Road;
   (B)   Recreational off-highway vehicles may use all county roads, including
those listed in division (A) of this section, outside of the corporate limits
of any city or town, in accordance with the laws of the State of Indiana as
prescribed in I.C. 14-16-1 under the following conditions:
      (1)   The recreational off-highway vehicle must be properly equipped with
head lights, tail lights, brake lights, and turn signals; and
      (2)   The recreational off-highway vehicles must be capable of operating
at the posted speed limit of the road upon which it is operating;
   (C)   If the recreational off-highway vehicle does not meet the requirements
of division (B) of this section, the prohibited roads listed in division (A) of
this section, may be crossed at a 90° angle by a recreational off-highway
vehicle for agricultural and/or recreational purposes;
   (D)   No person shall operate a recreational off-highway vehicle on a county
maintained public highway without a valid motor vehicle driver’s license
pursuant to I.C. 14-16-1-20(c);
   (E)   No other use prohibited by Indiana law shall be permitting on county
roads, including, but not limited to. the prohibitions found under I.C. 14-16-
1-23; and
   (F)   A person who operates a recreational off-highway vehicle on county
roads shall comply with all the conditions of I.C. 14-16-1 et seq., and,
specifically, with the requirements of I.C. 14-16-1-20.
(BC Ord. 2015-014, passed 12-15-15)
§ 70.08 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   This section is not intended to promote the operation of golf carts on
county maintained public roads. Dearborn County does not recommend or even
endorse the operation of golf carts on its roads. However, many of the citizens
of Dearborn County want to operate golf carts on county roads. All persons
operating golf carts must he attentive to the safety of themselves and others,
including passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. All persons
who operate or ride golf carts on county streets do so at their own peril.
Dearborn County assumes no liability for the operation of golf carts within
Dearborn County based upon this section;
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a GOLF CART is a commercially
manufactured four wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically designed
and intended to transport one or more individuals for the purpose of playing
the game of golf on a golf course and that has not been modified in any fashion
to increase speed;
   (C)   The operation of a golf cart on any public roadways in Dearborn County
is hereby prohibited except as outlined in this section;
   (D)   The operation of a golf cart is permitted between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 11:00 p.m. only in the following situations:
      (1)   Within the municipal boundaries of a city or town that has
specifically authorized the operation of golf carts and only in accordance with
the municipal ordinance authorizing the operation of golf carts; and
      (2)   Within platted subdivisions wherein the speed limit is twenty-five
miles per hour (25 m.p.h.) or less;
   (E)   No person shall operate a golf cart within Dearborn County unless the
operator holds a valid driver’s license;
   (F)   No person shall operate a golf cart with Dearborn County without
financial responsibility. Financial responsibility shall have the same meaning
in this section as it is defined in Indiana Code Title 9. Proof of financial
responsibility shall be in the same manner as provided in I.C. 9-25-4;
   (G)   No person shall operate a golf cart in the unincorporated areas of
Dearborn County unless it is equipped with head lights, tail lights, brake
lights, turn signals, and a slow-moving vehicle placard;
   (H)   No more than two persons, including the operator, may be on a golf
cart while it is in use unless the golf cart is specifically manufactured to
transport more than two occupants;
   (I)   No person shall operate a golf cart within Dearborn County unless the
golf cart is registered with Dearborn County. To register a golf cart, the
owner shall present proof of financial responsibility to the Dearborn County
Highway Department, and pay the registration fee of $50 to Dearborn County
through the Highway Department. The owner must affix the registration sticker
issued by the Highway Department upon the back of the golf cart so that it is
clearly visible from behind. All registrations expire December 31 of each year.
If an owner of a golf cart resides in a municipality that has authorized the
operation of golf carts, they shall register their golf cart with that
municipality;
   (J)   At the time of registration, the owner of the golf cart being
registered must swear or affirm, under penalties for perjury, that the golf
cart they are registering is in compliance with this section. Failure to
maintain compliance with this section shall result in penalties in accordance
with §
70.99(F);
   (K)   Monies collected for golf cart registration shall be deposited in the
Highway Department MVHA Fund.
(BC Ord. 2015-014, passed 12-15-15)
§ 70.09 REGULATION OF TRUCK TRAFFIC ON COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   Truck defined. For the purpose of this section, "truck" means a
vehicle with an overall length of 40 feet or more and includes semitrailer
trucks, the length of the tractor individually, the length of the
trailer individually, and/or a combination of the length of the tractor and the
trailer. The term "truck" includes every self-propelled commercial vehicle 40
feet or more in length used for the transport of goods or property being
operated on any highway, as defined by I.C. 9-13-2-73, in Dearborn County,
Indiana.
   (B)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners, acting through the
authority granted to them by I.C. 8-17-1-40, 9-21-1-2(a), and/or 9-21-1-3(a)
(8), may, by motion, passed at a public meeting, direct the Dearborn County
Highway Department to post signs prohibiting trucks, as defined in §
70.09(A), from utilizing the designated county maintained highway as a thruway
under §
70.09(C) or §
70.09(D).
   (C)   The Dearborn County Highway Department may request that the
prohibition authorized in §
70.09(B) be for a specific period of time. Once the period of time has elapsed,
the prohibition will expire automatically and the Dearborn County Highway
Department shall remove any signage noting the prohibition as soon as
reasonably possible. Should the Dearborn County Highway Department believe that
the prohibition should be extended, a representative from the Dearborn County
Highway Department will request this extension at a public meeting of the
Dearborn County Board of Commissioners. Such extension may be authorized by the
passage of a motion by the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners to that
effect.
   (D)   If the Dearborn County Highway Department believes that the
prohibition should be a permanent prohibition, rather than temporary as
outlined in §
70.09(C), such prohibition must be passed by ordinance of the Dearborn County
Board of Commissioners. Any removal of a permanent prohibition may only be done
by passage of an ordinance of the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-3(b), upon the passage of such a motion or
Ordinance, the prohibition " ... is effective when signs giving notice of the
local traffic regulations are posted upon or at the entrances to the highway or
part of the highway that is affected."
   (F)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-7, any prohibition adopted by the Dearborn
County Board of Commissioners does not apply to a person, team, motor vehicle,
and other equipment actually engaged in work on the surface of a highway;
      (2)   Any prohibition adopted by the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners does not apply to an "authorized emergency vehicle" as defined by
I.C. 9-13-2-6;
      (3)   Any prohibition adopted by the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners does not prohibit the necessary local operation of trucks, as
defined by §
70.09(A), from operation on any county maintained highways for the purpose of
picking up and/or delivering materials on the county maintained highway;
      (4)   Any prohibition adopted by the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners does not apply to vehicles operating upon tracks, common carriers
of public passengers, school buses being utilized by an Indiana school
corporation or private school, service vehicles operated by a public utility,
or vehicles operated by the State of Indiana, Dearborn County, or contractors
of the State of Indiana or Dearborn County.
   (G)   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be subject
to the penalties outlined in §
70.99(G) of the Dearborn County Code of Ordinances. Pursuant to I.C. 9-21-1-2
(b), any fines collected pursuant to §
70.99(G) shall be deposited into the Dearborn County General Fund.
   (H)   In addition to the temporary or permanent prohibitions authorized by
this section, the Dearborn County Highway Department is authorized to post
warning signs on any county maintained roads that it deems appropriate in an
effort to warn truck traffic not to use certain roads because of sharp curves,
steep climbs, narrow roadways, narrow bridges, school bus traffic, and/or other
potentially hazardous conditions. These signs are not meant to prohibit the
truck traffic, but rather to warn the truck drivers that certain roads may not
be safe for truck traffic, even if truck traffic has not been officially
prohibited on the county maintained roads in question.
(BC Ord. 2019-005, passed 4-23-19)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §
70.01 or
Chapter 71, Schedule I, shall be fined not more than $25 nor less than $10 for
each offense. (BC Ord. passed 4-20-87)
   (B)   Violation of §
70.02 or
Chapter 71, Schedules II or
III shall be punishable as follows:
      (1)   For vehicles overweight between zero and 4,000 pounds, a fine of
$300;
      (2)   For vehicles 4,000 pounds overweight or greater, a fine of $500
plus an additional $100 fine for each pounds or portion thereof above 4,000
pounds overweight up to a maximum fine of $2,500.
(BC Ord. 10-1996, passed 8-19-96)
      (3)   Whoever violates
Chapter 71, Schedule III(B) shall be guilty of an infraction violation.
Violation shall be a Class B infraction and shall be fined not more than
$1,000.
(BC Ord. 2010-012, passed 12-7-10)
   (C)   Violation of §
70.03 shall be punishable as follows:
      (1)   For vehicles overweight between zero and 4,000 pounds, a fine of
$300.
      (2)   For vehicles 4,000 pounds overweight or greater, a fine of $500
plus an additional $100 fine for each 1,000 pounds or portion thereof above
4,000 pounds overweight up to a maximum fine of $2,500.
(BC Ord. 5-1997, passed 4-7-97)
   (D)   Any person violating any portion of §
70.05 shall be guilty of a Class C infraction and shall be fined up to $500.
Any person found to have violated §
70.05 more than once in a calendar year shall be guilty of a Class B infraction
and shall be fined up to $1,000.
   (E)   Any person violating any portion of §
70.04 and/or §
70.07 shall be guilty of a Class D infraction and shall be fined up to $25. Any
person found to have violated any portion of §
70.04 and/or §
70.05 more than once in a calendar year shall be guilty of a Class C infraction
and shall be fined up to $500.
   (F)   Any person violating any portion of §
70.08 shall be guilty of a Class D infraction and shall be fined up to $25. Any
person found to have violated any portion of §
70.08 a second time in a calendar year shall be guilty of a Class C infraction
and shall be fined up to $500. If a person is cited for a violation of §
70.08 for a third time in any calendar year, he or she shall be guilty of a
Class C infraction and shall be fined up to $500. Additionally, the
registration for the golf cart the person was operating at the time of the
citation and the registration for any golf cart registered by that person shall
be revoked and the golf cart(s) may not be registered for a period of one year.
   (G)   Any person found to be in violation of §
70.09 shall be guilty of, and fined, as follows:
      (1)   First offense - Class C infraction; a fine of up to $500;
      (2)   Second offense - Class B infraction; a fine of up to $1,000;
      (3)   Third offense and any offense thereafter - Class A infraction; a
fine of up to $2,500 for each offense beginning with the third offense.
(BC Ord. 2006-2, passed 4-4-06; Am. B.C. Ord. 2006-3, passed 7- 18-06; Am. BC
Ord. 2015-014, passed 12-15-15; Am. BC Ord. 2019-005, passed 4-23-19; Am. BC
Ord. 2023-005, passed 4-18-23)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   County roads
   
III.   County bridges
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   The maximum lawful speed for vehicles traveling on the following streets
shall be that indicated:
 
Street        Speed Limit Ord. No.        Date Passed
One Mile Road 30 m.p.h    BC Ord. 4-1997  4-7-97
Hyland Road   25 m.p.h.   BC Ord. 15-1998 10-5-98
 
(BC Ord. 4-1997, passed 4-7-97; Am. BC Ord. 15-1998, passed 10-5-98) Penalty,
see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. COUNTY ROADS.
   The following are Dearborn County Highway Roads (Off State Roads) referred
to in §
70.02.
State Road County Road
State Road      County Road
                Bells Branch
                Farmers Retreat
SR 62           Sangamaw
                Spangler
                Arlington
US 50-350       West County Line
                Station Hollow
US 50           Texas Gas
                Mt. Tabor
US 50-262       Hueseman
US 50           Cole Lane
                Gutman
                Martin
SR 262          Stevens
                Bocock
                West Laughery
US 50-56        Dutch Hollow
US 56-Cole Lane East Laughery
US 50-US 50     Lower Dillsboro
                Gatch Hill
US 50           Marsh
                Hoffman
SR 350-48       North Hogan
                Probst
SR 350          Old Hwy 350
                Lattimer
 
 
State Road County Road
           Stimson
           Hinman
           Soap Hill
           Shangri-La Village
           Alberta Dr.
SR 148     Briarwood
           Country Estates
           Jacobsen & Country Hills
           Melody
           Hillview
           Park Avenue
           Ebenezer Hts.
SR 1-US 50 Oberting
           Klein Acres
           Huffman
           Dewitt
SR 350     Rummel
           Sparta Pike
           Hogan Hill
           Chesterville
           Palmer
           Burns
           Weisburg
           White Plains
           Schaefer
           County Farm
           North Manchester
           Platt
           Union Ridge
           Louden
SR 48      Ellinghausen
           Possum Ridge
           Turkey Point
           Collier Ridge
           Kaiser
           Keller
           Hillcrest
           Scenic
           Pribble
           Wilson Crk-US 50
           Tower Road
 
 
State Road County Road
           Dog Ridge
           Legion
           Trackville
           Bihr
SR 46      Lawrenceville
           St. Peters
           Chappelow
           Barber
           Whites Hill
           Longnecker
           Wesling
SR 52      Johnson Fork
           Old US 52
           State St.
           Nowlin
           Green Road
           Georgetown
           Salt Fork
           Pella Crossing
           Mt. Pleasant
           Bonnell
SR 1       York Ridge Road
           Sawdon Ridge
           Cook
           Zimmer
           Old US 1
           Hyland Lane
           Hager Road
           Schuman
Stateline  Sand Run
           Bond
           Jamison
           North County Line
           Ashe
State St.  Walt Paner
           Peppertown
           Carolina Trace
           Stout Road
           McQueen
 
(BC Ord. 10-1996, passed 8-19-96) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. COUNTY BRIDGES.
   (A)   The following indicates the weight limits in tons, total gross weight,
with load, for county bridges.
Township Bridge # Weight Limit
Township Bridge # Weight Limit
Ceaser   14       16
         15       10
Center   4        20
         95       00 [closed]
         7        20
         10       20
Clay     6        20
         202      16
         18       16
         201      16
         88       20
         87       20
Harrison 108      20
         107      20
         105      20
         76       15
         28       15
Hogan    20       16
         19       20
         77       15
         73       15
Jackson  72       15
         166      15
         82       16
 
Township Bridge # Weight Limit
Township     Bridge # Weight Limit
             83       20
Kelso        103      20
             40       20
             35       20
             160      20
Lawrenceburg 57       20
             58       20
Logan        107      20
             47       16
             46       16
             39       20
             38       16
Manchester   27       20
             26       20
             33       20
             32       15
             31       20
             64       19
             63       20
             203      20
             66       20
             60       20
Miller       59       20
             68       20
             161      20
             61       20
             52       20
             55       10
             54       15
Sparta       164      20
 
Township Bridge # Weight Limit
Township   Bridge # Weight Limit
Sparta     22       8
Washington 2        20
           3        20
           50       20
York       49       20
           97       20
           111      20
 
(BC Ord. 10-1996, passed 8-19-96)
   (B)   The following indicates vehicle length restrictions for county
bridges.
 
Location                             Bridge # Vehicle Length (Maximum)
Kaiser Road over a branch of Tanners 61       Single vehicle: 40 foot
Creek                                         Combination vehicle: 45 foot
 
(BC Ord. 2010-012, passed 12-7-10)
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   ROADS AND HIGHWAYS
      
92.   ABANDONED RAILROAD STRUCTURES
      
93.   EXCESSIVE NOISE
      
94.   EROSION CONTROL
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
      
96.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
97.   BROADBAND READY COMMUNITY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Adoption of state law
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Duty and responsibility of animal owner
   
90.04   Jurisdiction
Animal Control
   
90.16   Public nuisance
   
90.17   Restraint of animals
   
90.18   Regulation of vicious and dangerous dogs
   
90.19   Determination of vicious and dangerous dog status
   
90.20   Community cats
   
90.21   Sterilization of dogs and cats
   
90.22   Commercial animal establishments
   
90.23   Exotic animals
Licensing and Permits
   
90.34   License required
   
90.35   Application; term of license
   
90.36   License fees
   
90.37   Issuance of license tag; record; use of license for different animal
prohibited
   
90.38   Kennel licenses
Animal Care
   
90.49   Vaccination of dogs, cats and ferrets
   
90.50   Cruelty, abuse, neglect and abandonment of animals
   
90.51   Giving away live animals
   
90.52   Striking domestic animal with motor vehicle
   
90.53   Animals in vehicles
   
90.54   Exposing poisonous substances
Administration and Enforcement
   
90.65   Animal control officers and staff
   
90.66   Impoundment and notice of violation
   
90.67   Enforcement of civil and criminal provisions
   
90.68   Interference with animal control officer prohibited
   
90.69   Fees and money collected
   
90.70   Animal bites and quarantine
   
90.71   Animal quarantine fees
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   All laws of the state which pertain to the regulation and control of
animals, including, but not limited to, their ownership, licensing, harboring,
abandonment, running at large, rabies control and quarantine, pursuit, capture,
confinement, the prevention and! control of diseases of domestic animals, and
the active rules and regulations of the State Board of Health and unlawful acts
relating thereto which are not inconsistent with this chapter are made a part
of this chapter by reference.
   (B)   The sections of this chapter are not to replace state laws, but are to
be considered supplementary and in addition to the laws of the state and are to
be fully enforced where not inconsistent with those laws. Any violation of the
state statute which is an infraction by state law shall also be deemed a
violation of this chapter and may be enforced as an infraction of the same
class of infraction as the state statute.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The voluntary relinquishment of possession of an animal by the
owner without vesting possession of the animal in any other person. The failure
to make adequate provision for food, water, and shelter shall be prima facie
evidence of abandonment. Returning community cats to their original location
after sterilization, vaccination against rabies, and ear tip does not
constitute abandonment.
   ADULT DOG and ADULT CAT. Any dog or cat that is four months of age or older
for the purposes of rabies vaccinations and licensing.
   AGENT. Any person 18 years of age or older authorized by an owner to act on
the owner's behalf.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any individual employed, contracted or appointed by
the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners and/or Dearborn County Animal
Control for the purpose of aiding in the enforcement of this chapter relating
to the licensing of animals, control of animals or seizure and impoundment of
animals.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by Dearborn County or contracted to
third parties to operate on behalf of Dearborn County for the purpose of
impounding animals under the authority of this chapter or state law for care,
confinement, return to owner, adoption, or euthanasia. In Dearborn County, the
animal shelter is P.A.W.S of Dearborn County Humane Center located at 200
Charles A. Liddle Drive, Lawrenceburg, Indiana 47025.
   AT LARGE. Any animal that is not under direct control of the owner or other
person by leash, cord, fence, chain or other device of physical restraint, or
an electronic “invisible” fence or any person who has the ability to control
the animal by voice command. The term AT LARGE does not include animals engaged
in lawful hunting accompanied by the owner or custodian. The term AT LARGE does
not include community cats.
   AUTHORIZED VETERINARIAN/CLINIC. Any person licensed or permitted to practice
veterinary medicine under the laws of the state, and such person shall have had
no previous incidents where money collected from the sale of rabies or license
tags has been used or handled inappropriately or illegally.
   COLONY. A group of two or more feral cats, whether managed or unmanaged.
   COMMUNITY CAT. Any free roaming cat that may be cared for by one or more
residents of the immediate area who is/are known or unknown. A community cat
may or may not be feral. COMMUNITY CATS are cats that have been ear tipped, are
sterilized, and have received at least one vaccination against rabies. A
COMMUNITY CAT may also be defined as a cat "found" outside that is brought to
an animal shelter and has not yet been sterilized and ear tipped.
   COMMUNITY CAT CAREGIVER. A person who provides care, including food, shelter
or medical care to a community cat, while not being considered the owner,
custodian, harborer. controller or keeper of a community cat or to have care or
charge of a community cat.
   COMMUNITY CAT DIVERSION. The sterilizing, ear tipping, and vaccination of a
cat that is large enough for spay/neuter that is found outside and returning it
to its original location as opposed to admitting the cat to the animal shelter.
The cat may only be returned to its original location with the permission of
the property owner.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, auction, flea market, riding
school or stable, pet grooming shop, zoological park, circus, kennel, or
veterinary hospital.
   COMMISSION. The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners or such other board
as may be established by the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners to perform
delegated functions of the Commission under this chapter.
   CONFINEMENT. Limited or restricted within the bounds of the real property of
the animal's owner or agent.
   COUNTY. The incorporated and unincorporated areas of Dearborn County.
   DIRECT CONTROL. Immediate and continuous physical control of an animal
(excluding community cats and herding dogs; dogs in the process of hunting;
police dogs; dogs participating in a registered field trial, obedience trial,
and confirmation show and/or match) at all times such as by means of a fence,
leash, cord or chain of sufficient strength to restrain the animal. When an
animal is specifically trained to immediately respond to oral or visual
commands, the term DIRECT CONTROL includes oral or visual control if the
controlling person is at all times clearly and fully within unobstructed sight
and hearing of the animal, but in no case to exceed 100 feet. Oral control
shall at all times prevent the animal from running at large or otherwise
violating this chapter.
   DOG RUNNING AT LARGE. Any dog not under direct control, not on a leash, not
at heel, not beside a competent person, not in a vehicle driven or parked, or
not confined within the property limits of its owner. Hunting dogs are under
the control of the owner when hunting with the landowner's permission.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A dog, cat, or any other animal such as a rabbit, guinea
pig, lizard, iguana, fish, hamster, ferret, mouse, snake, spider, bird, or
gerbil, which may normally be held, sold, or maintained as a pet.
   EAR TIPPING. The removal of the 1/4 inch tip of a community cat’s ear,
performed while the cat is under anesthesia, in compliance with any applicable
federal and/or state law, and under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian,
designed to be the universal identification that the community cat is
sterilized and lawfully vaccinated against rabies at least once.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is native to a foreign country or of foreign
origin or character, is not native to the United States, or was introduced from
abroad. This term specifically includes animals such as, but not limited to,
lions, tigers, leopards, elephants, camels, antelope, anteaters, kangaroos, and
water buffalo, and species of foreign domestic cattle, such as Ankole, Gayal,
and Yak.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Any human or non-human warm blooded mammal that has been
bitten or in contact with any other animal known or reasonably suspected to
have been infected with rabies.
   FERAL CAT. Any cat that has no apparent owner or identification and is wild,
untamed, unsocialized, unmanageable and unable to be approached or handled.
   FRESH PURSUIT. The immediate following by an animal control officer and/or
law enforcement officer of an animal that is found to be at large and not on
the owner's property.
   GUARD DOG and WATCHDOG. Any dog trained by a recognized training facility
for the purpose of protecting individuals from assault and/or preventing
property loss or damage. The term RECOGNIZED TRAINING FACILITY means any person
holding a state kennel license and a business license for either of the
purposes described in this definition.
   GUIDE DOG. A properly trained dog certified by a licensed training facility
that has an expertise in training dogs for physically impaired persons and that
is actually being used by a person to assist in that physical impairment.
   HARBORING. The action of any person (the “harborer”) that permits any animal
to habitually remain or lodge or to be fed within their home, store, enclosure,
yard, or place of business or any premises on which such person resides or
controls. An animal shall be presumed harbored if it is fed or sheltered for
three consecutive days. For the purpose of this chapter, this definition is
referring only to those  animals falling under the responsibilities and duties
of Dearborn County Animal Control and is not intended to include community cat
caregivers, bird feeders or other wildlife or livestock accommodations
regulated by other state and/or Dearborn County agencies.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an animal control officer or other law enforcement officer empowered to act
by law and transporting it to an animal control facility or humane society.
   KENNEL. Any premise or portion thereof on which five or more dogs over four
months of age are kept or on which two or more dogs are maintained, boarded,
bred, or cared for for commercial purposes as outlined in §
90.38(A).
   KENNEL OPERATOR. A person and/or business that owns and/or operates a kennel
that conducts any of the commercial purposes outlined in §
90.38(A).
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any law enforcement officer empowered to make
arrests or cause to be issued summonses in Dearborn County.
   LICENSING AUTHORITY. Dearborn County Animal Control, P.A.W.S. and any
additional authority deemed appropriate to issue animal licenses by the
Commission.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes horses, cows, goats, pigs or any other four-legged
animal, excluding dogs and cats, used for pleasure or profit. Fowl are
expressly included within this definition.
   MENACING FASHION. A dog that would cause any person being chased or
approached to reasonably believe that the dog will cause physical injury to
that person.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, harbors, keeps, feeds, maintains, has lawful
possession of, or knowingly causes or knowingly permits an animal to be
harbored or kept or has an animal in their care who permits an animal to remain
on or about his/her premises; provided, however, this shall not include a
person hired or acting as custodian of the animal for its owner, and shall not
include community cat caregivers.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, joint stock company, syndicate,
partnership, and/or corporation.
   PET SHOP. A commercial animal establishment engaging in the retail sale of
animals.
   POLICE DOG. Any dog trained by a recognized training facility for the
purpose of assisting one or more law enforcement officers in the performance of
their official duties. The term RECOGNIZED TRAINING FACILITY means any person
holding a state kennel license and a business license for either of the
purposes described in this definition.
   RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE. A commercial pet establishment that has available
for hire, boarding and/or riding instruction any horse, burro, donkey, pony or
mule.
   RUNNING IN PACK. Three or more animals at large together which, by repeated
or continual presence, constitutes a physical danger to a neighborhood,
livestock, or personal or real property. RUNNING IN PACK shall not include
animals under the reasonable control of some person, community cats, or when
engaged in lawful hunting accompanied by the owner or custodian.
   SHELTER. Any housing that is constructed of solid wood or other weather
resistant material, consisting of a structure with solid walls on all sides, a
dry floor raised above the ground, and a solid roof. The shelter must be large
enough for the dog to stand up and turn around, and must contain clean, dry
bedding, which must consist of an insulating material that does not retain
moisture, such as straw, of sufficient depth for the dog to burrow.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. A commercial animal establishment maintained and
operated by a licensed veterinarian for surgery, disease diagnosis, and/or
treatment of disease and injuries of animals.
   VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOG. Any animal that attacks, bites or injures human
beings, pets, companion animals or livestock or which, because of temperament,
conditioning, or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite or injure
human beings, pets, companion animals or livestock. No dog may be declared
vicious and dangerous if a threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person
who, at the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the
premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the dog or was provoking,
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or has, in the past, been observed
to have provoked, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime. The definition shall not be construed to include
dogs that are part of a governmental organization or a trained guard dog in
performance of its duties.
   WITHOUT PROVOCATION. A dog not provoked, tormented, or abused by a person. A
dog that was coming to the aid or defense of a person who was engaged in
illegal or criminal activity and who was using the dog as a means of carrying
out such activity is acting without provocation.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Ord. 2017-014, passed 11-7-17; Am. BC
Ord. 2018-003, passed 2-20-18; Am. BC Ord. 2022-016, passed 11-1-22)
§ 90.03 DUTY AND RESPONSIBILITY OF ANIMAL OWNER.
   (A)   Every owner of every animal kept in Dearborn County shall see that
such animal:
      (1)   Is kept in a clean and sanitary and healthy manner and is not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in its own excrement. The
person responsible for the animal shall regularly, and as often as necessary,
maintain all animal areas or areas of animal contact to prevent odor or health
and sanitation problems;
      (2)   Shall have proper and adequate food that is nutritionally
appropriate for the species in adequate amounts to maintain good health, fresh
potable drinking water, shelter and ventilation, including quarters that are
protected from excessive heat and cold and are of sufficient size to permit the
animal to exercise and move about freely;
      (3)   Shall not be tethered by use of a pinch, pronged, or choke collar
nor by any rope, chain or cord directly attached to the animal’s neck, nor by
any collar too small for the size and age of the animal, nor by a leash of such
unreasonable weight as to prevent the animal from moving about freely;
      (4)   Is protected against abuse, cruelty, neglect, torment, overload,
overwork, or any other mistreatment;
      (5)   Shall provide reasonably necessary medical care including the
required rabies vaccination. If diseased or exhibiting symptoms of disease, the
owner shall ensure that the animal receives proper medical care and is
segregated from other animals so as to prevent transmittal of the disease;
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any dog to be tethered or confined to a
structure or premises for any purposes or time when it is not monitored by a
competent adult and who is not residing at the property for the duration of
such tethering or confinement; and
      (7)   Is maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state and
local laws and all regulations respecting animal care and control as are
adopted by Dearborn County and in effect from time to time.
   (B)   Owners of animals in Dearborn County have the duty to ensure that they
are in compliance with all applicable federal and state laws as well as this
chapter and any additional ordinances of Dearborn County such as the Zoning
Ordinance and the Subdivision Control Ordinance. Failure to comply with all
applicable laws could result in penalties in addition to those outlined in §
90.99.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Ord. 2018-003, passed 2-20-18)
§ 90.04 JURISDICTION.
   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners finds that the terms and
conditions of this chapter are in the best interests of all citizens of
Dearborn County. Therefore, this chapter shall be in full force and effect in
both the incorporated and unincorporated parts of Dearborn County unless or
until a municipality within Dearborn County passes an ordinance:
   (A)   Prohibiting enforcement of this chapter within the boundaries of the
municipality; or
   (B)   Regulating and prohibiting acts or omissions substantially similar to
those acts or omissions set out in this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
ANIMAL CONTROL
§ 90.16 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any animal that, unprovoked, unreasonably annoys humans, endangers the life
or health of other animals or persons, or substantially interferes with the
rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of life or property.
The term PUBLIC NUISANCE shall mean and include, but is not limited to, any
animal that, unprovoked:
   (A)   Is found at large on more than two occasions;
   (B)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
   (C)   Harasses or intimidates neighbors, pedestrians, or passersby;
   (D)   Makes disturbing noises including, but not limited to, continued and
repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing unreasonable
annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity
to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored; or
   (E)   Attacks other animals.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.17 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or harborer of any animal, with the
exception of community cats, to allow such animal to run at large, whether
wearing a collar and tag or not, within the incorporated or unincorporated
areas of Dearborn County. If the animal has a collar and tag, the animal
control officer or the law enforcement officer shall take reasonable measures
to return the animal to its owner. Any animal found running at large that is
not wearing a collar and tag shall be immediately impounded by an animal
control officer or a law enforcement officer. Animal control officers and law
enforcement officers may pursue animals onto private property to effect capture
of such animal.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every owner or harborer of any animal to
exercise reasonable care and take all necessary steps and precautions to
protect other people, property, and animals from injuries or damage which might
result from the animal's behavior. If the owner or harborer of any animal is a
minor, the parent or guardian of such minor shall be jointly responsible for
the minor's violation of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner or harborer of any dog to ensure
that the dog is kept under restraint and that reasonable care and precautions
are taken to prevent the dog from leaving the real property limits of its owner
or harborer and ensure that it is:
      (1)   Securely and humanely enclosed within a house, building, fence, pen
or other enclosure out of which it cannot climb, dig, jump, or otherwise escape
on its own volition;
      (2)   Securely and humanely restrained by chain, cable or trolley, or
other tether of sufficient strength to prevent escape; and/or
      (3)   On a leash and under the control of a competent person; or off a
leash and obedient to that person's command and that person is present with the
dog any time it is not restrained as provided for in division (C)(1) or (C)(2)
of this section while on the owner's property.
   (D)   The owner or harborer of any guard dog or watch dog must confine such
dog within a perimeter fence and meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The fence shall be sufficient to prevent the dog's escape, with all
points of ingress and egress securely locked at all times; and
      (2)   A beware of dog sign shall be conspicuously displayed on each
exterior side of the enclosure for each 50 feet enclosure, with a minimum of
two, as well as a sign on each ingress and egress point to the enclosure. Signs
shall be a minimum of 16 inches by 16 inches.
   (E)   The chaining of dogs is discouraged, but if it is done, the following
is required:
      (1)   The dog must be able to reach fresh food and water 24 hours a day;
      (2)   The chain must be at least 12 feet in length;
      (3)   The chain must not be of a weight heavy enough to cause physical
damage to the dog's neck or body;
      (4)   The dog shall not be tethered by use of a pinch, pronged, or choke
collar, or on any collar too small for the size and age of the animal, or by
any rope, chair or cord directly attached to the animal’s neck;
      (5)   The chain must be attached in a manner so that it cannot wrap
around vertical items such as a barrel, pole or tree. It must be able to move
freely in all directions;
      (6)   The dog must have shelter from the weather, yet free from becoming
entangled with the chain. The dog must have access to the shelter 24 hours a
day;
      (7)   The shelter or doghouse must be kept clean and sanitary and in good
repair so the dog does not injure itself on nails, wood pieces, metal pieces,
etc. A shelter from weather must be provided during all seasons of the year;
and
      (8)   Any area that the dog has access to must be kept clean and sanitary
so that the dog does not injure itself on nails, wood pieces, metal pieces,
etc. The area must also be free of animal feces.
   (F)   Every animal in heat shall be confined in a house, building, or secure
enclosure with impenetrable walls in such a manner that such female cannot come
into contact with a male of the same species except for planned breeding.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Ord. 2017-014, passed 11-7-17; Am. BC
Ord. 2018-003, passed 2-20-18)
§ 90.18 REGULATION OF VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   In addition to the requirements for the restraint of animals found in §
90.17, the following additional regulations apply to dogs that have been
determined to be vicious and dangerous dogs.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements in §
90.17(C), the owner of a vicious and dangerous dog who maintains the dog
outside shall fence a portion of the property with a second perimeter or area
fence. Within this perimeter or area fence, the vicious and dangerous dog must
be humanely confined inside a pen or kennel of adequate size. The pen or kennel
may not share common fencing with the area or perimeter fence. The kennel or
pen must have secure sides and a secure top attached to all sides. The sides
must either be buried two feet into the ground, sunken into a concrete pad, or
securely attached to a wire bottom. The gate to the kennel shall be of the
inward-opening type and shall be kept locked except when tending to the dog's
needs such as cleaning the kennel or providing food and water.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, accompany or be
responsible for the presence of any vicious and dangerous dog on the streets or
public places of Dearborn County or allow the dog to run on the premises of
another at any time, unless, in addition to the other requirements of this
chapter, the dog is securely muzzled to effectively prevent it from biting any
person or other animal.
   (C)   Whenever a vicious and dangerous dog is outside of its enclosure as
provided for in this section, but on the owner's property, it must be attended
by the owner and restrained by a secure collar and leash of sufficient strength
to prevent escape. The leash shall be no longer than ten feet, and the dog must
be kept at least 15 feet within the perimeter boundaries of the property unless
the perimeter boundary is securely fenced.
   (D)   No vicious and dangerous dog shall be chained, tethered, or otherwise
tied to any inanimate object such as a tree, post or building, outside of its
own enclosure as provided for in this section.
   (E)   No owner or harborer of a vicious and dangerous dog shall fail to
obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write liability
insurance in the State of Indiana providing coverage in each occurrence,
subject to a limit, exclusive of interest and costs, of not less than $100,000.
Said insurance must be obtained within 14 days of receiving notice that the dog
has been determined to be a vicious and dangerous dog.
   (F)   If a dog is determined to be a vicious and dangerous dog pursuant to §
90.19(A), the owner or harborer shall have ten days in which to file a written
Notice of Appeal of such designation with the Commission. The Commission shall
set a hearing on the determination within 20 days of receiving the written
Notice of Appeal. The Commission shall conduct a hearing on the appeal and
shall determine whether the designation of vicious and dangerous dog shall
remain or be removed. The decision of the Commission shall be made no later
than ten days after the hearing and written notice of the decision shall be
provided by the Commission to the owner or harborer and Dearborn County Animal
Control. From the time the designation is made by the animal control officer,
the provisions of this chapter regarding vicious and dangerous shall be in full
force and effect and each owner or harborer and the animal control officer
shall ensure that the provisions with regard to vicious and dangerous dogs are
fully met during such time period. Any violation of this chapter committed
prior to the hearing shall be admissible and such hearing shall be conducted in
an informal manner pursuant to procedures established by the Commission.
   (G)   Any person who is the owner or harborer of a vicious and dangerous dog
and who transfers the ownership, care, or custody of said dog to another person
shall notify Dearborn County Animal Control of such transfer within 48 hours of
the transfer.
   (H)   The owner or harborer of a vicious and dangerous dog shall post a sign
at the normal main entrance to their premises where it will be readily visible
by anyone, especially children, coming to their property. The sign shall be no
less than 16 inches by 16 inches in size, the letters shall be no less than two
and one half inches in thickness, and the sign shall say "BEWARE VICIOUS DOG"
or "BEWARE DANGEROUS DOG".
(BC Ord. 2015-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Ord. 2015-001, passed 1-6-15; Am. BC
Ord. 2017-014, passed 11-7-17)
§ 90.19 DETERMINATION OF VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOG STATUS.
   An animal control officer may preliminarily designate a dog as a vicious and
dangerous dog as they may deem necessary as a result of their own personal
knowledge, or as a result of a written, signed complaint made by any member of
the public, or based on such other information provided to or obtained by
Dearborn County Animal Control which they deem to be sufficient to cause such a
determination to be made. Notice of this determination shall be provided to the
owner or harborer of the dog and to the Commission in writing.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.20 COMMUNITY CATS.
   (A)   The following provisions shall apply to community cats:
      (1)   For a cat to be considered a "community cat", the cat must be ear
tipped, sterilized, and have received at least one vaccination against rabies.
      (2)   If the provisions of §
90.20(A)(1) have been followed, the cat will be considered a "community cat"
and is exempt from any licensing, stray, abandonment, or at large provisions
directed toward "owned animals" as found in this chapter.
   (B)   The following provisions shall apply to community cat caregivers:
      (1)   Community cat caregivers shall be responsible for the ear tipping,
sterilization, and rabies vaccination of community cats.
      (2)   Community cat caregivers shall ensure that all federal and state
laws are being followed and any medical procedures performed on the community
cat are performed under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian.
      (3)   Community cat caregivers must make every effort to booster the
rabies vaccination as per the manufacturer's instructions.
      (4)   Community cat caregivers must make every effort to minimize the
impact on local wildlife, feed the proper quantity of food for the number of
cats in appropriate food containers, discard food containers daily, and feed
only on their own property or with the permission of another landowner, be it
public or private land.
      (5)   Community cat caregivers may redeem community cats from P.A.W.S.
without proof of ownership and are exempt from any charges and/or fees.
      (6)   Community cat caregivers may only return the community cat to its
original location after the requirements found in §
90.20(A)(1) have been satisfied if the property owner of the original location
is in agreement with the community cat being returned to the property.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Ord. 2017-014, passed 11-7-17)
§ 90.21 STERILIZATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   In an effort to decrease the overpopulation of homeless, unwanted dogs
and cats, it is strongly advised that each dog and cat over the age of six
months which is kept in Dearborn County be sterilized and rendered incapable of
reproducing by a licensed veterinarian, unless a veterinarian has certified in
writing that it would not be in the animal's best medical interest, but in no
case later than when that excepted animal attains the age of nine months.
   (B)   Any animal adopted from any source, with the exception of breeding
stock, must be spayed or neutered by a veterinarian. If the animal is an adult,
such operation shall be performed within one month of adoption. All adopted
juvenile dogs and cats must be spayed or neutered by the age of six months
unless otherwise advised by a veterinarian.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.22 COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Standards for commercial animal establishments are as follows:
      (1)   The establishment must be operated in such a manner as not to
constitute a public nuisance;
      (2)   The establishment shall provide an isolation area for animals that
are sick or diseased to be placed in so as not to spread disease to healthy
animals;
      (3)   All animals must be kept caged, within a secure enclosure or under
the control of the owner at all times;
      (4)   The establishment must provide the level of care provided for in
this chapter to all animals kept on the premises;
      (5)   The establishment will not sell animals which are unwearied or
diseased;
      (6)   The establishment shall permit the animal control officer to
inspect, at any and all times, the premises where the animals are kept;
      (7)   The establishment must provide each animal with sufficient space to
stand up, lie down, and turn around in a natural position without touching the
sides or top of the enclosure;
      (8)   A commercial animal establishment shall be considered one or more
of, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Auction;
         (b)   Flea market;
         (c)   Circus;
         (d)   Riding school or stable;
         (e)   Veterinary hospital;
         (f)   Zoological park;
         (g)   Pet shop;
         (h)   Pet grooming shop;
         (i)   Kennels and catteries; and
         (j)   Permanent fairgrounds.
      (9)   All commercial animal establishments, other than a circus
temporarily located within Dearborn County for less than ten days per year,
shall be located at a permanent building or facility and shall be permitted at
that location by the applicable zoning laws.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.23 EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   Exotic animals, as defined in §
90.02, may only be possessed with proper licensing with state and federal
authorities. Dearborn County Animal Control must be notified of the presence of
any exotic animals by the owner or harborer of the exotic animals.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
LICENSES AND PERMITS
§ 90.34 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person owning, keeping, harboring or having custody of a dog(s)
over four months of age within Dearborn County must obtain a license for each
dog in their possession. Further, each owner of a dog within Dearborn County
shall ensure that such dog, at all times, wears a collar made of a durable
material to which is attached, at all times, the dog license tag in addition to
the required rabies vaccination tag. There is no licensing requirement for
cats; however, licensing is recommended for cats because it increases the
number of lost cats returned and facilitates enforcement of animal control and
cruelty laws and promotes spaying and neutering.
   (B)   Licenses under this section will be issued individually for each dog
or, in the event a person maintains a kennel, such person may apply for a
kennel permit in lieu of an individual license for each dog.
   (C)   As indicated in §
90.02, the licensing authorities in Dearborn County are Dearborn County Animal
Control and P.A.W.S. As such, dog licenses may be purchased from these sources.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.35 APPLICATION; TERM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Written application for individual license or kennel licenses shall
include the name and address of the owner, description of the dog(s), the
appropriate fees, and rabies certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian or
rabies clinic.
   (B)   Application for a license must be made within 30 days after obtaining
a dog over four months of age; this requirement will not apply to a nonresident
keeping a dog within Dearborn County for not longer than 60 days.
   (C)   Licenses shall be for a period of one calendar year. Licenses for the
following year may be purchased and used during the last 60 days of the
preceding year.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Ord. 2022-016, passed 11-1-22)
§ 90.36 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   A license shall be issued after presenting a current rabies
vaccination certificate and payment of the application fee in the amount as set
forth below:
      (1)   $6 for each neutered male dog or spayed female dog;
      (2)   $11 for each un-neutered male dog or unspayed female dog; and
      (3)   $200 yearly fee for each kennel license. This fee may be waived for
a non-profit corporation operating as an animal rescue organization that is
registered as a 501(c).
   (B)   Duplicate licenses or permits may be obtained upon payment of a $1
replacement fee.
   (C)   No license fee shall be required for certified seeing-eye dogs,
hearing dogs, government police dogs, or other dogs that are certified service
dogs to assist the physically or emotionally handicapped.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Ord. 2022-016, passed 11-1-22)
§ 90.37 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE TAG; RECORD; USE OF LICENSE FOR DIFFERENT DOG
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Upon acceptance of the license application and fee, the licensing
authority shall issue a durable tag, stamped with an identifying number and the
year of issuance, or a certificate in the case of a kennel license.
   (B)   The licensing authority shall maintain a record of the identifying
number of all tags and kennel licenses issued.
   (C)   No person may use any license for any dog other than the dog for which
it was issued.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Ord. 2022-016, passed 11-1-22)
§ 90.38 KENNEL LICENSES.
   (A)   A kennel license is required to be obtained by any person and/or
business engaged in any of the following commercial activities:
      (1)   Any person who intentionally causes or allows the breeding, or
offers a dog to be available for breeding purposes;
      (2)   Any person who offers for sale, sells, trades, receives other
compensation, or gives away any litter of dogs; or
      (3)   Any owner or person having custody of a dog that has delivered a
litter or caused the delivery of a litter that is intended to be sold or
traded;
      (4)   Any owner or person that offers dog boarding or day care services;
and/or
      (5)   Any animal rescue organization that is a non-profit corporation
registered as a 501(c).
   (B)   Such kennel license shall:
      (1)   Allow the birthing of a maximum of one litter in a 12-month period
per dog in any kennel located in a domestic household, commercial
establishment, or any combination thereof;
      (2)   Not allow the owner to offer for sale, sell, trade, or receive
other compensation or give away more than one litter of dogs in such 12-month
period per dog; and
      (3)   Require the holder of the license to furnish Dearborn County Animal
Control with information on the birth of each litter of dogs as may be required
by Dearborn County Animal Control to register the litter and be assigned a
litter number for each litter.
   (C)   The holder of a kennel license shall:
      (1)   Transmit to the new owner or buyer the litter number of the dog(s)
acquired and the breeder’s kennel license number in order that the new owner
has assurance and proof that the dog was legally bred;
      (2)   Immunize all dogs offered for sale, trade, or other compensation or
for free giveaway against the most common contagious diseases including, but
not necessarily limited to, canine distemper, hepatitis, Para influenza, and
parvo virus;
      (3)   Not offer a puppy under the age of eight weeks for sale, trade or
other compensation or for free giveaway; and
      (4)   Furnish a warrant of health for a period of not less than one week
with the recommendation to have the dog examined by a licensed veterinarian for
each dog sold, traded, or given away.
   (D)   Each kennel license shall be obtained from Dearborn County Animal
Control. Each kennel license must be approved by Dearborn County Animal Control
and the Dearborn County Planning and Zoning Department. Kennel licenses may
only be issued for properties that are located in Agricultural or any
Industrial zoning district. Kennel licenses may not be issued in any other
zoning districts without the approval of the Dearborn County Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (E)   Each holder of a valid kennel license shall register additional
litters with Dearborn County Animal Control. Each additional litter
registration shall comply with the same requirements as the original kennel
license.
   (F)   Dearborn County adopts the Code of Federal Regulations, 9 CFR 3.1
through 3.20 as the standards of operation and inspection of kennels. The
Dearborn County Board of Commissioners appoints the Dearborn County Animal
Control as the agency authorized to inspect kennels.
   (G)   Any kennel license that was issued prior to changes in this section in
2022 shall continue to be issued under the prior section rules as a pre-
existing non-conforming use. Should any license holder that is a pre-existing
non-conforming use fail to renew their license and the license lapses for a
period of six months or more, said license holder shall be required to apply
for a new kennel license that will only be issued if the applicant is compliant
with this section in effect at that time.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Ord. 2022-016, passed 11-1-22)
ANIMAL CARE
§ 90.49 VACCINATION OF DOGS, CATS AND FERRETS.
   (A)   See IAC Title 345: Indiana State Board of Animal Health.
   (B)   All dogs, cats and ferrets four months of age and older must be
vaccinated against rabies. The rabies vaccination of a dog, cat, or ferret
shall be maintained by ongoing revaccination of the animal as follows:
      (1)   Ferrets shall be vaccinated within 12 months of the prior
vaccination;
      (2)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine the label
of which recommends annual boosters shall be revaccinated within 12 months of
the prior vaccination;
      (3)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine the label
of which recommends a booster one year later and triennially thereafter shall
be revaccinated within 36 months of each vaccination thereafter.
   (C)   The owner of the animal is responsible for procuring the vaccinations
required by this section.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.50 CRUELTY, ABUSE, NEGLECT AND ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Cruelty shall mean and include every act whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain, suffering or death is caused, permitted or allowed to
continue where there is a reasonable remedy or relief. Acts of cruelty shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Whoever willfully or maliciously kills, abuses, maims, or
disfigures any animal or willfully or maliciously administers poison to any
animal or exposes any poisonous substance with the intent that the poisonous
substance shall be taken and swallowed by such animal shall be deemed in
violation of this section.
      (2)   Whoever overloads, overdrives, tortures, torments, or deprives an
animal of its necessary sustenance or shelter in such a manner as to not be
protected from excessive heat or cold that causes the animal to be in distress;
beats, mutilates, or kills any animal or causes such to be done; or carries in
or upon a vehicle or otherwise any animal in a cruel or inhumane manner shall
be deemed in violation of this section.
      (3)   Whoever confines any animal and fails to supply it with sufficient
quantities of wholesome food and water, whoever keeps any animal in any
enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air or whoever abandons any
animal to die shall be deemed in violation of this section.
      (4)   No person shall:
         (a)   Own, possess, keep or train any animal with the intent that such
animal shall be engaged in an exhibition of fighting;
         (b)   Build, make, maintain, or keep a pit on premises owned by him/
her or occupied by him/her or allow a pit to be built, made, maintained or kept
on such premises for the purposes of an exhibition of animal fighting;
         (c)   In any manner encourage, instigate, promote or assist in. an
exhibition of animal fighting or intentional combat;
         (d)   Charge admission; be an assistant, umpire or participant; or be
present as a spectator to any exhibition of animal fighting or combat.
   (B)   Any animal control officer or other officer empowered to act by law
may impound any animal found to be cruelly treated.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner to maintain in a clean and sanitary
condition and free from extreme and unreasonable objectionable odor all
structures, pens, yards, and areas adjacent thereto wherein any animal is kept.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the humane
slaughter of livestock or poultry in conformance with all applicable rules and
regulations of the State Board of Health and the United States Food and Drug
Administration.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing, as
permitted by the law of the State of Indiana and the rules and regulations of
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of commercially sold
poisons for the control of rats, mice, groundhogs, moles or other similar
rodents as long as the person using the poisons uses reasonable care to ensure
that neither domestic animals nor livestock are exposed to the poisons.
(BC Ord, 2014-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Ord. 2018-003, passed 2-20-18)
§ 90.51 GIVING AWAY LIVE ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall give away any live animals as a prize for, or as an
inducement to enter, any contest, game, or other competition; as an inducement
to enter a place of amusement; or an incentive to enter into any business
agreement in which the offer was for the purpose of attracting trade.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall preclude organizations such as 4-H and
FFA from providing its members with "breeding stock" so that said members may
participate in those organizations.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.52 STRIKING DOMESTIC ANIMAL WITH MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible and
shall immediately report such injury or death to the animal's owner. In the
event the owner cannot be ascertained or located, such operator shall at once
report the accident to Dearborn County Animal Control, the local police
department, or the Dearborn County Sheriffs Department.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.53 ANIMALS IN VEHICLES.
   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions within
that vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal. No animal shall be
transported in any open vehicle unless confined in an appropriate manner
intended to prevent the animal from jumping from the vehicle or being thrown
from the vehicle in the event of an accident or rapid stop or other use of the
vehicle which could cause injury to the animal or any humans. No animal shall
be transported in the trunk of any vehicle.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.54 EXPOSING POISONOUS SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall intentionally expose any known poisonous substance, whether
mixed with food or not, so that the same shall be eaten by a domestic animal
and/or livestock.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.65 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS AND STAFF.
   (A)   The Director of the Dearborn County Animal Control shall be appointed
by the Commission on a yearly basis and may be removed at any time for any
reason by the Commission. The Director may hire additional employees by
following the procedures outlined in the Dearborn County Employee Handbook.
   (B)   The animal control officers and staff shall maintain compliance with,
and shall be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with, the Dearborn
County Employee Handbook.
   (C)   The animal control officers and staff shall be sworn to uphold, carry
out, and supervise the enforcement of this chapter within Dearborn County
unless otherwise provided. The animal control officers and staff shall be
vested with all the powers ordinary and necessary under the law to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. These duties shall specifically include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   To educate the public concerning humane ethics, consequences of pet
overpopulation and their responsibilities of pet owners;
      (2)   An animal control officer shall have the authority to:
         (a)   Impound any animal found running at large not under direct
control, with the exception of community cats;
         (b)   Impound any dog that has bitten a person or another animal;
         (c)   Impound any vicious and dangerous dog;
         (d)   Humanely destroy any domestic or wild animal when such action is
needed to protect persons or property or to prevent suffering by the animal;
         (e)   Impound any animal showing symptoms of rabies or which has
bitten or been bitten by another animal showing symptoms of rabies;
         (f)   Impound any animal that does not display a current rabies
vaccination tag, with the exception of community cats;
         (g)   Impound any animal, including community cats, that is found to
be a public nuisance:
         (h)   Impound any whose owner(s) have been found to be in violation of
any section of this chapter.
      (3)   Have the power to issue official warnings or notices of ordinance
violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Have the power to enter private real property in fresh pursuit of
an animal to enforce this chapter;
      (5)   Make recommendations to the Commission as to necessary changes in
the chapter regarding the care, treatment and/or control of animals.
   (D)   In performing any of these duties, the animal control officer and
staff shall, however, be specifically prohibited from: entering a dwelling unit
or enclosed structure without the dwelling unit owner’s permission or being
accompanied by a law enforcement officer with a warrant authorizing the entry
except when apprehending and impounding an animal as described in divisions (A)
(2) and (A)(4) above.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Ord. 2017-014, passed 11-7-17)
§ 90.66 IMPOUNDMENT AND NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Animals shall be taken by the animal control officer and impounded in
the P.A.W.S. animal shelter or other appropriate facility and there confined in
a humane manner. In lieu of impoundment, the animal control officer may issue
to the known owner(s) of such animal a Notice of Ordinance Violation.
   (B)   Upon impounding a vicious and dangerous dog for any reason, an animal
control officer or law enforcement officer may, for reasons of public safety,
retain the dog at the P.A.W.S. animal shelter until disposition by the
appropriate court.
   (C)   If, by means of a license tag or other means, the owner(s) of an
impounded animal can be identified, the animal control officer shall
immediately upon impoundment notify the owner by telephone or certified mail.
   (D)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay any fines, expenses
and/or fees due and owing to Dearborn County Animal Control, P.A.W.S., and/or
any facility sheltering and caring for the impounded animal. Impound fees and
fines may be waived, in lieu of a return to the owner, for services that
include sterilization, rabies, booster vaccinations, and microchip.
   (E)   Any stray animal or owned animal not reclaimed by its owner within
five days after being notified of the impoundment shall become the property of
P.A.W.S. or other animal shelter facility and shall be placed for adoption in a
suitable home, transferred to a rescue partner, or humanely euthanized.
   (F)   Community cats and litters of puppies are not subject to the stray
hold period.
   (G)   Any person adopting an animal from P.A.W.S. shall pay a fee as
established by P.A.W.S.
   (H)   In the event that an ordinance violation involves a dog that has
bitten a person or another animal:
      (1)   The dog may be quarantined on the owner’s or harborer’s property,
at the discretion of Dearborn County Animal Control, if leaving the dog on the
property does not create a safety hazard and the owner or harborer can provide
records showing that the dog is up to date with all vaccinations.
      (2)   If the dog is not up to date with its vaccinations, or if Dearborn
County Animal Control does not believe it to be safe to leave the dog on the
property of the owner or harborer, the dog shall be impounded until such time
as Dearborn County Animal Control believes it is safe to return the dog or
until court proceedings have concluded and the dog has been authorized to
return to the owner or harborer.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Ord. 2015-001, passed 1-6-15; Am. BC
Ord. 2017-014, passed 11-7-17)
§ 90.67 ENFORCEMENT OF CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PROVISIONS.
   The Dearborn County animal control officers are charged with the enforcement
of the civil and criminal provisions of this chapter and the State of Indiana
working in conjunction with law enforcement officers, the Dearborn County
Planning and Zoning Department, the Dearborn County Prosecuting Attorney and
the Dearborn County Attorney.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.68 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to interfere with an animal control
officer in the performance of his/her duties.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.69 FEES AND MONEY COLLECTED.
   (A)   All fines due to a violation of this chapter shall be payable to
Dearborn County Animal Control and money so paid shall be transmitted to the
Dearborn County Treasurer and earmarked for use in operating the Dearborn
County Animal Control.
   (B)   All license and permit fees shall be payable to the Dearborn County
Animal Control. If P.A.W.S. issued the license or permit, $1 from said license
or permit shall be retained by P.A.W.S.
   (C)   All fees associated with the impoundment of the animal including, but
not limited to, shelter provided, food and water, and any necessary medical
care shall be payable to P.A.W.S. or the facility providing care for the
animal.
   (D)   Any fees associated with the reclamation of or adoption of an animal
shall be payable to P.A.W.S. or the facility providing care for the animal.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.70 ANIMAL BITES AND QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Every case of a human bitten by a domestic or wild animal shall be
reported promptly to the local health officer or his designee having
jurisdiction. It is
the duty of the person bitten or the person's parent or guardian to make the
report in conformance with title 410 IAC 1-2.3-52, as amended. Law enforcement
K-9 dogs are exempted from this section.
   (B)   Upon receiving a notice of an animal bite, the local health officer
shall notify Dearborn County Animal Control of the animal bite, who owns the
animal, and where the animal is located so that the animal control officers may
carry out their duties as outlined in this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.71 ANIMAL QUARANTINE FEES.
   (A)   If a person voluntarily or, as required by law, delivers an animal to
the Dearborn County Animal Control for the purpose of quarantining the animal,
they shall be charged a fee of $150 payable to P.A.W.S. There is an additional
fee of $20 per day for any animal not picked up after the mandatory ten-day
quarantined period. This fee does not apply to adopted animals. If the owner(s)
does not pay the quarantine fee, a possible tax lien may occur.
   (B)   Owner(s) who fail to recover their animal following the quarantine
shall be deemed to have voluntarily abandoned their animal to the custody of
P.A.W.S. and shall be liable for the aforementioned quarantine fees.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event of an ordinance violation, Dearborn County Animal Control
shall notify the owner or harborer of the animal of the ordinance violation in
writing citing the pertinent chapter section and any fines due and/or actions
needed to be taken. If the owner or harborer fails to comply, the Animal
Control Officer shall file the Ordinance violation with any Court in Dearborn
County, pursuant to local rules, as necessary to enforce the penalties of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
90.03,
90.18,
90.22,
90.23,
90.38,
90.50,
90.54, and/or
90.68 of this chapter shall commit a Class B infraction and may be fined up to
$1,000 per occurrence.
   (C)   Any person violating §§
90.16,
90.17,
90.20,
90.34,
90.37,
90.49,
90.51,
90.52,
90.53, and/or
90.70 of this chapter shall commit a Class C infraction and may be fined up to
$500 per occurrence.
   (D)   In the event that an animal is impounded by an Animal Control Officer
pursuant to this chapter, and in addition to any other penalty set out in
divisions (B) and (C) above or court costs, the owner shall reimburse the cost
associated with providing shelter for each impounded animal at an animal
control facility or the humane society.
   (E)   If the owner of the animal(s) has not paid the ordinance violation
fine within 14 days of receiving the Notice of Ordinance Violation, Dearborn
County Animal Control shall contact the Dearborn County Attorney in order to
file the ordinance violation case with the appropriate court in Dearborn
County.
   (F)   In the event a violation of §
90.16 through §
90.18 of this chapter involves a vicious and dangerous dog, any court in
Dearborn County may order the owner or harborer to obtain liability insurance
pursuant to §
90.18(E); and the court, in addition to any other penalty, may also order that
the vicious and dangerous dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian
or the Animal Control Officer, and that the owner or harborer shall pay all
expenses including, but not limited to, shelter, food, veterinary, and
destruction expenses necessitated by the seizure of the dog for the protection
of the public or violation of §
90.16 through §
90.18.
   (G)   In the event an ordinance violation also involves a dog that has
bitten a person, the 14 day “grace period” found in §
90.04(E) shall not apply and Dearborn County Animal Control shall immediately
contact the Dearborn County Attorney to begin court proceedings.
   (H)   If an owner or harborer of an animal is found to have violated this
chapter three or more times in one 12-month period, the animal(s), at the
discretion of Dearborn County Animal Control, may be forfeited to P.A.W.S. and
thereafter adopted out to a suitable home, transferred to a rescue partner, or
humanely euthanized. The owner or harborer of the animal(s) may appeal the
forfeiture of the animal to the Commission in the same manner as provided in §
90.18(F) of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2014-006, passed 6-3-14; Am. BC Res. 2014-009, passed 9-2- 14; Am. BC
Ord. 2015-001, passed 1-6-15; Am. BC Ord. 2017-014, passed 11-7-17)
CHAPTER 91: ROADS AND HIGHWAYS
Section
Dust Control Program
   
91.01   Creation of program
   
91.02   Application for placement of dust control agent on roadway surface
   
91.03   County's right to maintain roadway
   
91.04   Estimate of cost
   
91.05   Deposit of funds
Cooperative Roadway Improvement Program
   
91.15   Creation and establishment of program
   
91.16   Creation of fund
   
91.17   Purpose
   
91.18   Requirements and specifications
Fees
   
91.30   Permits
Solicitations
   
91.40   Handbills; solicitation of contributions; sales of goods or services
Cross-reference:
   County highway specifications, see §§
150.45 through
150.50
   Uniform numbering system, see §§
150.25 through
150.34
DUST CONTROL PROGRAM
§ 91.01 CREATION OF PROGRAM.
   The dust control program is hereby created.
(BC Ord. 3-1995, passed - -95)
§ 91.02 APPLICATION FOR PLACEMENT OF DUST CONTROL AGENT ON ROADWAY SURFACE.
   Through the dust control program homeowners or residents living on non-paved
roadways in the county may annually apply to the County Highway Department for
application of a dust control agent to be placed on the roadway surface in
front of their residence. In making this application, homeowners or residents
shall specify the number of lineal feet of roadway to be treated in front of
their residence. Homeowners or residents may choose coverage of up to 400 feet
to cover in front of their residence and on either side of the residence. The
specific length shall be in 100-foot increments with a minimum of 200 feet.
(BC Ord. 3-1995, passed - -95)
§ 91.03 COUNTY'S RIGHT TO MAINTAIN ROADWAY.
   The agent applied to the roadway is a dust preventative and not a permanent
surface. The county reserves the right to grade, gravel or otherwise maintain
the roadway as necessary, in discretion of County Highway Department, to
properly maintain said roadway.
(BC Ord. 3-1995, passed - -95)
§ 91.04 ESTIMATE OF COST.
   An estimate of the cost of application under the county dust control program
shall be provided to homeowners or residents at the time application is made.
The cost of application to the homeowner or residents shall be based upon one
half of the cost of the materials necessary to apply the dust control agent to
the roadway.
(BC Ord. 3-1995, passed - -95)
§ 91.05 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Funds owed by homeowners or residents shall be paid to the County
Highway Department on or before the date specified by the County Highway
Department. All sums collected under this program by homeowners or residents
shall be deposited in the County Highway Department Dust Control Fund.
   (B)   The County Highway Department Dust Control Fund is hereby established
and created.
(BC Ord. 3-1995, passed - -95)
COOPERATIVE ROADWAY IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
§ 91.15 CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.
   The County Highway Department cooperative roadway improvement program is
hereby created and established.
(BC Ord. 6-1995, passed 4-17-95)
§ 91.16 CREATION OF FUND.
   In conjunction with the County Highway Department cooperative roadway
improvement program a Highway Cooperative Roadway Fund is also hereby created
and that any funds collected under this program shall be deposited in said
Fund.
(BC Ord. 6-1995, passed 4-17-95)
§ 91.17 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this program shall be to allow for public participation
in the purchase of materials for existing county roadways to improve these
roadways with the placement of asphalt. It is further the purpose of this
program to encourage citizens to assist with the improvement of roadways
especially in subdivisions which otherwise may not be considered for
improvement.
   (B)   The program outlined herein shall only be available to homeowners or
residents and groups of homeowners or residents wishing to have improvements
made to existing county roadways upon which they live. This program shall not
be available to contractors or developers.
(BC Ord. 6-1995, passed 4-17-95)
§ 91.18 REQUIREMENTS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The requirements and specifications of this program shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Requirements.
         (a)   The roadway or section thereof to be paved shall begin at either
the intersection with another county road or at the end of a previously
asphalted roadway.
         (b)   Chip and seal shall not be permitted.
         (c)   The asphalt shall be a minimum of two inches (220#/sys) thick.
         (d)   Where possible the roadway shall be 18 feet minimum width as
paved with an existing gravel base of 19 feet wide and eight inches thick.
         (e)   The minimum length of improvement allowed is 100 feet, unless at
the end of an existing roadway.
         (f)   The minimum length to justify the use of a paver is 850 feet.
         (g)   Platted subdivisions shall be done in their entirety as platted.
      (2)   Acceptance.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an accurate and complete Form A-II (attached to
BC Ord. 6-1995 marked exhibit A and made a part hereof), the County Engineer
will:
            1.   Make a recommendation to the Commissioners as to the requested
project, including a preliminary invoice. The Commissioners will then pass a
resolution at a regularly scheduled meeting as to the acceptability of the
request and authorize issuance of a final invoice.
            2.   Send a letter to the applicant indicating the acceptability of
the project to the Commissioners and if approved by the Commissioners, include
a final invoice for the estimated amount of the project.
         (b)   Within 30 days of receipt of the required check, the applicant
shall be notified of the status of the request. If approved, an approximate
date will be given for the project. This date is very tentative and subject to
change.
         (c)   A certified check or cashier's check for the amount as indicated
by the County Engineer for the cost to the Highway Department for the estimated
quantity of asphalt and paver rental shall be submitted prior to final
acceptance by the Commissioners.
         (d)   If the request is formally approved and a final invoice is
issued, no additional cost will be passed to the applicant due to price
increases or errors in estimating, regardless of the time required to schedule
the project.
         (e)   The project shall be scheduled as quickly as possible; however,
as the Highway Department is completing the work with its own forces to reduce
cost to the applicant, no guarantee is offered that the project can be
completed sooner than approximately one year after acceptance.
         (f)   The applicant should be aware that should funding become
available in the future for similar projects, no refund will be forthcoming;
however, no other projects of similar nature shall be scheduled ahead of a
previously approved project.
         (g)   Projects shall be scheduled in the order of approval. Formal
approval by the Commissioners shall not precede receipt of the money required
for the project.
      (3)   Construction.
         (a)   The Highway Department shall make all improvements as may be
required before paving begins. These improvements shall be as determined by the
Highway Department and may include without limitation the following:
replacement/placement of pipes, berming, addition of base material, grading and
crowning of existing base material, ditching, seeding, mulching.
            1.   If a driveway presently has a pipe which is inoperative or at
an incorrect grade for a proposed ditch; the Highway Department will ditch
through the driveway salvaging the existing pipe if possible. If not possible
to salvage the pipe the property owner shall be responsible for acquiring a new
one. Replacement of driveway material is limited to asphalt or gravel. Concrete
may be placed by the property owner provided it meets the elevation of the edge
of pavement and is not raised.
            2.   If an existing driveway has no pipe but one is required or if
the existing pipe is of inadequate size for existing drainage, the Highway
Department will place the pipe; however, the property owner must supply the
pipe.
         (b)   The Highway Department shall schedule and supervise the paving
operation, including hauling and placing of material. The decision as to method
of paving shall be that of the County Highway Supervisor. Asphalt may be placed
utilizing a road grader, asphalt spreader or paver the option being that of the
County Highway Supervisor.
         (c)   A primer coat or tack coat shall be required on all projects.
The cost of the liquid asphalt shall be the responsibility of the applicant and
shall be included on the Highway Department invoice.
         (d)   The cost of the paver rental is also to be included on the final
invoice.
   (B)   The county reserves the right to vary these requirements on a job to
job basis in order to provide a more safe and functional highway system.
(BC Ord. 6-1995, passed 4-17-95)
FEES
§ 91.30 PERMITS.
   The County Highway Department shall collect the following fees for driveway
and utility permit applications:
   Driveway permit application   $25 each
   Utility permit application
      Minor cut (residential services, pole replacement, and the like)   no
charge
      Major cut (main extension, road cuts, and the like)   $150 each
(BC Ord. 2005-9, passed 6-21-05)
SOLICITATIONS
§ 91.40 HANDBILLS; SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS; SALES OF GOODS OR SERVICES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person standing, sitting, walking or
otherwise located on a highway within the county to:
      (1)   Distribute handbills, leaflets, bulletins, literature,
advertisements or similar material to occupants of motor vehicles;
      (2)   Solicit contributions of any nature from the occupants of motor
vehicles;
      (3)   Sell or attempt to sell merchandise or services to the occupants of
motor vehicles.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, HIGHWAY shall mean the entire width
between the boundary lines of every way or place open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel in the county, including streets, alleys and
medians.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a traffic infraction, punishable by a fine of $100 for
the first offense and $250 for any subsequent offense. Each separate violation
shall be considered a new offense.
(BC Ord. 2010-07, passed 11-3-10)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED RAILROAD STRUCTURES
Section
   
92.01   Scope
   
92.02   Removal of structures
   
92.03   Performance bond
   
92.04   Definitions
   
92.05   Enforcement
§ 92.01 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to any railroad bridge, overpass, trestle or
culvert which had carried a line of railroad over any roadway, stream or drain
in this county and which railroad, roadway, stream or drain is not subject to
the conflicting jurisdiction of the federal government.
(BC Ord. 20-1997, passed 12-5-97)
§ 92.02 REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Upon discontinuance of rail service over and abandonment for railroad
purposes of any segment of a line of railroad in this county, the owner of such
segment shall remove each bridge, overpass, trestle, or culvert, and all
embankments, piers, bents, and walls, on which such segment had been situated.
   (B)   The removal shall be accomplished in such a manner as will eliminate
all vertical and horizontal clearance restrictions caused by the line railroad
within the roadway right away at each roadway and within the stream, floodway
and floodway fringe at each stream or drain crossing.
(BC Ord. 20-1997, passed 12-5-97)
§ 93.03 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   Upon abandonment of any segment of a line of railroad in this county,
the owner of such segment
shall post a performance bond in such form and amount as the County Engineer
shall deem necessary to insure removal of the abandoned structures pursuant to
the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event the owner disagrees with the form or amount of the
performance bond as required by the Dearborn County Engineer, the owner may
file a petition with the Commissioner's Office stating the particulars of the
bond with which the owner disagrees and proposing new terms.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County shall set the
petition for a public hearing within 60 days of its receipt.
      (2)   At the hearing, the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County shall
determine, de novo, the reasonably expected cost of removal of the structures
subject to this chapter as well as the existence of any mitigating factors,
such as the value and nature of other assets of the owner within Dearborn
County and which are offered as security for performance.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County may retain such
expert, or experts, as they feel reasonable to assist them in consideration of
any petition filed pursuant to this chapter, with the expense therefor payable
by the owner.
      (4)   All evidence considered by the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn
County shall be entered into the public record of the hearing and the hearing
may be continued from time to time until completed.
(BC Ord. 20-1997, passed 12-5-97)
§ 92.04 DEFINITIONS.
   ABANDONMENT. Shall be presumed to occur when a segment has been abandoned
pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Commission Termination Act or successor
statutes and at least 100 continuous feet of rail has been removed without
immediate replacement.
   OWNER. Shall not include the holder, as such, of any reversionary interest
in the railroad right of way, but shall include each holder of any present or
future interest in the rail, ties or other track material located thereon.
(BC Ord. 20-1997, passed 12-5-97)
§ 92.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter, and prohibition of its violation may
be enforced by injunction in addition to such other remedies as may be
available at law or in equity.
   (B)   Violation of this chapter shall result in a fine of not more than
$2,500 per occurrence. Each day a violation occurs with regard to each
structure shall constitute a separate violation.
(BC Ord. 20-1997, passed 12-5-97)
CHAPTER 93: EXCESSIVE NOISE
Section
   
93.01   Excessive sound prohibited
   
93.02   Unreasonable noise
   
93.03   Warning
   
93.04   Exemptions
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 EXCESSIVE SOUND PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate, cause to be operated or permit to be operated
any radio television, phonograph, tape player, loud speaker, musical
instrument, siren, car alarm, whistle, bell or other sound amplification device
in such a manner and of such intensity and duration as to create unreasonable
noise or loud sound and which causes inconvenience and annoyance to persons of
ordinary sensibilities.
   (B)   No person being the owner or person in possession of a motor vehicle
with a device described above shall cause or permit any noise emanating from
the motor vehicle which is plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet from the
motor vehicle. The lawful use of a motor vehicle horn shall not be a violation
of this section.
(BC Ord. 7-1998, passed - -98)
§ 93.02 UNREASONABLE NOISE.
   In determining whether a noise is of such a character as to unreasonably
disturb the peace and quiet of the community, the following factors shall be
considered.
   (A)   Complaints of neighbors or other persons in the proximity.
   (B)   The location and time of day when the noise is produced.
   (C)   The type, intensity and duration of the noise produces.
(BC Ord. 7-1998, passed - - 98)
§ 93.03 WARNING.
   (A)   It shall be presumed to be a violation of this section if notice to
cease and desist producing a noise has been given to any person and that person
continues to make, cause or permit a noise of similar intensity and duration,
provided, however, that no warning shall be required if a person of ordinary
sensibilities knew or should have known that the noise created would cause
unwarranted annoyance to persons of ordinary sensibilities.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, a "request to desist" means actual
notice of the disturbance by a law enforcement officer to the offender or to an
employee or representative of the offender. Once such request to desist is
made, it shall continue to be given, and is effective even if the noise
disturbs persons other than the person who makes the request to desist.
(BC Ord. 7-1998, - -98)
§ 93.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Noise of safety signal, warning devices and emergency pressure relief
valves.
   (B)   Emergency vehicles when responding to or acting in time of emergency.
   (C)   Any other noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration such
as parades or festivals.
   (D)   Sounds produced in connection with normal conductio of a legally
established non-transient business or farming operation when such sounds are
customarily indicated and within normal range appropriate for such use.
(BC Ord. 7-1998, passed - -98)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates a provision of this section shall be subject to penalties
as set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
(BC Ord. 7-1998, passed - -98)
CHAPTER 94: EROSION CONTROL
Section
   
94.01   Authority
   
94.02   Findings; purpose
   
94.03   Applicability
   
94.04   Definitions
   
94.05   General principles
   
94.06   Erosion and sediment control requirements
   
94.07   Sources of assistance
   
94.08   Inspection
   
94.98   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   County Highway Department private drainage specifications and regulations,
see §
150.48
   Floodplain regulations, see
Ch. 152
§ 94.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by I.C. 36-1-4-11, 36-7-
4 et seq., and I.C. 14-32 et seq.,and all acts supplemental and mandatory
thereto. This authority provides for the administration, enforcement and
amendment of this chapter for controlling soil erosion in the county.
(BC Ord. 9-1998, passed 5-18-98; Am. BC Ord. 6-2005, passed 6-1-05)
§ 94.02 FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The county finds that soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing
activities causes a significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be
transported to locations off-site, including ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes,
reservoirs and roads.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to conserve the natural resources; to
protect the quality of air and water; and to protect and promote the health,
safety and welfare of people, to the extent practicable, by minimizing the
amount of sediment and other pollutants, resulting from soil erosion due to
land-disturbing activities from being transported off-site to adjacent public
or private lands, including ditches, streams, lakes, wetlands and reservoirs.
(BC Ord. 9-1998, passed 5-18-98; Am. BC Ord. 6-2005, passed 6-1-05)
§ 94.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter applies to all land-disturbing activities on land
within the boundaries and jurisdiction of the county.
      (2)   Agricultural land-disturbing activities, as defined in §
94.04, are exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter applies to those sites requiring any other necessary
local, state and federal permits.
(BC Ord. 9-1998, passed 5-18-98; Am. BC Ord. 6-2005, passed 6-1-05)
§ 94.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURE LAND-DISTRIBUTING ACTIVITIES. The disturbance of land for the
production of animal or plant life, including forestry, pasturing of livestock,
and planting, growing cultivating and harvesting crops for human or livestock
consumption. This does not include the construction of farm facilities such as
dwellings, barns, sheds or other structures.
   EROSION. The detachment and movement of soil, sediment or rock fragments by
water, wind, ice or gravity.
   EROSION CONTROL MEASURE. A practice or a combination of practices to control
erosion and its resulting sedimentation.
   LAND-DISTRIBUTING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land surface,
including removing cover, excavating, filling, transporting and grading.
   RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation from such sources as rainfall, snow
melt or irrigation water that flows over the ground surface.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from the site of origin.
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land-disturbing activity has been conducted.
(BC Ord. 9-1998, passed 5-18-98; Am. BC Ord. 6-2005, passed 6-1-05)
§ 94.05 GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
   The following principles apply to all land-disturbing activities within the
county.
   (A)   To minimize the potential for soil erosion, development should fit the
topography and soils of the site.
      (1)   Areas with steep slopes, where deep cuts and fills may be required,
should be avoided wherever possible.
      (2)   Natural contours should be followed as closely as possible.
   (B)   (1)   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible.
      (2)   Areas immediately adjacent to watercourses and lakes should also be
left undisturbed wherever possible.
   (C)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a reasonable sequence
so that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development.
   (D)   Provision should be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused by
changed soil and surface conditions (impervious areas) during and after
development.
   (E)   The length and/or steepness of slopes should be minimized to reduce
erosion potential.
(BC Ord. 9-1998, passed 5-18-98; Am. BC Ord. 6-2005, passed 6-1-05)
§ 94.06 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall be met on all sites:
   (A)   Appropriate erosion control measures shall be installed prior to any
land-disturbing activity, and thereafter whenever necessary.
   (B)   Sediment-laden water flowing from the site shall be detained by
erosion control measures appropriate to minimize sedimentation.
   (C)   Water shall not be discharged from the site in a manner that causes
erosion at or downstream of the point of discharge.
   (D)   All access to disturbed sites that crosses natural watercourses,
ditches, drainage easements, or swales/channels shall have a culvert of
appropriate size or low water crossing that does not impede the flow of water.
   (E)   (1)   Wastes or unused building materials, including but not limited
to, garbage, debris, cleaning wastes, wastewater, toxic materials and hazardous
substances, shall not be carried by runoff from a site.
      (2)   All wastes shall be disposed of in a proper manner.
   (F)   (1)   Soil being tracked from a site onto public or private roadways
shall be minimized.
      (2)   This can be accomplished by a temporary gravel construction
entrance.
   (G)   All storm drain inlets shall be protected against sedimentation.
   (H)   Where practical, runoff passing through a site from adjacent areas
should be controlled by diverting it around disturbed areas within the site.
      (1)   Diverted runoff shall be conveyed in a manner that will not erode
the channel and receiving areas.
      (2)   Alternatively, the existing channel may be left undisturbed or
improved to prevent erosion or sedimentation from occurring.
   (I)   During the entire period of land-disturbing activity at a site, the
owner of the site shall maintain erosion control measures necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter until the entire site is stabilized.
   (J)   Control erosion on all construction sites (see definitions in §
94.04).
(BC Ord. 9-1998, passed 5-18-98; Am. BC Ord. 6-2005, passed 6-1-05) Penalty,
see §
94.99
§ 94.07 SOURCES OF ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   Soil and Water Conservation District (SWCD) office.
   (B)   Cooperative Extension Service.
   (C)   Private consultants (a list can be obtained from SWCD or Cooperative
Extension Service).
(BC Ord. 9-1998, passed 5-18-98; Am. BC Ord. 6-2005, passed 6-1-05)
§ 94.08 INSPECTION.
   The Building Commissioner, or his or her representative, may enter the site
to verify compliance with this chapter.
(BC Ord. 9-1998, passed 5-18-98; Am. BC Ord. 6-2005, passed 6-1-05)
§ 94.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Erosion control inspection will be performed with each building
inspection.
   (B)   (1)   A written warning in the form of a yellow “Rejected” tag
identifying the corrective time frame will be given with the first violation.
      (2)   The yellow "Rejected" tag will have the phone number of the County
SWCD for technical assistance.
   (C)   A SWCD representative will investigate the incident at the site after
being contacted by the property owner or the property owner's agent.
      (1)   The SWCD representative will make corrective recommendations to the
property owner or the property owner's agent.
      (2)   The SWCD representative will send a copies of the recommendations
to the Building Commissioner and to the property owner or the property owner's
agent.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner, or his or her representative, will complete
a follow up investigation after the “Rejected” tag has expired, or after he or
she has been contacted by the property owner or the property owner's agent,
whichever comes first.
      (1)   At this follow up investigation, the Building Commissioner, or his
or her representative, will determine compliance or non-compliance.
      (2)   If the site is found to be in compliance, no further enforcement
action will be taken.
   (E)   If after the second site inspection continued non-compliance is
determined, the Building Commissioner will issue a non-compliance citation to
the property owner.
   (F)   Appeal of the revocation of an improvement location permit and civil
penalties may be in accordance with the county building ordinance.
(BC Ord. 9-1998, passed 5-18-98; Am. BC Ord. 6-2005, passed 6-1-05)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The non-compliance citation, referred to in §
94.98(E), will include a stop work order and a civil penalty of no less than
$100 and no more than $250.
   (B)   If, within 30 days after the issuance of a stop work order, a permit
holder does not comply with the requirements of this chapter, the Building
Commissioner may revoke the building permit and issue a civil penalty of no
less than $500 and no more than $750.
   (C)   Civil penalties shall be collected by the Building Department and
deposited into the County General Fund.
(BC Ord. 9-1998, passed 5-18-98; Am. BC Ord. 6-2005, passed 6-1-05)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Policy statement
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in residential real estate related transactions
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
95.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
95.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
95.10   Exemptions
   
95.11   Administrative enforcement of ordinance
   
95.12   Severability
§ 95.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of Dearborn County, Indiana to provide, within
constitutional limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as
provided for under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the
federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-
9.5-1 et seq.
(BC Ord. 11-2004, passed 12-20- 04; Am. BC Ord. 2019-018, passed 10-15-19)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who claims to have been injured by a
discriminatory housing practice or believes that the person will be injured by
a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-2).
   COMMISSION. Refers to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission or to a local
agency designated by an ordinance adopted under I.C. 22-9.5-4-1 (see I.C. 22-
9.5-2-3).
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6 (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-4).
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under sections §§
95.04,
95.05,
95.06,
95.07, or
95.08 of this chapter or under I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-8).
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of familial status
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in this section (see I.C. 22-9.5-2-9).
   HANDICAP.
      (1)    With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 Indiana Administrative Code
2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of
the United States Code; nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely
because individual is a transvestite (see 910 Indiana Administrative Code 2-3-2
(14)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and fiduciaries
(see I.C. 22-9.5-2-11).
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, or to otherwise to grant
for a consideration the rights to occupy the premises not owned by the occupant
(see I.C. 22-9.5-2-13).
(BC Ord. 11-2004, passed 12-20- 04; Am. BC Ord. 2019-018, passed 10-15-19)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) of this section, §
95.09 of this chapter, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing as set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
95.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) of this section and
I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) of this section, nothing in
§
95.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(C) of this chapter, but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his/her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B), a person shall be deemed to be in
the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as an
agent, other than in the sale of his/her own personal residence, in providing
sales or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving
the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(BC Ord. 11-2004, passed 12-20- 04; Am. BC Ord. 2019-018, passed 10-15-19)
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
95.03 and except as exempted by §
95.03(B) and §
95.09 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published, any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status,
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or
discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce, any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of the sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services
or facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   (1)   For purposes of this section, discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the exterior and the interior of the premises
to the condition that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and
tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered
multiple-family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months
after September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in
such a manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.    Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.    Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (2)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as "ANSI A117.1") suffices to satisfy the requirements
of §
95.04(H)(1)(c)3.c.
      (3)   Nothing in division (H) requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
and/or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(BC Ord. 11-2004, passed 12-20- 04; Am. BC Ord. 2019-018, passed 10-15-19)
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction or, in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term "residential real estate related
transaction" means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real estate
property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property from taking into consideration factors
other than race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(BC Ord. 11-2004, passed 12-20- 04; Am. BC Ord. 2019-018, passed 10-15-19)
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him/her in
the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(BC Ord. 11-2004, passed 12-20- 04; Am. BC Ord. 2019-018, passed 10-15-19)
§ 95.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his/her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his/her having aided or encouraged any
other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by
§§
95.03,
95.04,
95.05, or
95.06 of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 11-2004, passed 12-20- 04; Am. BC Ord. 2019-018, passed 10-15-19)
§ 95.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates, or interferes with, or attempts to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his/her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he/she is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, contracting, or negotiating for the
sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any dwelling, or applying
for or participating in any service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he/she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A);
or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protections so to participate; or
   (C)   Any citizen because he/she is or has been, or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A),
or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state, and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(BC Ord. 2019-018, passed 10-15-19)
§ 95.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of
"family" is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived
sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(BC Ord. 2019-018, passed 10-15- 19)
§ 95.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to
its members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, "housing for
older persons" means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the Indiana Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program); or
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(BC Ord. 11-2004, passed 12-20- 04; Am. BC Ord. 2019-018, passed 10-15-19)
§ 95.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commission as set forth in
division (B) hereof shall be vested in the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn
County, Indiana.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, Dearborn County,
Indiana, because of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully
administer enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under this
chapter, herein elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Board of
Commissioners of Dearborn County, Indiana shall refer all said complaints to
the Commission as provided for under division (A) of this section to said
Commission for purposes of investigation, resolution, and appropriate relief as
provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All departments and agencies of Dearborn County, Indiana shall
administer their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and
urban development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this
chapter and shall cooperate with the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County,
Indiana and the Commission to further such purposes.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County, Indiana, or its
designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(BC Ord. 11-2004, passed 12-20- 04; Am. BC Ord. 2019-018, passed 10-15-19)
§ 95.12 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances shall be determined to be invalid, the remainder of this chapter
and the application of its provisions to other persons not similarly situated
or to other circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(BC Ord. 2019-018, passed 10-15-19)
CHAPTER 96: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
96.01   Burning ban
§ 96.01 BURNING BAN.
   (A)   The President of the Board of Commissioners may declare, pursuant to
I.C. 10-14-3-29, that a state of emergency exists necessitating a burn ban in
Dearborn County and invoke and declare those portions of the Indiana Code which
are applicable to the conditions and invoke the full force and effect of this
section in Dearborn County, Indiana, and the exercise of all necessary
emergency authority for the protection of lives and property of the people of
Dearborn County, Indiana. Such declaration by the President of the Board of
Commissioners of Dearborn County, Indiana shall be in full force and effect
until the next meeting of the Board of Commissioners of Dearborn County, at
which meeting the Board shall either reject the declaration or ratify the
declaration. If rejected, the burn ban shall expire immediately; and, if
confirmed, it shall continue in full force until the Board declares the end of
the emergency which led to the declaration.
   (B)   Upon issuance of the declaration the following activities may be
prohibited in Dearborn County, Indiana:
      (1)   Campfires and any other form of recreational fire unless said fires
are enclosed in a fire ring measuring at least 23 inches in diameter and ten
inches or more in height.
      (2)   Open burning of any kind using wood or any other combustible
matter, with the exception of cooking grills fueled by charcoal briquettes or
propane gas. Charcoal from permitted grills shall not be removed from a grill
until the charcoal has been thoroughly extinguished.
      (3)   Open burning of any kind of debris, such as timber, vegetation,
building construction waste or otherwise, with the exception of burning barrels
with a one-quarter inch mesh top and said burning shall be permitted from dawn
to dusk only.
      (4)   Subject to I.C. 22-11-14-10.5, the usage of consumer fireworks.
   (C)   Any individual or entity found in violation of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $200 but not more than $1,000, plus
applicable court costs.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-11-14-10.5, the prohibition on usage of consumer
fireworks found in §
96.01(B)(4) shall only apply to the unincorporated areas of Dearborn County.
Additionally, the usage of consumer fireworks may not be prohibited by §
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29, June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July
9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (E)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS is defined by I.C. 22-11-14-1 as follows:
      (1)   A small firework that is designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that is required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR 1507. The term also includes
some small devices designed to produce an audible effect, such as whistling
devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive
composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive
composition. Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of
charcoal, sulfur, and potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to
produce an audible effect. Consumer fireworks include:
         (a)   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines, and shells;
         (b)   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes, and
chasers; and
         (c)   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects
described in §
96.01(E)(1)(a) and (b) above.
      (2)   CONSUMER FIREWORKS does not include the following items:
         (a)   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers. However, total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed 100 grams per item. Devices containing chlorate or
perchlorate salts may not exceed five grams in total composition per item;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountains;
         (c)   Cone fountains;
         (d)   Illuminating torches;
         (e)   Wheels;
         (f)   Ground spinners;
         (g)   Flitter sparklers;
         (h)   Snakes or glow worms;
         (i)   Smoke devices; and
         (j)   Trick noisemakers, which includes: party poppers, booby traps,
snappers, trick matches, cigarette loads, and auto burglar alarms.
   (F)   All public officials and employees of Dearborn County, Indiana, are
hereby called upon to exercise the utmost diligence and discharge of duties
required of them for the duration of the emergency and in the execution of
laws, regulations, and directives whether state and/or local.
   (G)   All Dearborn County, Indiana, residents are hereby called upon and
directed to comply with emergency management measures, to cooperate with public
officials and disaster services forces in executing emergency management plans
and to obey and comply with the lawful directions of properly identified
officers.
(BC Ord. 2010-06, passed 10-19- 10; Am. BC Ord. 2019-015, passed 10-15-19)
CHAPTER 97: BROADBAND READY COMMUNITY
Section
   
97.01   Purpose; intention
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Procedure for application review and permit issuance
§ 97.01 PURPOSE; INTENTION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a procedure to review
applications and issue permits for broadband projects located within the
unincorporated areas of Dearborn County, Indiana (the "County") so that the
county may be designated a "Broadband Ready Community".
   (B)   It is the intention of this chapter to abide by the requirements of
I.C. 5-28-28.5 as said chapter may be amended from time to time.
(BC Ord. 2022-017, passed 11-15-22)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-28-28.5-0.5, BROADBAND SERVICES includes services,
including voice, video, and data, that provide capacity for transmission of
more than 384 kilobits per second in at least one direction regardless of the
technology or medium used, including wireless, copper wire, fiber optic cable,
or coaxial cable. If voice transmission capacity is offered in conjunction with
other services using transmission of more than 384 kilobits per second, the
voice transmission capacity may be less than 384 kilobits per second.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-28-28.5-2, PERMIT means any local, state, or
federal agency permit, license, certificate approval, registration, or similar
form of approval required by statute, administrative rule, regulation,
ordinance, or resolution with respect to a project.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-28-28.5-3, PROJECT means the construction or
deployment of wireline or wireless communications facilities to provide
communications services (as defined in I.C. 8-1-32.5-3) within the
unincorporated areas of the County.
(BC Ord. 2022-017, passed 11-15-22)
§ 97.03 PROCEDURE FOR APPLICATION REVIEW AND PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Prior to applying for the necessary permits for any project governed
by this chapter, all approvals and requirements of the County's Advisory Plan
Commission and/or the County's Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals such as, but
not limited to, variances and/or conditional uses, must be obtained by the
applicant.
   (B)   After acquiring all of the required zoning approvals, and as required
by I.C. 5-28-28.5-7, the following procedure shall apply for the review of
applications and the issuance of permits for projects that are subject to this
chapter:
      (1)   One Dearborn, Inc. (http://www. 1dearborn.org) shall be the single
point of contact for all matters related to any project located within the
unincorporated areas of the county.
      (2)   All applications related to any project will be reviewed and either
approved or rejected within ten business days after an application is
submitted.
      (3)   All inspections, including necessary approvals, related to a
project will occur in a timely and expeditious manner.
      (4)   All forms, applications, and documentation related to a project is
authorized to be filed and signed by electronic means.
   (C)   Any projects that are subject to this chapter must also comply with
all other applicable ordinances found in the Dearborn County, Indiana Code of
Ordinances, the Dearborn County Zoning Ordinance, and/or the Dearborn County
Subdivision Control Ordinance.
   (D)   The procedures established by this section shall not do the following:
      (1)   Require an applicant to designate a final contractor to complete a
project.
      (2)   Impose a fee to review an application or issue a permit for a
project.
      (3)   Impose a seasonal moratorium on the issuance of permits for a
project.
      (4)   Discriminate among communications service providers or utilities
with respect to any action described in this chapter or otherwise related to a
project, including granting access to public rights-of-way, infrastructure and
poles, river and bridge crossings, and any other physical assets owned or
controlled by the county.
(BC Ord. 2022-017, passed 11-15-22)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
111.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Food Service Establishments
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Permit requirements
   
110.03   State Board of Health requirements; compliance
   
110.04   Sale of unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded food
   
110.05   Inspections; enforcement actions of Health Officer
   
110.06   Inspection and enforcement pertaining to temporary food-service
establishments
Retail Food Stores
   
110.20   Title
   
110.21   Definitions
   
110.22   Permit requirements
   
110.23   State Board of Health requirements; compliance
   
110.24   Sale of unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded food
   
110.25   Disease control
   
110.26   Inspections; enforcement actions of Health Officer
   
110.27   Inspections of temporary retail food stores
Retail Food Establishment Permit Fees
   
110.40   Title
   
110.41   Definitions
   
110.42   Permit fees
Retail Food Establishment and/or Bed and Breakfast Establishment
   
110.60   Purpose
   
110.61   Definitions
   
110.62   Permits
   
110.63   Permit fees
   
110.64   Inspection
   
110.65   Compliance and enforcement
   
110.66   Appeals
   
110.67   Conflict of interest
 
   
110.99   Penalty
FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULTERATED AND MISBRANDED. The meanings as provided in IAC 16-1-29.
   COMMISSARY. A catering establishment, restaurant, or any other place in
which food, containers, or supplies are kept, handled, prepared, packaged, or
stored.
   CORROSION-RESISTANT MATERIAL. A material which maintains its original
surface characteristics under prolonged influence of the food, cleaning
compounds, and sanitizing solutions which may contact it.
   COUNTY. Those rural and urban areas which are under the jurisdiction of the
Dearborn County Health Officer.
   EASILY CLEANABLE. Readily accessible and of such material and finish, and so
fabricated that residue may be completely removed by normal cleaning methods.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person working in a food-service establishment who transports
food or food containers, who engages in food preparation or service, or who
comes in contact with any food, food utensils or equipment.
   EQUIPMENT. All stoves, ranges, hoods, tables, counters, food or utensil
carts, refrigerators, sinks, dishwashing machines, steam tables, and similar
items, other than utensils, used in the operation of a food-service
establishment.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked, or processed edible substances, beverages or
ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human
consumption.
   FOOD-CONTACT SURFACES. Those surfaces of equipment and utensils with which
food normally comes in contact, and those surfaces with which food may come in
contact and drain back into food or onto surfaces normally in contact with
food.
   FOOD-PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial establishment in which food is
processed or otherwise prepared, packaged, or manufactured for human
consumption.
   FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any place where food is prepared and intended
for individual portion service and includes the site at which the individual
portions are provided. The term includes any such place regardless of whether
consumption is on or off the premises and regardless of whether there is a
charge for the food. The term also includes delicatessen type operations that
prepare sandwiches intended for individual portion service. The term does not
include private homes where food is prepared or served for individual family
consumption, retail food stores, the location of food vending machines, and
supply vehicles.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer or his duly authorized
representative.
   HERMETICALLY SEALED. Free of cracks or other openings which permit the entry
or passage of moisture.
   KITCHENWARE. All multi-use utensils other than tableware used in the
storage, preparation, conveying, or serving of foods.
   MOBILE FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any food service establishment capable of
being readily moved from location to location, one without a fixed location.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. The individual present in a food-service establishment who
is the apparent supervisor of the food-service establishment at the time of
inspection. If no individual is the apparent supervisor, then any employee
present is the person in charge.
   POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD. Any food that consists in whole or in part of
milk or milkproducts, eggs, meat, poultry, fish, shellfish, edible crustacea,
or other ingredients in a form capable of supporting growth of infectious or
toxigenic micro-organisms. The term does not include clean, whole, uncracked,
odor-free shell eggs or foods which have a pH level of 4.6 or below or a water
activity (AW) value of .85 or less.
   PUSHCART. A non-self propelled vehicle limited to serving non potentially
hazardous foods or commissary-wrapped foods maintained at a proper temperature,
or limited to the preparation.
   REGULATORY AUTHORITY. The state and/or local enforcement authority having
jurisdiction over the food-service establishment.
   SAFE TEMPERATURES. Food temperatures of 45°F. or below, and 140°F. or above.
   SANITIZE. Effective bactericidal treatment of clean surfaces of equipment
and utensils by a process which has been approved by the Health Officer as
being effective in destroying micro-organisms, including pathogens.
   SINGLE-SERVICE ARTICLES. Cups, containers, lids, or closures, plates,
knives, forks, spoons, stirrers, paddles, straws, place mats, napkins, doilies,
wrapping materials, and all similar articles which are constructed wholly or in
part from paper, paperboard, molded pulp, foil, wood, plastic, synthetic, or
other readily destructible materials, and which are intended by the
manufacturers and generally recognized by the public as for one usage only,
then to be discarded.
   TABLEWARE. All multi-use eating and drinking utensils, including flatware
(knives, forks, and spoons).
   TEMPORARY FOOD-SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any food-service establishment which
operates for a temporary period of time, not to exceed two weeks, in connection
with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition, or similar transitory
gathering.
   UTENSIL. Any tableware and kitchenware used in the storage, preparation,
conveying or serving of food.
   WHOLESOME. In sound condition, clean, free from adulteration, and otherwise
suitable for use as human food.
(BC Ord. 11-1984, passed 12-18-84)
§ 110.02 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food-service
establishment, mobile food-service establishment or temporary food-service
establishment in the county, who does not possess a valid permit from the
Health Officer. Such permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place in such
food-service establishment, mobile food-service establishment or temporary
food-service establishment. Only persons who comply with the applicable
requirements of this subchapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such a
permit. The permit for a food-service establishment and a mobile food-service
establishment shall be for a term of one year beginning January 1 and expiring
December 31 of the same year and shall be renewed annually. The permit for a
temporary food-service establishment shall be for the term of one continuous
operation. Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the name and
address of the person to whom the permit is granted, the address of the
premises for which the same is issued, and such other pertinent data as may be
required by the Health Officer.
   (B)   A separate permit shall be required for each food-service
establishment, mobile food-service establishment or temporary food-service
establishment operated or to be operated by any person. A permit issued under
this chapter is not transferable.
   (C)   A permit shall be issued to any person on application after inspection
and approval by the Health Officer; provided, that the food-service
establishment, mobile food-service establishment or temporary food-service
establishment complies with all the applicable provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   A fee of $25 shall be paid by the applicant to the County Health
Officer at the time said permit is issued. Such fee shall revert to the County
Health Board Fund.
   (E)   Any person who desires to operate a temporary food-service
establishment in the county shall secure a permit from the Health Officer for a
temporary food-service establishment. A fee of $5 shall be paid by the
applicant to the County Health Officer at the time said permit is issued. Such
fee shall revert to the County Health Board Fund.
   (F)   A separate permit shall be required for each food-service
establishment or temporary food-service establishment operated or to be
operated by any person. A permit issued under this subchapter is not
transferable.
   (G)   No permit or renewal thereof shall be denied or revoked on arbitrary
or capricious grounds.
   (H)   No permit shall be required and no fee shall be paid for food-service
establishments, mobile food-service establishments or temporary food-service
establishments operated by religious, educational, or charitable organizations.
(BC Ord. 11-1984, passed 12-18-84)
§ 110.03 STATE BOARD OF HEALTH REQUIREMENTS; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All food-service establishments, mobile food-service establishments,
and temporary food-service establishments shall comply with the minimum
requirements specified by the Indiana State Board of Health as now provided in
Food-Service Sanitation Requirements, Rule 410 IAC 7-15.1, or as the same may
be hereafter changed or amended. Such regulation and any changes and amendments
thereto which may be hereafter adopted or promulgated are by reference
incorporated herein and made part of, two copies of which are on file in the
office of the Auditor of Dearborn County, Lawrenceburg, Indiana, for public
inspection.
   (B)   All food-service establishments and mobile food-service establishments
which are hereafter construed or altered shall conform with the applicable
requirements set forth in division (A) above. Properly prepared plans and
specifications shall be submitted to and approved by the Health Officer as may
be required before starting any construction work.
(BC Ord. 11-1984, passed 12-18-84) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 SALE OF UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED OR MISBRANDED FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell through a food-service
establishment, mobile food-service establishment or temporary food-service
establishment any food which is unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded.
   (B)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the Health Officer as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from contamination,
adulteration, or misbranding. The Health Officer may, on written notice to the
owner or operator, impound and forbid the sale of any food which is
unwholesome, adulterated, or misbranded, or which he has probable cause to
believe is unfit for human consumption, unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded;
provided, that in the case of misbranding which can be corrected by proper
labeling, such food may be released to the operator for correct labeling under
the supervision of the Health Officer. The Health Officer may also cause to be
removed or destroyed any dairy product, meat, meat product, seafood, poultry,
poultry product, confectionery, bakery product, vegetable, fruit or unsound, or
contain any filthy, decomposed, or putrid substance, or that may be poisonous
or deleterious to health or otherwise unsafe.
(BC Ord. 11-1984, passed 12-18-84) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 INSPECTIONS; ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS OF HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   Frequency of inspection. At least once each three months, the Health
Officer shall inspect each food-service establishment and mobile food-service
establishment for which a permit is required under the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Procedure when violations noted. If during the inspection of any food-
service establishment or mobile food-service establishment, the Health Officer
discovers the violation of any of the requirements in §
110.03 of this subchapter, he shall issue a written order listing such
violations to the proprietor or, in his absence, to the person in charge, and
fixing a time within which the said proprietor of said food-service
establishment or mobile food-service establishment shall abate and remedy such
violations. A copy of the written order shall be filed with the records of the
Health Department.
   (C)   Authority to inspect and to copy records.  The person operating the
food-service establishment or mobile food-service establishment shall, upon the
request of the Health Officer permit such Health Officer or his authorized
representative access to all parts of such food-service establishment or mobile
food-service establishment and shall permit the Health Officer or his
authorized representative to collect evidence and/or exhibits and to copy any
or all records relative to the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (D)   Final inspection-prosecution of hearing for violators. If upon a
second and final inspection the Health Officer finds that such food-service
establishment or mobile food-service establishment, person, or employee is
violating any of the provisions of this subchapter which were in violation on
the previous inspection, and concerning which a written order was issued, the
Health Officer shall furnish evidence of the violation to the prosecutor having
jurisdiction in the county in which the violation occurs, and he shall
prosecute all persons violating said provisions of this subchapter; or the
Health Officer may promptly issue a written order to the permittee of such
food-service establishment to appear at a certain time, no later than ten days
from the date of final inspection, and at a place in said county fixed in said
order to show cause why the permit issued under the provisions of §
110.02(A) should not be revoked.
   (E)   Revocation of permit. The Health Officer upon such hearing, if the
permittee should fail to show cause, shall revoke said permit and promptly give
written notice of such action to the permittee. The Health Officer shall
maintain a permanent record of these proceedings filed in the office of the
Health Department.
   (F)   Suspension of permit. Any permit issued under this subchapter may be
temporarily suspended by the Health Officer without notice or hearing for a
period of not to exceed 30 days, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Unsanitary or other conditions which in the Health Officer's
opinion endangers the public health;
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer or any of his authorized
representatives in the performance of their duties; provided, however, that
upon written application from the permittee, served upon the Health Officer
within 15 days after such suspension, the Health Officer shall conduct a
hearing upon the matter after giving at least five days written notice of the
time, place, and purpose thereof to the suspended permittee; provided, further,
that any such suspension order shall be issued by the Health Officer in writing
and served upon the permittee by leaving a copy at his usual place of business
or by delivery of registered or certified mail to such address.
   (G)   Reinstatement of permit. Any person whose permit has been suspended
may at any time make application to the Health Officer for the reinstatement of
his permit.
(BC Ord. 11-1984, passed 12-18-84)
§ 110.06 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT PERTAINING TO TEMPORARY FOOD-SERVICE
ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Frequency of inspection. At least once in each 24-hour period, the
Health Officer shall inspect each temporary food-service establishment for
which a permit is required under the provision of this subchapter.
   (B)   Procedure to follow when any violation noted. If during the inspection
of any temporary food-service establishment the Health Officer discovers the
violation of any of the requirements in §
110.03, he shall order the immediate correction of the violation.
   (C)   Authority to inspect and to copy records. The person operating the
temporary food-service establishment shall, upon the request of the Health
Officer, permit such Health Officer or his authorized representative access to
all parts of the temporary food-service establishment and shall permit
collecting evidence and/or exhibits and copying any or all records relative to
the enforcement of this subchapter.
   (D)   Revocation of permit and penalties for continued operation. Upon
failure of any person maintaining or operating a temporary food-service
establishment to comply with any order of the Health Officer, it shall be the
duty of the Health Officer summarily to revoke the permit of such person and
establishment and to forbid the further sale or serving of food therein. Any
person continuing to sell or serve food in such temporary food-service
establishment, the permit of which has been revoked, shall be subject to the
penalties provided in §
110.99.
(BC Ord. 11-1984, passed 12-18-84)
RETAIL FOOD STORES
§ 110.20 TITLE.
   The title of this subchapter shall be Retail Food Store Ordinance.
(BC Ord. 7-1986, passed 8-19-86)
§ 110.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULTERATED AND MISBRANDED. The meanings as provided in IAC 16-1-29.
   BOARD OF HEALTH. The Board of Health having jurisdiction in Dearborn County,
State of Indiana.
   EMPLOYEE. The permit holder, individual having supervisory or management
duties, person on the payroll, family member, volunteer, person performing work
under contractual agreement, or any other person working in a food store.
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked, or processed edible substance or beverage or
ingredient used or intended for use or for sale in whole or in part for human
consumption.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The appointed Health Officer, the acting Health Officer, or
the Health Officer's authorized representative.
   HERMETICALLY SEALED CONTAINER. A container which is designed and intended to
be secure against the entry of microorganisms and to maintain the commercial
sterility of its contents after processing.
   MOBILE RETAIL FOOD STORE. Any retail food store capable of being readily
moved from location to location, one without a fixed location.
   POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOODS. Any food that consists in whole or in part of
milk or milk products, eggs, meat, poultry, fish, shellfish, edible crustacea,
or other ingredients, including synthetic ingredients, and which is in a form
capable of supporting rapid and progressive growth of infectious or toxigenic
micro-organisms. The term does not include: clean, whole, uncracked, odor-free
shell eggs; or food products that have a pH level of 4.6 or below, or a water
activity (aw) value of 0.85 or less under standard conditions; or food products
in hermetically sealed containers processed to prevent spoilage.
   RETAIL FOOD STORE. Any establishment or section of an establishment where
food or food products are offered to the consumer and intended for off premise
consumption. The term includes delicatessens that offer prepared food in bulk
quantities only. The term does not include establishments which handle only
prepackaged, non-potentially hazardous foods; roadside markets that offer only
fresh fruits and fresh vegetables for sale; food service establishments; or
food and beverage vending machines.
   TEMPORARY RETAIL FOOD STORE. Any retail food store which operates for a
period not to exceed 14 days, in connection with a fair, carnival, public
exhibition, or similar transitory gathering.
   UNWHOLESOME. Detrimental to physical well being, unsound condition, filthy,
adulterated or otherwise unsuitable for human consumption.
(BC Ord. 7-1986, passed 8-19-86)
§ 110.22 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a retail food store,
mobile food store, or temporary retail food store in the county without a valid
permit from the Health Officer. Such permit shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in the establishment. The permit for a retail food store and mobile
retail food store shall be for a term of one year and must be renewed annually.
The permit for a temporary retail food store shall be for a term of one
continuous operation not to exceed 14 days duration. Any permit issued by the
Health Officer will contain the name and address of the establishment, the
person to whom the permit is granted, and any other pertinent information as
may be required by the Health Officer.
   (B)   A separate permit shall be required for each retail food store, mobile
retail food store, or temporary retail food store operated or to be operated by
any person. A permit issued under this subchapter is not transferable.
   (C)   A permit shall be issued to any person upon application, after
inspection and approval by the Health Officer, provided that the establishment
complies with all the applicable provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   A fee of $15 each, or in an amount as established by the County Board
of Health, shall be paid by the applicant to the County Health Officer at the
time a retail food store or mobile retail food store permit is issued. Such fee
shall revert to the County Health Fund.
   (E)   Any person who desires to operate a temporary retail food store in the
county shall secure a permit from the Health Officer for such establishment. A
fee of $3 each, or in an amount as established by the County Board of Health,
shall be paid by the applicant at the time said permit is issued. Such fee
shall revert to the County Health Fund.
   (F)   Permits or permit renewals shall not be denied or revoked on arbitrary
or capricious grounds.
   (G)   No permit shall be required and no fee shall be paid for a retail food
store, mobile retail food store, or temporary retail food store, which is
operated by religious, educational or charitable organizations.
(BC Ord. 7-1986, passed 8-19-86)
§ 110.23 STATE BOARD OF HEALTH REQUIREMENTS; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The following minimum requirements shall apply to retail food store
establishments: All retail food stores, mobile food stores, or temporary retail
food stores shall comply with the minimum sanitation requirements specified by
the Indiana State Board of Health as now provided in Retail Food Store
Sanitation Requirements 410 IAC 7-16.1, or as the same may be hereafter changed
or amended. Such regulation and any changes and amendments thereto, which may
be hereafter adopted or promulgated, are by reference incorporated herein and
made part of, two copies of which are on file in the office of the County
Auditor, Lawrenceburg, Indiana, for public inspection.
   (B)   All retail food stores and mobile retail food stores which are
hereafter constructed or altered shall conform with the applicable requirements
set forth in division (A) above. Properly prepared plans and specifications
shall be submitted to and approved by the Health Officer as may be required
before commencement of any construction work.
(BC Ord. 7-1986, passed 8-19-86)
§ 110.24 SALE OF UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED, OR MISBRANDED FOOD.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell through a retail food
store, mobile retail food store, or temporary retail food store, any food which
is unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded.
   (B)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the Health Officer as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from contamination,
unwholesomeness, adulteration or misbranding. The Health Officer may on written
notice to the owner or operator, impound, embargo, and forbid the sale of any
food which is unwholesome, adulterated or misbranded; or which he has probable
cause to believe is unfit for human consumption, unwholesome, adulterated or
misbranded; provided that in the case of misbranding such food may be released
to the owner or operator for proper labeling under the supervision of the
Health Officer.
(BC Ord. 7-1986, passed 8-19-86)
§ 110.25 DISEASE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person who is affected with any disease in a communicable form or
is a carrier of such disease shall work in any retail food store, and no retail
food store shall employ any such person believed to be affected with any
disease in a communicable form or of being a carrier of such disease. If a
retail food store manager has reason to believe that any employee has
contracted any disease in a communicable form or has become a carrier of such
disease, he shall notify the Health Officer immediately.
   (B)   When the Health Officer has reason to believe there exists a
possibility of transmission of disease infection from any person who works in a
retail food store, the Health Officer may require any or all of the following
measures:
      (1)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all retail food
stores.
      (2)   The immediate closing of the retail food store concerned until no
further danger of disease outbreak exists in the opinion of the Health Officer.
      (3)   Adequate medical examination of the employee and of his associates
with such laboratory examinations as may be indicated.
(BC Ord. 7-1986, passed 8-19-86)
§ 110.26 INSPECTIONS; ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS OF HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   Frequency of inspection. The Health Officer shall conduct periodic
inspections of all retail food stores for which a permit is required; the
frequency of inspections shall be at least each nine months.
   (B)   Authority to inspect and copy records. The person operating the retail
food store shall, upon the request of the Health Officer, permit such Health
Officer or his authorized representative access to all parts of such food
market and shall permit the Health Officer or his authorized representative to
collect evidence and/or exhibits and to copy any or all records relative to the
enforcement of this subchapter.
   (C)   Procedure when violations noted. If during the inspection of any
retail food store, the Health Officer discovers the violation of any of the
sanitation requirements in §
110.23, he shall issue a written order listing such violations to the owner, or
in his absence the person in charge and fixing a time within which the said
owner shall abate and remedy such violations.
   (D)   Final inspection; prosecution or hearing for violators. If upon a
second and final inspection, the Health Officer finds that such retail food
store, person or employee is violating any of the provisions of this subchapter
which were in violation on the previous inspection, and concerning which a
written order was issued, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence to the
prosecutor having jurisdiction in the county in which the violation occurs, and
he shall prosecute all persons violating said provisions of this subchapter; or
the Health Officer may promptly issue a written order to the permittee of such
retail food store to appear at a certain time, no later than ten days from the
final inspection, and at a place in said county, in said order to show cause
why the permit issued under the provisions of §
110.22 should not be revoked.
   (E)   Revocation of permit. The Health Officer upon such hearing, if the
permittee should fail to show cause, shall revoke said permit and promptly give
written notice of such action to the permittee. The Health Officer shall
maintain a permanent record of these proceedings filed in the office of the
County Health Department.
   (F)   Suspension of permit. Any permit issued under this subchapter may be
temporarily suspended by the Health Officer without notice or hearing for a
period of not to exceed 30 days, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Insanitary or other conditions which in the opinion of the Health
Officer endangers the health of the public;
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer or any of his authorized
representatives in the performance of their duties; provided, however, that
upon written application from the permittee, served upon the Health Officer
within 15 days after such suspension, the Health Officer shall conduct a
hearing upon the matter after giving at least five days written notice of the
time, place, and purpose thereof to the suspended permittee. Any such
suspension order shall be issued by the Health Officer in writing and served
upon the permittee by leaving a copy of the order at his retail food store
establishment or by delivery of registered or certified mail to such address.
   (G)   Reinstatement of permit. Any person whose permit has been suspended
may at any time make application to the Health Officer for the reinstatement of
his permit.
(BC Ord. 7-1986, passed 8-19-86)
§ 110.27 INSPECTIONS OF TEMPORARY RETAIL FOOD STORES.
   (A)   The Health Officer shall inspect each temporary retail food store for
which a permit is required under the provisions of this subchapter as often as
deemed necessary by said Health Officer.
   (B)   If during the inspection of any temporary retail food store, the
Health Officer discovers any violation of §
110.23, he shall order the correction of such violation. The manager must
immediately correct such violation or relinquish his permit and cease operation
of the establishment.
(BC Ord. 7-1986, passed 8-19-86)
RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT FEES
§ 110.40 TITLE.
   The title of this subchapter shall be Retail Food Establishment Permit Fee
Ordinance.
(BC Ord. 1-2003, passed 7-22-02)
§ 110.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNUAL TEMPORARY MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE PERMIT. A permit for a mobile food
vehicle used to store, prepare, display, or serve food or beverage which are
generally self-contained, movable, wheeled, towed, motorized, or non-motorized.
   FULL YEAR PERMIT. Serving all days in a calendar year, beginning with
establishment opening date and permit expiring one year from that date.
   LATE FEE. A lapse in permit renewal of 45 days after permit expiration date
stated on last valid permit issued.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. An operation that: stores, prepares, packages,
serves, vends, or otherwise provides food for human consumption, including, but
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   A restaurant, satellite or catered feeding location;
      (2)   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly to any
consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people;
      (3)   A market;
      (4)   A grocery store;
      (5)   A convenience store;
      (6)   A vending location;
      (7)   A conveyance used to transport people;
      (8)   An institution or a food bank that relinquishes possession of food
to a consumer directly or indirectly through a delivery service, such as home
delivery of grocery orders or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service
provided by common carriers.
   TEMPORARY FOOD BOOTH ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT. Serving one day to eight days
beginning with an opening date and expiring from that date.
(BC Ord. 1-2003, passed 7-22-02; Am. CC Ord. 2016-007, passed 2-23-16; Am. BC
Ord. 2023-008, passed 10-3-23)
§ 110.42 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees. Pursuant to the authority granted in I.C. 16-20-1-27, the
Board of the Health Department, with the approval of Council, establishes and
collects the following permit fees for retail food establishments, including
mobile food vendors, each of which shall be paid by the applicant to the Health
Fund:
      (1)   Annual food establishment permit < 50 employees   $100
      (2)   Annual food establishment permit > 50 employees   $200
      (3)   One day temporary food permit   $15
      (4)   Two to four day temporary food permit   $25   
      (5)   Five to eight day temporary food permit   $50
      (8)   Temporary food booth for three events within the county   $60
      (9)   Vending machine with potentially hazardous food only within the
county    an annual fee of $5
      (10)   Annual temporary mobile food vehicle permit   $100
      (11)   Late fee at the time a renewal permit is issued, should the prior
holding permit have an expiration date past 45 days   $50
   (B)   Exempt status.  Permits are issued without charge and fees shall not
be required of non-profit charitable, religious or educational organizations
that are exempt from the Indiana gross income tax and provide supporting
documentation.
(BC Ord. 1-2003, passed 7-22-02; Am. CC Ord. 2016-007, passed 2-23-16; Am. BC
Ord. 2023-008, passed 10-3-23)
RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT AND/OR BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT
§ 110.60 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to safeguard public health and
assure that food provided to consumers is safe, unadulterated, and honestly
presented. It establishes definitions; sets standards for management and
personnel; food operations, and equipment and facilities; and provides for
retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment plan reviews,
permits, inspections, and employee restrictions.
   (B)   This subchapter defines bed and breakfast establishment, conflict of
interest, Dearborn County Health Department, Dearborn County Official, hazard,
hazard analysis critical control point, Health Officer, Hearing Officer,
imminent health hazard, inspection report, operator, order, permit, person,
retail food establishment; and temporary food establishment; requires
construction and/or alteration plans; requires a permit and payment of permit
fees for the operation of bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment; prohibits sale of adulterated, unwholesome, or misbranded food;
regulates inspection of such establishments; provides for compliance and the
enforcement of this subchapter; provides penalties for violations of the
subchapter; and incorporates by reference Indiana Code (I.C. 16-42-1, I.C. 16-
42-2, I.C. 1642-5, Indiana State Department of Health Rule(s) 410 Indiana
Administrative Code (IAC) 715.5, 410 IAC 7-20, 410 1AC 7-21-47, 410 1AC 7-22
and 410 1AC 7-23).
   (C)   The Dearborn County Health Department is hereby authorized to issue
retail food establishment and/or, bed and breakfast establishment, temporary
food establishment permits, collect permit fees and penalties, perform
inspections, hold hearings, order or otherwise compel correction of violations
of this subchapter, and is otherwise authorized to perform all actions
necessary for the administration and enforcement of this subchapter. Permits
are not required for temporary food establishments.
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 2-17-04)
§ 110.61 DEFINITIONS.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT.  (As defined in 410 IAC 5-15.5) An operator
occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   CERTIFIED FOOD HANDLER. A food handler who holds a certificate recognized by
the Conference for Food Protection or an equivalent nationally recognized
certification program as determined by the department.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. (Derived from 68 IAC 9-1-1(b)(2)) A situation in which
the private financial interest of Dearborn County Official, Dearborn County
Official's spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or unemancipated
child, may influence the Dearborn County Official's judgment in the performance
of a public duty. Dearborn County Officials shall follow the Dearborn County
code of ethics.
   DEARBORN COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local health department in Dearborn
County or authorized representative having jurisdiction over a retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment.
   DEARBORN COUNTY OFFICIAL. Any Official of Dearborn County County, Indiana.
   FOOD HANDLER. (As defined in Title 410 IAC 7-22) An individual who is an
owner, an operator, a manager, or an employee of a food establishment; and is
responsible for or oversees the storage, preparation, display, or serving of
food to the public.
   HAZARD. A biological (bacteria and their toxins/parasites/viruses), chemical
(natural plant and animal toxins/allergens (allergen-causing protein)/nonfood-
grade lubricants/cleaning compounds/food additives/insecticides), or physical
objects (bandages/jewelry/stones/glass/bone and metal fragments/packaging
materials that may cause an unacceptable consumer health risk.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. (As defined in 410 IAC
7-20) A written document that delineates the formal procedures for following
the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point principles developed by the National
Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer having jurisdiction in Dearborn County
County/City or his or her duly authorized representative.
   HEARING OFFICER. The Dearborn County Board of Health acting in the capacity
of a Hearing Officer in proceedings. The Hearing Officer is not the Health
Officer or any other employee of the Dearborn County Health Department.
Examples of Hearing Officer could be the Dearborn County Health Board, a
subcommittee of Dearborn County Health Board, a subcommittee of health
professionals from the community or other non-bias third party appointed by the
Health Board.
   HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE POPULATION. (As defined in 4101AC 7-20) A group of
persons who are more likely than other populations to experience foodborne
disease because they are:
      (1)   Immunocompromised or adults who are 65 years of age or older and in
a hospital; or
      (2)   Preschool age children in a facility that provides custodial care,
such as a childcare center.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. Any circumstance or situation, which in the opinion
of the Health Officer presents a serious health risk to the public.
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the Dearborn County Health
Department that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to
the operator.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. (Derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9) A Dearborn County Health Department
action of particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties,
privileges, immunities, or other legal interests of one or more specific
persons. The term includes a permit.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the Dearborn County Health Department that
authorizes a person to operate a retail food establishment and/or bed and
breakfast establishment.
   PERSON. An association; a corporation; an individual; partnership; or other
legal entity, government, or governmental subdivision or agency.
   POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD. (As defined from 410 IAC 7-20)
      (1)   A food that is natural or synthetic and requires temperature
control because it is in a form capable of supporting the following:
         (a)   The rapid and progressive growth of infectious or toxigenic
micro-organisms;
         (b)   The growth and toxin production of clostridium botulinum; or
         (c)   In raw shell eggs, the growth of salmonella enteritidis.
      (2)   The term includes:
         (a)   A food of animal orgin that is raw or heat-treated;
         (b)   A food of plant origin that is heat-treated or consists of raw
seed sprouts;
         (c)   Cut melons; and
         (d)   Garlic-in-oil mixtures that are not modified in a way that
results in mixtures that do not support growth as specified under subsection
(1).
      (3)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   An air-cooled hard-boiled egg with shell intact.
         (b)   A food with a aw value of eighty-five hundredths (0.85) or less.
         (c)   A food with pH level of four and six-tenths (4.6) or below when
measured at 75 degrees Fahrenheit.
         (d)   A food, in an unopened hermetically sealed container, which is
commercially processed to achieve and maintain commercial sterility under
conditions of nonrefrigerated storage distribution.
         (e)   A food for which laboratory evidence demonstrates that the rapid
and progressive growth of infectious or toxigenic micro-organisms or the growth
of Salmonella enteritidis in eggs or clostridium botulinum cannot occur, such
as a food that:
            1.   Has a aw and a pH that are above the levels specified under
subsections (b) and (c); and
            2.   May contain a preservative, other barrier to the growth of
microorganisms, or a combination of barriers that inhibit the growth of
microorganisms.
         (f)   A food that may contain an infectious of toxigenic micro-
organism or chemical or physical contaminant at a level sufficient to cause
illness, but that does not support the growth of microorganisms as specified
under subsection (1).
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. (As derived from 410 IAC 7-20)
      (1)   An operation that: stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or
otherwise provides food for human consumption, such as:
         (a)   A restaurant;
         (b)   Satellite or catered feeding location;
         (c)   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly to
a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people;
         (d)   A market;
         (e)   A grocery store;
         (f)   A convenience store;
         (g)   A vending location;
         (h)   A conveyance used to transport people;
         (i)   An institution; or
         (j)   A food bank; and
         (k)   That relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or
indirectly through a
delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders or restaurant takeout
orders, or delivery service that is provided by common carriers.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   An element of the operation, such as a transportation vehicle or
a central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority.
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary, or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off
the premises, and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. (As defined in 410 IAC 7-20) A RETAIL FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT that operates for a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in
conjunction with a single event or celebration.
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 2-17-04)
§ 110.62 PERMITS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment, in Dearborn County
County, without first obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer. The
valid permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment.
      (2)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410 IAC
7-15.5 and/or 410 IAC 7-20 will be entitled to obtain and keep a permit.
      (3)   A separate permit shall be required for each retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment, operated or to be
operated by any person.
      (4)   A permit issued under this subchapter is not transferable.
      (5)   A retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment,
permitted by Dearborn County Health Department shall be considered registered
as required in I.C. 16-42-1-6.
   (B)   Permit period. A permit for a retail food establishment and/or bed and
breakfast establishment shall be issued for a term of one year beginning from
the date of issuance and shall be applied for by the person and/or operator
annually.
   (C)   Permit content. Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain
      (1)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit
is granted;
      (2)   The name of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the Dearborn County
Health Officer.
   (D)   Application. A person desiring to operate a retail food establishment
and/or bed and breakfast establishment, shall submit to the Dearborn County
Health Department a written application for a permit on a form provided by the
Dearborn County Health Department.
   (E)   Content of the application. The application shall include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number, and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address, and location of the retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast
establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the retail food establishment bed
and/or breakfast establishment, is owned by an association, corporation,
individual, partnership, or other legal entity;
      (3)   A statement specifying whether the retail food establishment and/or
bed and breakfast establishment:
         (a) If not permanent, is mobile and;
         (b)   The operation includes one or more of the following:
            1.   Prepares, offers for sale, or serves potentially hazardous
food:
               a.   Only to order upon a consumer's request;
               b.   In advance in quantities based on projected consumer demand
and discards food that is not sold or served at an approved frequency; or
               c.   Using time, rather than temperature, as the public health
control as specified under 410 IAC 7-20.
               d.   Prepares acidified foods as defined in 410 IAC 7-21-3.
            2.   Prepares potentially hazardous food in advance using a food
preparation method that involves two or more steps, which may include combining
potentially hazardous ingredients; cooking; cooling; reheating; hot or cold
holding; freezing; or thawing;
            3.   Prepares food as specified under subsection (3)(b)2. of this
section for delivery to and consumption at a location off the premises of the
retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment where it is
prepared;
            4.   Prepares food as specified under subsection (3)(b)2. of this
section for service to a highly susceptible population, as defined in 410 IAC
7-20;
            5.   Prepares only food that is not potentially hazardous; or
            6.   Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prepackaged food
that is not potentially hazardous.
      (4)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast
establishment;
      (5)   The name, title, address, and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person specified under subsection
(4) of this section such as the zone, district, or regional supervisor;
      (6)   The names, titles, and addresses of:
         (a)   The persons comprising the legal ownership as specified under
subsection (2) of this section including the owners and operators, and
         (b)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership;
      (7)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the applicant will:
            1.   Comply with this subchapter, and
            2.   Allow the Dearborn County Health Department access to the
retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment, and records
as specified in 410 IAC 7-15.5 and 410 IAC 7-20.
      (8)   Other information required by the Dearborn County Health
Department.
   (F)   Qualification. To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the retail food establishment, and/
or bed and breakfast establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of the Food Handler Rule, 410-IAC 7-
22; by obtaining a valid food handler certificate.
      (3)   Comply with the requirements of this subchapter;
      (4)   Agree to allow access to the retail food establishment and/or bed
and breakfast establishment, and provide required information; and
      (5)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
   (G)   Plans requirements.
      (1)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed
retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment shall submit
to the Dearborn County Health Department properly prepared plans and
specifications for review and approval before:
         (a)   The construction of a retail food establishment and/or bed and
breakfast establishment;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment; or
         (c)   The remodeling of a retail food establishment and/or bed and
breakfast establishment or a change of menu type of a retail food establishment
and/or bed and breakfast establishment.
      (2)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or retail food establishment shall include, the type of operation, type of
food preparation (as specified in Appendix B of the published version of 410
IAC 7-20), and the menu.
      (3)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and
approved by Dearborn County Health Department before a permit can be issued.
      (4)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment is built or remodeled in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and that the
establishment is in compliance with this subchapter, 410 IAC 720 and/or 410 IAC
7-15.5.
   (H)   Chance of ownership. The Dearborn County Health Department may issue a
permit to a new owner of an existing retail food establishment and/or, bed and
breakfast establishment after a properly completed application is submitted,
reviewed, approved, and a pre-open inspection, shows that the establishment is
in compliance with this subchapter and the fees are paid.
   (I)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the Dearborn County Health Department, the operator in order to retain the
permit shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this subchapter and all laws and
rules adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted
by the Indiana State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the Dearborn
County Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the Dearborn County Health Department
access to the retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment
at all reasonable times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the Dearborn County Health Department
including time frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports,
notices, orders, warnings, and other directives issued by the Dearborn County
Health Department in regard to the operator's retail food establishment and/or
bed and breakfast establishment or in response to community emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the Dearborn County Health
Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive, and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this subchapter or a
directive of the Dearborn County Health Department;
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the retail food establishment and/
or bed and breakfast establishment that is conspicuous to consumers.
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 2-17-04)
§ 110.63 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment in Dearborn County County, who has not
paid the permit fee required to be paid for the operation of such
establishment.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid for a term of one year from the date of issuance
and shall be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
   (C)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this subchapter to a
retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment, as shall be
set by the Dearborn County Board of Health, as provided by the Statutes of the
State of Indiana, I.C. 16-20-1-27.
   (D)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the
Dearborn County Health Department.
   (E)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment, operated or to be
operated by any person.
   (F)   Exemption from permit pees: An organization that is exempt from the
Indiana gross income tax under I.C. 6-2.1-3-20 through 6-2.1-3-22 and offers
food for sale to the final consumer at an event held for the benefit of the
organization is exempt from the payment of fees. This exemption only applies to
organization(s) that meet the criteria addressed in I.C. 16-42-5-4. The Health
Officer shall be provided, upon request, proof of an organization's tax
exemption.
   (G)   Late fees: A late fee shall be assessed for failure to pay the permit
fee prior to the operation of the retail food establishment and/or bed and
breakfast establishment. Also, a late fee shall be assessed for failure to
renew a permit after the expiration of the permit to operate retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment. The Dearborn County
Health Board shall assess a late fee as set forth in §
110.42, Permit Fees.
   (H)   The payment of fees under this subchapter is not transferable or
refundable.
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 2-17-04)
Editor’s note:
   I.C. 6-2.1 was repealed by P.L. 192- 2002(ss), sec. 191.
§ 110.64 INSPECTION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The Dearborn County Health Department shall inspect a retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment at least once every three
months.
      (2)   The Dearborn County Health Department may inspect less frequently
if:
         (a)   The retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast
establishment is fully operating under an approved and validated Hazard
Analysis Critical Control Point HACCP plan(s);
         (b)   The retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast
establishment is assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a
written risk-based inspection/menu type (No cook step/same day service/complex
food preparation) schedule that is being uniformly applied throughout the
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The Dearborn County Health Department
shall periodically inspect throughout its period of operation a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells, or serves unpackaged potentially hazardous
food and may inspect temporary food establishment that prepares, sells or
serves unpackaged, nonpotentially hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as handwashing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, warewashing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal, and insect and rodent control; or
      (2)   Has untrained food employees.
   (C)   Performance and risk based inspections. Within the parameters
specified in the above inspection subsection(s) of this subchapter, the
Dearborn County Health Department shall prioritize, and conduct more frequent
inspections based upon its assessment of a retail food establishment and/or bed
and breakfast establishment's history of compliance with this subchapter and
the potential as a vector of foodborne illness by evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance, for violations of 410 IAC 7-15.5, 410 IAC 7-20
and/or 410 IAC 7-22 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or non-
critical;
      (2)   Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of 410 IAC 7-
15.5 and/or 410 IAC 20 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are noncritical;
      (3)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be
valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored, or served;
      (5)   The type of operation including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation, and service;
      (6)   The number of people served; and
      (7)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
   (D)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice. After the
Dearborn County Health Department presents official credentials and provides
notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection, the operator
shall allow the Dearborn County Health Department to determine if the bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, is in compliance with this
subchapter by allowing access to the establishment, allowing inspection, and
providing information and records specified in this subchapter. The Dearborn
County Health Department is entitled the information and records according to
I.C. 16-42-1-13 and I.C. 16-42-5-23, during the retail food establishment and/
or bed and breakfast establishment's hours of operation and other reasonable
times. Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate. If access is denied, an order issued by the
appropriate authority allowing access may be obtained according to law.
(I.C. 16-20-1-26)
   (E)   Inspection reports.
      (1)   At the conclusion of the inspection, the Dearborn County Health
Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report and the
notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person-in-charge, as
required under I.C. 16-20-8-5.
      (2)   Timely correction of critical violations: Except as specified in
the subsection (3) below, an operator shall at the time of inspection correct a
critical violation of 4101AC 7-15.5, 410 IAC 7-20 and/or 410 IAC 7-22 and
implement corrective actions for a HACCP plan provision that is not in
compliance with its critical limit.
      (3)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the Dearborn County Health
Department may agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection,
for the operator to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (4)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the Dearborn County Health Department shall verify correction
of the violation, document the information on an Inspection Report, and enter
the report in the Dearborn County Health Department's records.
   (F)   Refusal to sign acknowledgement.
      (1)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
operator's obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified.
      (2)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the Dearborn County Health Department
historical record for the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment.
      (3)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of
the Dearborn County Health Department inspection by acknowledgement of receipt.
   (G)   Public information. Except as specified in section 176 (Trade Secrets)
of 410 IAC 7-20, the Dearborn County Health Department shall treat the
inspection report as a public document and shall make it available for
disclosure to a person who requests it as provided in law.
(I.C. 16-20-8-6) (Ord. 2-2004, passed 2-17-04)
§ 110.65 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment, is
denied, the Dearborn County Health Department shall provide the applicant with
a notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant's right of appeal and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
   (B)   Permit suspension. The Dearborn County Health Department may suspend a
permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment
if it determines through inspection, or examination of employee, food, records,
or other means as specified in this subchapter, that an imminent health hazard
exists.
   (C)   Ceasing operation and contacting. An operator of a retail food
establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment, shall immediately
discontinue operations and notify the Dearborn County Health Department, Food
Division, if an imminent health hazard may exist because of an emergency such
as a fire, flood, extended interruption of electrical or water service, sewage
backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic materials, onset of an apparent foodborne
illness outbreak, gross insanitary occurrence or condition, or other
circumstance that may endanger public health.
   (D)   Resuming operation. If a retail food establishment and/or bed and
breakfast establishment, has discontinued operations for the reasons stated
above or otherwise according to law, the operator must obtain approval from the
Dearborn County Health Department, Food Division before resuming operations.
   (E)   Outstanding fees. Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a
permit may not be issued.
   (F)   Enforcement options. (I.C. 16-42-5-28(g)) The following are options
available to Dearborn County Health Department for consideration:
      (1)   Establish a process for the issuing of tickets based on violation
of the retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment
requirements , (I.C. 16-42-5-28(g) and I.C. 33-6-3-1 for guidance); or
      (2)   Conduct administrative proceeding for suspension and/or revocation
of the retail food establishment and/or bed and breakfast establishment,
temporary food establishment permit in front of a Hearing Officer; or
      (3)   The Dearborn County Health Officer may issue an "Order To Abate"
based on a condition that may transmit, generate, or promote disease. Failure
on the part of the operator to comply with the order could result in the
enforcement of the order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an
action by the county attorney or county prosecuting attorney (I.C. 16-20-1-25);
or
      (4)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation,
request the county attorney or county prosecuting attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for the enforcement of the ordinance violation (I.C.
34-28-5-1); or
      (5)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense,
request the county attorney or county prosecuting attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for enforcement (I.C. 16-20-1-25(c)).
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 2-17-04)
§ 110.66 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under the enforcement options
(1)—(3) of §
110.65(F) shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a Hearing
Officer by filing a written request therefore with the Health Officer
(Secretary of the Dearborn Board of Health I.C. 16-20-1-10). The written
request must be mailed or hand delivered to Health Officer, 215B West High
Street, Lawrenceburg, Indiana 47025 and must be received within 15 days after
such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer receipt of such request, the Hearing Officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five days written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the rules of court of the jurisdiction. A shorter period of time
may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon.
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person's mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the Health Officer.
   (D)   At such hearing, the Hearing Officer establishes the rules of
procedure and shares them with the parties prior to the start of the
proceedings.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final order or determination of this matter in writing.
   (F)   The order finalizes the administrative appeals procedure. Further
action would need to be filed in the court of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 2-17-04)
§ 110.67 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No Dearborn County Official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner
that is or could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2-2004, passed 2-17-04)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.06 shall be punished for the first offense by a fine of not more than $500;
for the second offense by a fine of not more than $1,000; and for a third and
each subsequent offense by a fine of not more than $1,000. Each day of
operation of a food-service establishment, mobile food-service establishment or
temporary food-service establishment in violation of §
110.02 or after the expiration of the time limit for abating unsanitary
conditions and completing improvements to abate such conditions as ordered by
the Health Officer shall constitute a distinct and separate offense.
(BC Ord. 11-1984, passed 12-18-84)
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
110.20 through
110.27 shall be punished for the first offense by a fine of not more than $500,
for the second offense, by a fine of not more than $1,000 and for the third and
each subsequent offense, by a fine of not more than $1,500. Each day after the
expiration of the time limit for abating insanitary conditions and completing
improvements to abate such conditions as ordered by the Health Officer shall
constitute a distinct and separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to or in the alternative of criminal proceedings upon
the commission of a violation of any provision of §§
110.20 through
110.27, a civil action for mandatory injunction, restraint, or other proper
relief may be brought in the name of the County Health Department to bring
about compliance.
      (3)   Any person found in violation of §§
110.20 through
110.27 by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be liable to the County Board
of Health, for any litigation expenses including, but not limited to,
engineering expenses, transportation expenses, witness fees and attorney fees.
(BC Ord. 7-1986, passed 8-19-86)
CHAPTER 111: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
Permits and Licenses
   
111.15   Permit required; application
   
111.16   Investigation on application
   
111.17   Grant or denial of permit
   
111.18   Permit fee
   
111.19   Inspection of premises
   
111.20   Expiration of permit; renewal
   
111.21   Suspension of permit
   
111.22   Revocation of permit
   
111.23   Judicial review of permit denial, suspension or revocation
   
111.24   Transfer of permit
   
111.25   Employee license
Operating Regulations and Prohibitions
   
111.35   Exhibition of sexually explicit films or videos in video booths
   
111.36   Minors
   
111.37   Advertising and lighting regulations
   
111.38   Hours of operation
   
111.39   Nudity
   
111.40   Additional prohibitions for operation without valid permit
   
111.41   Exemptions
   
111.98   Remedies
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the citizens of
the county, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent
deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses within the county. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent or effect of this chapter to in any
way condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene or harmful to minors'
material.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or
more still or motion picture projectors, slide projectors, or similar machines,
or other image producing machines, for viewing by five or fewer persons each,
are regularly used to show films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or
other photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
descriptions of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial
establishment which has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-
in-trade or derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues or
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to the sale, rental for any form of consideration, of any one or
more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
      (3)   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale rental or viewing of materials depicting or
describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas,” and
still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes is
offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified
materials which depict or describe “specified anatomical areas” or “specified
sexual activities.”
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant “bottle club,” or similar
commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which
regularly features: persons who appear nude, semi-nude or in a state of nudity;
live performances which are characterized by the exposure of “specified
anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities,” or films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT MOTEL. A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment which:
offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which provides
patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas” and which advertises the availability of this
sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign visible from the public
right-of-way, or by means of any off-premises advertising including but not
limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television,
or offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than ten hours; or
allows a tenant or occupant to subrent the sleeping room for a time period of
less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” are regularly shown for any form of
consideration.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of nudity or live performances which are characterized by
exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities.”
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary, wage or
other compensation by the operator of said business.
   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to act
as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purpose for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Means and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in this
chapter;
      (3)   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in
this chapter to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any place where, for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment manipulation of the human body which occurs
as a part of; or in connection with “specified sexual activities,” or where any
person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related thereto,
exposes his or her “specified anatomical areas.” The definition of sexually
oriented business shall not include the practice of massage in any licensed
hospital, nor by a licensed hospital, nor by a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor or osteopath, nor by any nurse or technician working under the
supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by
trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional athlete or athletic
team or school athletic program.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, who regularly appears in a
state of nudity or displays “specified anatomical areas” is provided for money
or any form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of human bare buttock, anus, male
genitals, female genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or a
state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human buttocks, anus,
male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of the female breast.
   OPERATOR. Means and includes the owner, permit holder, custodian, manager,
operator or person in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
   PERMITTED OR LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that require a license and/or
permit and that is classified as a sexually oriented business.
   PERMITTEE AND/OR LICENSEE. A person in whose name a permit and/or license to
operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the individual
listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or license.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned, leased or held by the United States,
the state, the county, the city, any special district, school district, or any
other agency or political subdivision of the state or the United States, which
building is used for governmental purposes.
   PUBLIC PARK OR RECREATION AREA. Public land which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including but not limited to a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or
similar public land within the county which is under the control, operation, or
management of the county park and recreation authorities.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building
which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT OR USE. A single family, duplex, townhouse, multiple
family, or mobile park or subdivision and campground as defined in the Zoning
Code.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private educational facility including but not limited
to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities. “School” includes the school grounds, but does not include the
facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a
school.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areolae of the female breast, as well as portions
of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial establishment, that
as one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration,
a place where two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for the
purpose of “specified sexual activities” or the exposure of “specified
anatomical areas” or activities when one or more of the persons is in a state
of nudity or semi-nude. The definition of sexually oriented businesses shall
not include an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, massage parlor, sexual encounter establishment, escort
agency or nude model studio, all as defined in this section.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. As used in this division means and includes any
of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the
top of the areolae; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACT.
      (1)   An offense involving the use of force or violence upon the person
of another that amounts to a felony pursuant to the laws of the state.
      (2)   An offense involving sexual misconduct, which constitutes a felony
or misdemeanor under the laws of the state.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. As used in this division, means and includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subdivisions (1) through (4) of this division.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Increase in the
floor areas occupied by the business by more than 15%, as the floor areas exist
on the effective date of Ordinance 8-1996.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means and
includes any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means;
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise
which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the
ownership or control.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
PERMITS AND LICENSES
§ 111.15 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted to operate without a
valid sexually oriented business permit issued by the county for the particular
type of business.
   (B)   The County Administrator or his or her designee is responsible for
granting, denying, revoking, renewing, suspending, and canceling sexually
oriented business permits for proposed or existing sexually oriented
businesses. The County Administrator or his or her designee is also responsible
for ascertaining whether a proposed sexually oriented business for which a
permit is being applied for complies with all locational requirements of the
Zoning Ordinance, all applicable zoning laws and/or regulations now in effect
or as amended or enacted subsequent to the effective date of this chapter in
the County and the County Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   The County Sheriff's Department is responsible for providing
information on whether an applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
act during the time period set forth.
   (D)   The County Planning and Zoning Enforcement Office is responsible for
inspecting a proposed, permitted or non-permitted sexually oriented business in
order to ascertain whether it is in compliance with applicable statutes and
ordinances.
   (E)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
county. Any person desiring to operate a sexually oriented business shall file
with the county an original and two copies of a sworn permit application on the
standard application form supplied by the county or designee.
   (F)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, the individual shall state his or her legal name
and aliases and submit satisfactory proof that he or she is 18 years of age;
         (b)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name,
and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited,
and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         (c)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name,
the date of its incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good
standing and the names and capacity of all officers, directors and principal
stockholders, and the name of the registered corporate agent and the address of
the registered office for service of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant; he must state the sexually
oriented business's fictitious name and submit the required registration
documents.
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals listed
pursuant to this section has, within the two- or five-year period as specified
in §
111.17 immediately preceding the date of the application, been convicted of a
specified criminal act involved, the date of conviction and the place of
conviction.
      (4)   Whether the applicant or any of the other individuals pursuant to
this section and or licenses of this chapter has had a previous permit under
this chapter or other similar sexually oriented business ordinances from
another city or county denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation, and whether the applicant or any other individuals listed pursuant
to §
111.22 has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, director or principal
stockholder of a corporation that is permitted under this chapter whose permit
has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and
location of the sexually oriented business for which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
      (5)   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed pursuant to
this section holds any other permits and/or licenses under this chapter or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city or county
and, if so, the names and locations of such other permitted businesses.
      (6)   The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing.
      (7)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, street address, and telephone number(s) if
any.
      (8)   The applicant's mailing addresses and residential address.
      (9)   A recent photograph of the applicant(s).
      (10)   The applicant's driver's permit number, Social Security number,
and his or her state or federally issued tax identification number.
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (12)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by an Indiana registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any established existing uses
regulated by this chapter within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified;
the property lines of any established religious institution/synagogue, school,
or public park or recreation area within 1,000 feet of the property to be
certified; and the property lines of any residentially zoned area or
residential property within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified. For
purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if
it is in existence at the time an application is submitted.
      (13)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is
an individual, he or she must sign the application for a permit as applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a permit as applicant. If a corporation is listed
as owner of a sexually oriented business or as the entity which wishes to
operate such a business, each individual having a 10% or greater, interest in
the corporation must sign the application for a permit as applicant.
      (14)   If a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented business which
shall exhibit on the premises films, video cassettes, or other video
reproductions which depict specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, then said person shall comply with the application requirements
subsequently stated herein.
   (G)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event that said information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with said continuing duty within 30 days
from the date of such change by supplementing the application on file with the
County Administrator or his or her designee, shall be grounds for suspension of
a permit.
   (H)   In the event that the County Administrator or his or her designee
determines or learns at any time that the applicant has improperly completed
the application for a proposed sexually oriented business, he or she shall
promptly notify the applicant of such fact and allow the applicant ten days to
properly complete the application. (The time period for granting or denying a
permit shall be stayed during the period in which the applicant is allowed an
opportunity to properly complete the application.)
   (I)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
health, fire and building codes and laws.
   (J)   The applicant shall be required to pay a non-refundable application
fee of $100 at the time of filing an application under this section of this
chapter.
   (K)   Prior to obtaining any permit or license to operate any sexually
oriented business defined in this chapter, and as part of any application for a
permit under this Section, the applicant shall obtain from the county or its
designee a certification that the proposed location of such business complies
with the locational requirements of the County Zoning Ordinance.
   (L)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or county
permits and/or licenses does not exempt him/her from the requirement of
obtaining a sexually oriented business permit.
   (M)   By applying for a permit under this chapter, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this chapter and to the exercise
by the County Administrator or his designee, the Sheriff's Department and all
other county agencies charged with enforcing the laws, ordinance and codes
applicable in the county of their respective responsibilities under this
chapter.
   (N)   The applicant shall be required to provide the county with the names
of any and all employees who are required to be licensed pursuant to subsequent
provisions of this chapter. This shall be a continuing requirement even after a
permit is granted or renewed.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
§ 111.16 INVESTIGATION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the county and upon
payment of the non-refundable application fee, the county or its designee,
shall immediately stamp the application as received and shall immediately
thereafter send photocopies of the application to the Sheriff's Department and
any other county agencies responsible for enforcement of health, fire, and
building codes and laws. Each department or agency shall promptly conduct an
investigation of the applicant, application and the proposed sexually oriented
business set forth in this chapter. Said investigation shall be completed
within 20 days of receipt of the application by the county of its designee. At
the conclusion of its investigation, each department or agency shall indicate
on the photocopy of the application its approval or disapproval of the
application, date it, sign it, and, in the event it disapproves, state the
reasons therefore. The Sheriff's Department shall only be required to certify
the NCIC records request check mentioned at §
111.17. The Sheriff's Department shall not be required to approve or disapprove
applications.
   (B)   A department or agency shall disapprove an application if it finds
that the proposed sexually oriented business will be in violation of any
provision of any statute, code, ordinance, regulation or other law in effect in
the county. After its indication of approval or disapproval, each department or
agency shall immediately return the photocopy of the application to the county
or its designee.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
§ 111.17 GRANT OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The County Administrator or his or her designee, shall grant or deny
an application for a permit within 30 days from the date of its proper filing.
Upon the expiration of the thirtieth day, unless the applicant requests and is
granted a reasonable extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted to
begin operating the business for which the permit is sought, unless and until
the county or its designee, notifies the applicant of a denial of the
application and state the reason(s) for that denial.
   (B)   Grant of application for permit.
      (1)   The County Administrator or his or her designee, shall grant the
application unless one or more of the criteria set forth in division (C) below
is present.
      (2)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also indicate that the
sexually oriented business whether permitted or not may be subject to
prohibitions against public nudity and indecency pursuant to the United States
Supreme Court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theater. Inc.. 501 U.S. 560 (1991).
The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to
the sexually oriented business so that it can be read easily at any time.
   (C)   Denial of application for permit.
      (1)   The County Administrator or his or her designee, shall deny the
application for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue on his or her
payment to the county of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against him/
her or imposed upon him/her in relation to a sexually oriented business.
         (c)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a
permit by the county to operate a sexually oriented business within the
preceding 12 months, or residing with a person whose permit to operate a
sexually oriented business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months.
         (d)   An applicant has failed to provide information required by this
section or permit application for the issuance of the permit or has falsely
answered a question or request for information on the application form.
         (e)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have
not been approved as being in compliance with health, fire and building codes
by the department or agency responsible under law for investigating said
compliance.
         (f)   The application or permit fees required by this chapter have not
been paid.
         (g)   An applicant of the proposed business is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this chapter including but not
limited to the zoning locational requirements for a sexually oriented business
under the County Zoning Ordinance.
         (h)   The granting of the application would violate a statute,
ordinance, or court order.
         (i)   The applicant has a permit under this chapter which has been
suspended or revoked.
         (j)   An applicant has been convicted of a “specified criminal” act
for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a misdemeanor offense for the “specified criminal” acts which
are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes connected with
another sexually oriented business including but not limited to distribution of
obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution, pandering, or as
violations;
            2.   Less than five years have lapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is of a felony offense; for the “specified criminal” acts which are
sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes connected with
another sexually oriented business including but not limited to distribution of
obscenity or material harmful to minors, prostitution, pandering, or tax
violations;
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement, whichever is the later date, if the
convictions are of two or more misdemeanor offenses for “specified criminal”
acts which are sexual crimes against children, sexual abuse, rape or crimes
connected with another sexually oriented business including but not limited to
distribution of obscenity or materials harmful to minors, prostitution,
pandering or tax violations; offenses occurring within any 24-month period;
            4.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant;
            5.   An applicant who has been convicted of the above described
“specified criminal acts” may qualify for a sexually oriented business permit
only when the time period required above has elapsed.
         (k)   An applicant knowingly has in his or her employ, an employee who
does not have a valid license as required in §
111.25 of this chapter.
      (2)   If the County Administrator or his or her designee, denies the
application, he or she shall notify the applicant of the denial and state the
reasons(s) for the denial.
      (3)   If a person applies for a permit for a particular location within a
period of 12 months from the date of denial of a previous application for a
permit at the location, and there has not been an intervening change in the
circumstances which could reasonably be expected to lead to a different
decision regarding the former reasons for denial, the application shall be
denied.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
§ 111.18 PERMIT FEE.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit is $1,500.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
§ 111.19 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   An applicant or permittee shall permit representatives of the County
Administrator's Office, Planning and Zoning Enforcement Office, County Health
Department, Sheriffs Department and Fire Department to inspect the premises of
a sexually oriented business for the purpose of insuring compliance with the
law, at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person who operates a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this chapter, or his or her agent or employee to
refuse to permit such lawful inspection of the premises at any time that it is
occupied or open for business.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
111.24 (for renewals, filing of original survey shall be sufficient) of this
chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
   (B)   When the County Administrator or his or her designee, denies renewal
of the permit, the applicant shall not be issued a permit under this chapter
for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to denial, the county or
its designee, finds that the basis for denial of the renewal of the permit has
been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a permit if at least 90 days
have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
§ 111.21 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The County Administrator or his or her designee, shall suspend a
permit for a period not to exceed 30 days if he or she determines that a
permittee, or an employee of a permittee, has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
or
      (2)   Been under the influence of alcoholic beverages while working in
the sexually oriented business premises; or
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter; or
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises; or
      (5)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance or regulation, whether
federal, state, or local, said determination being based on investigation by
the division, department or agency charged with enforcing said rules or laws.
In the event of such statute, code, ordinance or regulation violation, the
county or its designee, shall promptly notify the permittee of the violation
and shall allow the permittee a seven-day period in which to correct the
violation. If the permittee fails to correct the violation before the
expiration of the seven-day period, the county or its designee, shall forthwith
suspend the permit and shall notify the permittee of the suspension.
      (6)   Engaged in permit transfer contrary to this chapter. In the event
that the county or its designee, suspends a permit on the ground that a
permittee engaged in a permit transfer contrary to this chapter, the County
Administrator or his or her designee shall forthwith notify the permittee of
the suspension. The suspension shall remain in effect until the applicable
section of this chapter has been satisfied.
      (7)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of this
chapter.
      (8)   Knowingly employed a person who does not have a valid license as
required in this chapter.
   (B)   The suspension shall remain in effect until the violation of the
statute, code, ordinance or regulation in question has been corrected.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
§ 111.22 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The County Administrator or his or her designee shall revoke a permit
if a cause of suspension in §
111.21 of this chapter occurs and the permit has been suspended within the
preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The County Administrator or his or her designee, shall revoke a permit
upon determining that:
      (1)   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant's
opportunity for obtaining a permit; or
      (2)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances in or on the premises; or
      (3)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on
the premises; or
      (4)   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee's permit was suspended; or
      (5)   A permittee has been convicted of a “specified criminal act” for
which the time period required in this Ordinance has not elapsed; or
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12- month period, a person or
persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the permitted premises,
constituting a specified criminal act for which a conviction has been obtained,
and the person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented business at
the time the offenses were committed. The fact that a conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the permit; or
      (7)   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business; or
      (8)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises.
      (9)   A permittee has been operating more than one sexually oriented
business under a single roof except as otherwise permitted by county ordinance.
   (C)   When the County Administrator or his or her designee, revokes a
permit, the revocation shall continue for one year and the permittee shall not
be issued a sexually oriented business permit for one year from the date
revocation became effective. If subsequent to revocation, the County
Administrator or his or her designee finds that the basis for revocation under
this chapter has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a permit if at
least 90 days have elapsed since the date revocation became effective.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
§ 111.23 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF PERMIT DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
prompt review of such administrative action through the Board of County
Commissioners or special County Review Board if one is established by the
county. If the denial, suspension or revocation is affirmed upon review, the
administrative action shall be promptly reviewed by the court.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
§ 111.24 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   (B)   A permittee shall not transfer his or her permit to another person
unless and until such other person satisfies the following requirements:
      (1)   Obtains an amendment to the permit from the County Administrator or
his or her designee, which provides that he or she is now the permittee, which
amendment may be obtained only if he or she has completed and properly filed an
application with the County Administrator or his or her designee, setting forth
the information called for under this chapter in the application; and
      (2)   Pays a transfer fee of 20% of the annual permit fee set by this
chapter.
   (C)   No permit may be transferred when the County Administrator or his or
her designee has notified the permittee that suspension or revocation
proceedings have been or will be brought against the permittee.
   (D)   A permittee shall not transfer his permit to another location.
   (E)   Any attempt to transfer a permit either directly or indirectly in
violation of this section is hereby declared void and the permit shall be
deemed revoked.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
§ 111.25 EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   Each individual to be employed in a sexually oriented business, as
defined in this chapter, who engages in the services rendered by a nude model
studio, escort or escort agency, sexual encounter establishment, massage
parlor, or a live performer or entertainer shall be required to obtain a
sexually oriented business employee license. Each applicant shall pay a permit
fee of $50. Said fee is to cover reasonable administrative costs of the
licensing application process.
   (B)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, the applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
County Administrator or his or her designee the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name or any other names (including “stage” names)
or aliases used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, date, and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present residence address and telephone number;
      (5)   Present business address and telephone number;
      (6)   State driver's license or identification number;
      (7)   Social Security number; and
      (8)   Acceptable written proof that the individual is at least 18 years
of age.
      (9)   Attached to the application form as provided above, a color
photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's face, and the
applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the Sheriff's Department. Any
fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant.
      (10)   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application including whether such applicant previously operating or
seeking to operate, in this or any other county, city, state, or country has
ever had a license, permit, or authorization to do business denied, revoked, or
suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation, or
suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction,
and describe in full the reasons for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A
copy of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the
application.
      (11)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
act as defined in this chapter. This information shall include the date, place,
nature of each conviction or plea of nolo contendere and identifying the
convicting jurisdiction.
      (12)   The County Administrator or his or her designee shall refer the
sexually oriented business employee license application to the Sheriff's
Department for an investigation to be made of such information as is contained
on the application. The application process shall be completed within ten days
from the date the completed application is filed. After the investigation, the
County Administrator or his or her designee shall issue a license unless the
report from the Sheriff's Department finds that one or more of the following
findings is true:
         (a)   That the applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a license, or in
any report or record required to be filed with the Sheriff's Department or
other department of the county;
         (b)   That the applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (c)   That the applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
act as defined in this chapter;
      (d)   That the sexually oriented business employee license is to be used
for employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by particular provisions of this chapter.
         (e)   That the applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee
license revoked by the county within two years of the date of the current
application;
   (C)   Renewal of license:
      (1)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to
annual renewal by the County Administrator or his or her designee upon the
written application of the applicant and a finding by the County Administrator
or his or her designee and the Sheriff's Department that the applicant has not
been convicted of any “specified criminal act” as defined in this chapter or
committed any act during the existence of the previous license period which
would be grounds to deny the initial permit application.
      (2)   The renewal of the license shall be subject to payment of a fee as
set by a resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96) Penalty, see §
111.99
OPERATING REGULATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS
§ 111.35 EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR VIDEOS IN VIDEO BOOTHS.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business,
other than a sexually oriented motel/hotel and regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued to said business under this chapter, which exhibits on
the premises in a viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a
film, video cassette or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business permit, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations, the location
of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises
in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not exceed 32
square feet of floor area with no dimension greater than eight feet. The
diagram shall also designate the place at which this permit will be
conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the
nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required;
however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to some designated
street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale with marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimension of all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The
County Administrator of his or her designee, may waive the foregoing diagram
for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
   (B)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (C)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station
may be made without the prior approval of the city or its designee.
   (D)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to insure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated at each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (E)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises have two or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which patron is permitted access for any
purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in this
subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to insure that the
view area specified in division (E) remains unobstructed by any doors, walls,
merchandise, display racks other materials or person at all times and to insure
that no patron is permitted access to any area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to division (A) of this section.
   (G)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any one
time. No holes, commonly known as “glory holes,” shall be allowed in the walls
or partitions which separate each viewing room from an adjoining viewing room
or restroom.
   (H)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting of sufficient
intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted access and
an illumination of not less than two foot candle as measured at the floor
level.
   (I)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall be the
duty of any agents and employees present on the premises to insure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present on the premises.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 MINORS.
   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented
business, under this chapter, and knowingly or with reasonable cause to know,
permit, suffer, or allow:
   (A)   Admittance of a person under 18 years of age to the business premises
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (B)   A person under 18 years of age to remain at the business premises
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (C)   A person under 18 years of age to purchase goods or services at the
business premises without the specific consent of a parent or guardian; or
   (D)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business premises
as an employee.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 ADVERTISING AND LIGHTING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, and advertise the presentation of any activity
prohibited by any applicable state statute or local ordinance.
   (B)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented
business, regardless or whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, and display or otherwise exhibit the materials
and/or performances at such sexually oriented business in any advertising which
is visible outside the premises. This prohibition shall not extend to
advertising of the existence or location of such sexually oriented business.
   (C)   The permittee shall not allow any portion of the interior premises to
be visible from outside the premises.
   (D)   All off-street parking areas and premise entries of the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one foot candle of light on the parking surface and/or walk-
ways. This required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premise.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section shall relieve the operator or
operators of a sexually oriented business from complying with the requirements
of this chapter, as it may be amended from time to time, or any subsequent
enacted county ordinance or regulations.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.38 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, and allow such business to remain open for
business, or to permit any employee to engage in a performance, solicit a
performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a service, or solicit a
service, between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. of any particular day.
   (B)   No person shall, working as an employee of a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued under this
chapter, engage in a performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a
sale, provide a service, or solicit a service between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
and 9:00 a.m. of any particular day.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.39 NUDITY.
   (A)   The United States Supreme Court decision in Barnes v. Glen Theater.
Inc., 501 U.S. 560, 111 (1991) which upheld the rights of cities to prohibit
live public exposure of a person's private parts, specifically applies to
sexually oriented businesses (regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued to said businesses under this chapter), including said businesses where
no alcoholic beverages are sold, served, or consumed on the premises.
   (B)   Public nudity is prohibited within the county, including any sexually
oriented businesses. Any sexually oriented business which is found in violation
of this section shall have its permit suspended pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.40 ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS FOR OPERATION WITHOUT VALID PERMIT.
   (A)   In addition to the penalty provisions found at other sections of this
chapter, the following additional penalty provisions shall also apply to
sexually oriented businesses.
   (B)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this chapter, and said person knows or should know that:
      (1)   The business does not have a sexually oriented business permit
under this chapter for any applicable classification;
      (2)   The business has a permit which is under suspension;
      (3)   The business has a permit which has been revoked; or
      (4)   The business has a permit which has expired.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.41 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this chapter that
a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains educational
programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior college, or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or:
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this chapter that an
employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not it is
permitted under this chapter, exposed any specified anatomical area during the
employee's bona fide use of a restroom, or during the employee's bona fide use
of a dressing room which is accessible only to employees.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
§ 111.98 REMEDIES.
   (A)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent or restrict the county from
taking such other lawful action in any court of competent jurisdiction as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation or non-compliance. Such other
lawful actions shall include, but shall not be limited to, an equitable action
for injunctive relief or an action at law for damages.
   (B)   Further, nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the
county from prosecuting any violation of this chapter by means of a Code
Enforcement Board established pursuant to the authority as provided by the laws
of this chapter.
   (C)   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section and §
111.99 shall be cumulative and independently available to the county and the
county shall be authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this
section to the full extent allowed by law.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter, unless
otherwise specified herein, shall be subject to a fine of up to $2,500. Each
violation of non-compliance shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense. Further, each day of continued violation or non-compliance shall be
considered a separate offense.
   (B)   A violation of §
111.19 shall be punishable by a fine of $1,500.
   (C)   A person who violates §
111.35 shall be subject to a fine of up to $1,500.
(BC Ord. 1996-8, passed 8-19-96)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Synthetic cannabinoids
§ 130.01 SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.
   (A)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (products) such as K2/
Spice, or similar products which contain one or more of the following chemical
compounds shall not be sold, marketed, or offered for sale within Dearborn
County, Indiana:
      (1)   (6aR, 10aR)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-1: tetrahydrobenzo[c]chomen-l-ol, also known as HU-210;
      (2)   l-Pentyl-3-(l-naphthoy)indole, also known as JWH-018;
      (3)   l-ButyI-3-(l-naphythoy)indole, also known as JWH-073; or
      (4)   Any other equivalent compound or derivative.
   (B)   Products containing synthetic cannabinoids (products) may not be
burned, incinerated or ignited in any public place or on any property owned,
leased or controlled by Dearborn County, Indiana.
   (C)   Persons or entities violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to the penalty imposed for a Class B infraction, as set forth in I.C.
34-28-5-4. Accordingly, this section shall be enforced by the provisions of
I.C. 34-28-5.
(BC Ord. 2011-3, passed 2-15-11)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
APPENDIX: SCHEDULES OF FEES AND REQUIRED INSPECTIONS
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
      
153.   ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.    UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
      
155.   ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
Article I. General Requirements
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Scope
   
150.05   Authority
   
150.06   Severability
   
150.07   Effect on adoption of prior ordinance
Article II. Building Permits
   
150.08   Building permit required
   
150.09   Application for building permit
   
150.10   Issuance of building permit
   
150.11   Certificate of occupancy
Article III. Investigations and Inspections of Construction Activities
   
150.12   General authority to make inspections and investigations
   
150.13   Inspections by Fire Department
Article IV. Enforcement and Penalties
   
150.14   Withhold issuance of permits
   
150.15   Permit revocation
   
150.16   Stop-work order
   
150.17   Civil action
   
150.18   Monetary penalty
   
150.19   Right of appeal
Article V. Minimum Construction Standards
   
150.20   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.21   Lifting devices located within a private residence
Article VI. Effective Date
   
150.22   Effective date
Article VII. Conflicts of Interest
   
150.23   Conflicts of interest
Uniform Number System
   
150.25   Establishment
   
150.26   Relation to health and welfare
   
150.27   Conformance required
   
150.28   Base lines and sequences
   
150.29   Administrative office
   
150.30   Numbers other than on public streets and roads
   
150.31   Standards for the posting of house numbers
   
150.32   Renumbering of houses and structures
   
150.33   Notification of local agencies
   
150.34   Enforcement
County Highway Specifications
   
150.45   Establishment; application
   
150.46   Right-of-way disturbances
   
150.47   Standards for new construction
   
150.48   Drainage
   
150.49   Construction
   
150.50   Attachments adopted by reference
Article VII. Building Construction Bonds
   
150.60   Building construction bonding requirements
   
150.61   Definitions
   
150.62   Minimum bond amounts required
   
150.63   Minimum bond amounts
   
150.64   Annual residential building construction bonds
   
150.65   Bonds and letters of credit
 
   
150.99   Penalty
   Appendix:   Schedules of Fees and Required Inspections
Cross-reference:
   Fees for highway and utility permit applications, see §
91.30 
   Erosion control, see
Ch. 94
   Floodplain regulations, see
Ch. 152
BUILDING CODE
ARTICLE I. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known
as "The Building Code of Dearborn County, Indiana."
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the life, public health and
general welfare of the citizens of Dearborn County, Indiana, and shall be
construed in such a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes individuals employed by the Building
Department that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4, has the following definition.
      (1)   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be, or is occupied
or otherwise used in any part by, any of the following:
            2.   Three or more tenants.
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (a) above.
         (c)   Outdoor event equipment.
         (d)   Any class of buildings or structures that the Commission
determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in division (a)
above, except buildings or structures described in divisions (3) through (6)
below.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) above includes a structure that contains three or
more condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a building or structure
that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a structure that is intended
to be or is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of:
         (a)   The structure; or
         (b)   Mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed to
the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5, has the following definition.
      (1)   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units, unless any part of the building
or structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (a) above,
such as a garage, barn, or family swimming pool, unless any part of the
outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, means any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site.
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used.
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication, or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class
2 structure at the site where it will be used.
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate, or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, means any part
of a building or other structure that is, in whole or in substantial part,
fabricated in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly
at the building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or
another building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile
structure or a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16, has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. 5402, as it existed on January 1, 2003. This definition is as
follows: MANUFACTURED HOME means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width, or
40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling, with or without a permanent foundation, when connected to the
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and
electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any
structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph, except the size
requirements, and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under this 42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq., and
except that such term shall not include any self-propelled recreational
vehicle.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17, has the following definition.
      (1)   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Any part of a fabricated unit that is designed to
be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing
purposes, and subsequently expanded for additional capacity.
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable, but designed to
be joined into one integral unit.
   PERSON. Pursuant to I.C .22-12-1-18, means an individual, corporation,
limited liability company, partnership, unincorporated association, or
governmental entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, means any bridge that is
neither:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles;
   suspended between two or more parts of a building, or between two or more
buildings.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this subchapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this subchapter and the rules promulgated by
the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this subchapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels, or
regulated lifting devices.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.05 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11.
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.06 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision (section, clause, phrase, word, or any other portion)
of this subchapter be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid for any reason, the remaining provisions shall not be affected, if and
only if such remaining provisions can, without the invalid provision or
provisions be given the effect intended in adopting this subchapter. To this
end, the provisions of this subchapter are severable.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.07 EFFECT OF ADOPTION ON PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   The expressed or implied repeal of amendment by this subchapter of any other
ordinance, or part of any other ordinance, does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this subchapter. These rights, liabilities, and other
proceedings are continued, and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under
the repealed or amended ordinance as if this subchapter had not been adopted.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
ARTICLE II. BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.08 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction is prohibited unless in conformity with a valid building permit
obtained from the Building Commissioner prior to commencement of construction.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.09 APPLICATION FOR BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a complete
application to the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the Building
Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant.2007 S-8
      (2)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale, which indicate in a precise manner the nature
and location of all work to be accomplished.
      (3)   A plot plan drawn to scale; provided, however, such plot plan shall
not be required in the instance where all such construction is to occur
entirely within an existing structure. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs and sidewalks, and proposed changes or additions to such
streets, curbs and sidewalks.
      (4)   If required by Indiana law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the Building Law Compliance Officer pursuant to I.C.
22-15-3.
      (5)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds to
be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all applicable
building laws, and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
      (6)   The fee established by the County Commissioners.
   (C)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person entitled
to obtain the permit, or by an employee or agent of that person. The Building
Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide written
authority to apply for a permit.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.10 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   The Building Commissioner shall issue a building permit to a person after
the person has submitted a complete application, including any applicable fee,
provided that the proposed construction will conform to all applicable building
laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances or laws.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.11 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure shall be issued
unless such building or structure was constructed in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such building
or structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
ARTICLE III. INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES
§ 150.12 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner, irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure subject to the provisions of
this subchapter, or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this subchapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.13 INSPECTIONS BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Department shall work cooperatively
to conduct inspections and investigations to promote compliance with fire
safety laws. (The Fire Department has independent authority to conduct
inspections and take enforcement actions under I.C. 36-8-17.)
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
ARTICLE IV. ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 150.14 WITHHOLD ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a person that is either an applicant for a building permit or
an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned for
insufficient funds, permit fees owed pursuant to The Indiana State Board of
Accounts Guidelines for County Treasurers, or inspection fees owed pursuant to
Ordinance 2005-12) to the Building Commissioner, the Building Commissioner may
withhold the issuance of subsequently requested permits until such time that
the debt is satisfied.
   (B)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure that
is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions of
an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
2009 S-10
§ 150.15 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Building Commissioner may revoke a building permit when any of the
following are applicable:
   (A)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact.
   (B)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures.
   (C)   There is failure to comply with this subchapter.
   (D)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.16 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension of
the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The stop-work order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   State with specificity the construction to which it is applicable
and the reason for its issuance.
      (3)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place.
      (4)   If practicable, be given to:
         (a)   The person doing the construction; and
         (b)   To the owner of the property or the owner's agent.
      (5)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
      (1)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including but not
limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this subchapter or any
state law pertaining to safety during construction.
      (2)   Construction is occurring in violation of this subchapter or in
such a manner that, if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a
reasonable probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the
violation.
      (3)   Construction for which a building permit is required is proceeding
without a building permit being in force.
   (D)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the operation
of penalties provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.17 CIVIL ACTION.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-4, the county may initiate a civil action in a court
of competent jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating a provision of
this subchapter.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.18 MONETARY PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter may be subject to a
fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment of a monetary penalty
shall in no way limit the operation of the penalties provided elsewhere in this
subchapter.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.19 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter shall have the
right to petition for review of any order of the Building Commissioner. Such a
person may file a petition using either, or both, of the following procedures:
   (A)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
      (1)   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter may
appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, in accordance
with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
      (2)   The Commission may modify or reverse any order issued by the county
that covers a subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C. 22-
15, a fire safety or a building rule.
      (3)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure, if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
      (4)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review all
other orders issued under this subchapter.
      (5)   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any statute in
which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the order.
   (B)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9, a person aggrieved by a decision of the
Building Department may appeal as in other civil actions.
         (a)   The appellant must, by registered mail, give the County
Executive a 15-day written notice of his or her intention to appeal.
         (b)   This notice must concisely state the appellant's grievance.
      (2)   If, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the county has established by
ordinance to hear appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person
aggrieved by an order may petition for review with this administrative body in
accordance with such ordinance.
      (3)   If no such administrative body exists, then the person may petition
a court for judicial review of the order.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
ARTICLE V. MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 150.20 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission, as set out in the following Articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code, are hereby incorporated by
reference in this subchapter and shall include any later amendments to those
rules.
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes.
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards.
         (b)   Indiana Building Code.
      (2)   Article 14 - Indiana Residential Code.
      (3)   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code.
      (4)   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code.
      (5)   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code.
      (6)   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code.
      (7)   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code.
      (8)   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code.
      (9) Article 25 - Indiana Fuel Gas Code.
   (B)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file for public inspection in the office of the clerk for the legislative
body, as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this subchapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance granted
by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been approved by
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
§ 150.21 LIFTING DEVICES LOCATED WITHIN A PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22(b)(12), lifting devices, such as elevators
and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not regulated
lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to lifting
devices located within a private residence are incorporated by reference:
      (1)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000, Safety
Code for Elevators and Escalators, published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (2)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators, published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016.
      (3)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (4)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, ASME A18.1a,
2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway
Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three
Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (5)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
   (B)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file for public inspection in the office of the clerk for the
legislative body, as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
ARTICLE VI. EFFECTIVE DATE
§ 150.22 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after the date on
which both of the following have occurred:
   (A)   The Commissioners have adopted this subchapter.
   (B)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of Indiana has
approved of this subchapter as required by I.C. 36-7-8-3 and I.C. 22-13-2-5.
(BC Ord. 6-2006, passed 7-5-06; Am. BC Ord. 17-2008, passed 8-19-08)
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 150.23  CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to satisfy the requirements of I.C. 36-
1-27-4.
   (B)   As used in this section, "conflict of interest" means a direct or
indirect financial interest in the issuance of a permit, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-
27-1.
   (C)   As used in this section, "permit" has the meaning set forth in I.C.
36-7-4-1l09(b).
   (D)   A Building Commissioner, Building Code Official, or Inspector of
Dearborn County, Indiana may not issue a permit or oversee the issuance of a
permit through a subordinate if the Building Commissioner, Building Code
Official, or Inspector has a conflict of interest.
   (E)   A Building Commissioner, Building Code Official, or inspector of
Dearborn County, Indiana shall report a conflict of interest to the Dearborn
County Attorney.
   (F)   Promptly upon notification of the conflict of interest, the Dearborn
County Attorney shall notify the Building Inspector for the City of Greendale,
Indiana of the conflict of interest and the need for the Building Inspector for
the City of Greendale, Indiana to review and approve or deny the permit
application.
   (G)   The Building Inspector for the City of Greendale, Indiana is hereby
granted the authority to review Dearborn County, Indiana permit applications
that are subject to this section in situations where a Building Commissioner,
Building Code Official, or Inspector of Dearborn County, Indiana has a conflict
of interest.
   (H)   This section shall take effect immediately upon passage by the
Dearborn County Board of Commissioners.
(BC Ord. 2019-010, passed 8-6-19; Am. BC Ord. 2022-014, passed 10-4-22)
UNIFORM NUMBER SYSTEM
§ 150.25 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A plan for the orderly and systematic numbering of houses and structures
located within the jurisdictional area of the County Plan Commission is hereby
enacted (hereinafter “Uniform Numbering System”).
(BC Ord. 6-1992, passed 11-2-92)
§ 150.26 RELATION TO HEALTH AND WELFARE.
   The numbering of houses and other structures in an orderly and systematic
manner will make locating such houses and structure more expeditious in cases
of fire emergencies, in situations involving immediate need for emergency
medical services for family members, or building occupants and in instances
where police protection may be required. An orderly and systematic house
numbering process will also enhance the delivery of goods and services, as well
as increase the efficiency of operations such as the postal service.
(BC Ord. 6-1992, passed 11-2-92)
§ 150.27 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   From the effective date of this subchapter, the numbering of all
houses and structures located on lots or parcels of land abutting public
streets or roads within the jurisdictional area of the County Plan Commission
shall be accomplished in conformity with the uniform numbering system as herein
described.
   (B)   At the time of the issuance of any permit for the construction of a
house or structure, a number shall be assigned by the County Plan Commission to
said house or structure as hereinafter provided. Such number shall be included
on the permit, and no permit authorizing the occupancy of a house or structure
shall be issued and no final inspection of a building performed for the purpose
of permitting its occupancy shall be deemed complete unless such house or
structure displays at the time of inspection the officially assigned number in
full compliance with the standards of this subchapter.
(BC Ord. 6-1992, passed 11-2-92)
§ 150.28 BASE LINES AND SEQUENCES.
   (A)   The general rule shall be 1,000 addresses per section or “block”
except in certain areas where the irregular direction of the county highways
makes variations necessary, and except in the buffer areas adjacent to
incorporated cities and towns.
   (B)   The grid system to be used is based on a Purdue Grid System North-
South, or East-West basis with the “0” point for North-South being the Ohio-
Switzerland County line. The “0” point for East-West is the Indiana-Ohio state
line.
   (C)   The uniform numbering system is to keep the current official county
road name; adding a house number to the road name.
      Example: an address on North Dearborn Road that used to be R.R.#1, Box
XYZ, Guilford, would become 8888 North Dearborn Road, Guilford.
(BC Ord. 6-1992, passed 11-2-92)
§ 150.29 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   The County Plan Commission shall act as the Administrative Office in
charge of issuing numbers to houses or structures in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter. The Administrative Office shall issue numbers to
all new houses or structures, re-number houses and structures whenever it
becomes necessary to do so in the implementation of the uniform numbering
system, and cause the numbering of all existing houses or structures which are
not numbered to be numbered in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter. Barns, sheds, and outbuildings not used for habitation or business
shall not be numbered.
   (B)   The Administrative Office may establish written guidelines to use in
implementing this subchapter and may amend such guidelines as necessary.
(BC Ord. 6-1992, passed 11-2-92)
§ 150.30 NUMBERS OTHER THAN ON PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS.
   The Administrative Office may, if it deems proper and necessary for the
implementation of the uniform numbering system, assign numbers to houses or
structures that are situated on private streets or roads within the
jurisdictional area of the County Plan Commission.
(BC Ord. 6-1992, passed 11-2-92)
§ 150.31 STANDARDS FOR THE POSTING OF HOUSE NUMBERS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of a house or structure located within the
jurisdictional area of the County Plan Commission shall post the officially
assigned numbers in a location providing easy identification from the abutting
street or road. Such official number may be attached to the mail box (as
according to postal regulations) or on a post or outside light, or on any
prominent place on the house or structure so that the number is identifiable.
Provided, however, that if a building is not visible from a road, or if a
building is more than 200 feet from a road, the number shall be displayed at
the entrance to the access road or driveway to such building by means of a
separate marker or on a mail box.
   (B)   Such number shall be a minimum of three inches in height, made of
durable, weatherproof material, and shall contrast in color from its background
for easy visibility. Reflective materials should be avoided as they cannot be
distinguished when headlights, or spot lights, are shone on them.
   (C)   When a new number is assigned or when a house or structure is
renumbered, the owner and/or the occupant of such house or structure shall
comply with this section within 30 days after receiving notice of the
assignment of a new number or renumber.
(BC Ord. 6-1992, passed 11-2-92; Am. BC Ord. 3-1993, passed 2-1-93)
§ 150.32 RENUMBERING OF HOUSES AND STRUCTURES.
   Houses and structures that were numbered prior to the effective date of this
subchapter shall be renumbered in order to comply with the uniform numbering
system and so that the numerical harmony throughout an area, or areas, is
substantially achieved. The County Plan Commission, as designated in this
subchapter, shall authorize such changes.
(BC Ord. 6-1992, passed 11-2-92)
§ 150.33 NOTIFICATION OF LOCAL AGENCIES.
   The Administrative Office shall provide a uniform system of notification of
the issuance of numbers or the renumbering of houses and structures.
Notification shall be made reasonably ahead of impending changes so as to allow
interested groups and agencies to plan and to prepare for proposed changes. The
Administrative Office shall keep accurate records and shall, in a timely
manner, make available to the County Commissioners a report of the status of
the implementation of the uniform numbering system. In the assignment of house
numbers, the Administrative Office shall use its best judgment and shall
carefully consider and evaluate all contingencies and shall, with due regard to
the sensitive nature of the job assigned to it, be considerate of the citizens
of the county.
(BC Ord. 6-1992, passed 11-2-92)
§ 150.34 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for injunction in the courts
of the county to restrain any person, firm, or corporation who shall take down,
alter, deface, destroy or conceal any number assigned to or placed upon any
building in compliance with this subchapter, or who shall place or substitute,
or permit to be placed or substituted upon any building, an erroneous or
improper number not in compliance with this subchapter, or who shall allow to
be retained upon any building an erroneous or improper number not in compliance
with the subchapter. The Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for
mandatory injunction directing a person, firm, or corporation to correct any
violation of the provisions of this subchapter or to bring about compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter. If the Board of Commissioners is
successful in any such suit, the defendant, or respondent, shall bear the cost
of the action, including reasonable attorney's fees.
(BC Ord. 6-1992, passed 11-2-92)
COUNTY HIGHWAY SPECIFICATIONS
§ 150.45 ESTABLISHMENT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   This document establishes the Dearborn County Highway specifications
and standards for new roadways and right-of-way regulations on existing county
roads. This document shall replace any and all previous specifications
concerning roadway design standards.
   (B)   These specifications shall apply to any individual or business working
within the county right-of-way or proposed right-of-way, as well as any
individual or business working under contract for the county. It is the intent
of these specifications to establish a unified set of regulations pertinent to
highway construction and maintenance within the county right-of-way or proposed
right-of-way.
   (C)   The provisions of the most recent edition of the Indiana Department of
Transportation Standard Specifications and Standard Sheets shall be adopted as
the minimum requirement for construction and materials.
(BC Ord. 9-1997, passed 6-2-97)
§ 150.46 RIGHT-OF-WAY DISTURBANCES.
   (A)   Permits. Two types of permits shall be established for control of work
within the county right-of-way. Road and driveway permits shall cover any work
concerning the installation of a private drive or connections of a new roadway
to an existing roadway whether intended for public or private use. Utility
installation/right-of-way permits shall cover all other construction within the
right-of-way.
      (1)   Road and driveway permit. Anyone wishing to connect a private
driveway or new roadway on to a public road within the county shall be required
to obtain a driveway permit. It is the intent of this regulation to adopt the
same driveway permit standards as established in the Indiana Department of
Transportation Driveway Permit Handbook. Plans shall be submitted on all
commercial and subdivision roadways. A permit bond is established for all
commercial drives and new roadways into subdivisions with more than 12 lots.
Minimum bond amount shall be $5000. Bonds shall remain in effect until released
upon inspection by the County Engineer. See §
150.48 on increased runoff for additional specifications. See permit form
attached to Ord. 9-1997.
      (2)   Utility installation/right-of-way permit and bond requirements.
         (a)   Any and all construction and utility installations within county
right-of-way shall require a permit. The organization responsible for the
construction/installation shall obtain the permit. A private individual must
have the contractor obtain the permit. Any subcontractors or installation
representatives working under contract for the owner shall be bound by the
permit. Said permit is to be accompanied by a permit bond from a reputable
surety in the name of the Board of Commissioners. The bond amount shall be as
established by the County Engineer with a minimum of $2500 per road cut. A
yearly renewable bond may be obtained for a aggregate amount of $25,000. The
renew date shall be January 1 for a yearly bond. Bonds on major road cuts shall
remain in effect for a period of not less than one year after final inspection
by the County Engineer. A major road cut shall be defined as any cut within the
county right-of-way where:
            1.   The surface width of cut is 24 inches or greater, or
            2.   A cut is run parallel to the road surface lower than a line
running at a 45 degree angle from the edge of pavement where the pavement
surface may be damaged by future settlement of the cut area. Cuts outside of
the edge of pavement with a width of six inches or less shall not be considered
a major cut. Plans or drawings of the proposed work shall accompany all
requests for permits.
         (b)   The intent of this permit is to regulate construction within the
right-of-way to limit damages to the highway system and maintain a safe highway
system. It is not intended to establish a permanent location for utilities
within the right-of-way. Utilities shall continue to be responsible for
relocation as required.
         (c)   Permits can be obtained at the office of the County Engineer,
215-B W. High St., Lawrenceburg, IN. See the permit form for reference as to
violation of these provisions. This specification sets forth additional
regulations not necessarily mentioned on the permit form.
   (B)   Road cuts. It is the intent of the Board of Commissioners to limit the
number of open cuts allowed across public roads. Care should be taken to limit
the required road cuts necessary within a given project. Open or trench cuts
will not be allowed across any paved roadway unless special permission is
granted on a per cut basis.
   (C)   Trench excavation and backfill.
      (1)   Utility excavations under the road shall be backfilled to subgrade
level in accordance with section 211 of the InDOT Standard Specifications with
grade “B” Borrow. On steep grades (6% or greater), cuts ran parallel with the
road surface either under or within two feet of the paved surface shall be
backfilled with clay material at it's optimum moisture content and compacted to
100% modified proctor.
      (2)   The road surface shall be repaired to the minimum requirements for
new construction or of the same thickness and type of materials as was existing
whichever would provide the greatest structural capacity. Road cuts made
through concrete pavements shall be repaired as directed by the County
Engineer.
      (3)   All road cuts shall be made in an expedient a manner as possible to
cause a minimal amount of delay or inconvenience to the traveling public. No
more than 200 LF of trench is to be open at one time.
      (4)   Maintenance on road cuts shall be required for a period of one year
from date of patching. Any settlement during this period shall be repaired to
the satisfaction of the County Engineer.
(BC Ord. 9-1997, passed 6-2-97)
§ 150.47 STANDARDS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   Any road being constructed with the intent of becoming county maintained or
petitioned as a county road shall meet the following minimum standards. See §
150.48 for drainage elements applicable to new construction.
   (A)   Street classification.
      (1)   Local street shall be any street not designed as a through street.
It shall include all cul-de-sac streets and other streets designed for an
anticipated traffic count of less than 1000 VPD.
      (2)   Collector shall be any other street.
      (3)   Where streets are designed to serve industrial or commercial
subdivisions or sites, or developments requiring service by many heavy
vehicles, the minimum design shall be that for the collector street.
   (B)   Pavement design.
      (1)   General. It is the intent of these specifications to establish a
minimum allowable pavement section. All pavements shall be designed for a 20
year service life. Certification of design and design calculations shall be
submitted at time of plan review. All designs shall be certified by a
registered professional engineer.
      (2)   Minimum roadway sections.
 C.A.B. Bituminous   Concrete
        (w/1" surf.)
          C.A.B. Bituminous   Concrete
                 (w/1" surf.)
Local     4"     -            6"
1.
or
2.        8"     4"           -
or               7½"         -
3.        -
Collector
1.        6"     -            7"
or
2.        12"    6"           -
or
3.        -      10"          -
 
      (3)   Rigid pavements.
         (a)   Local and cul-de-sac streets. A six-inch plain concrete pavement
on four inches, compacted aggregate base on compacted subgrade. Concrete shall
be Class A, structural concrete.
         (b)   Collector streets. A seven-inch plain concrete pavement six
inches compacted aggregate base on compacted subgrade. Concrete shall be Class
A, structural concrete.
      (4)   Flexible pavement.
         (a)   Local and cul-de-sac streets.
            110 lbs/SY #11 Hot Asphalt Concrete (HAC) surface on 330 lbs/SY #5
Base (HAC) on 8 inches of compacted #53 base on compacted subgrade; or
            110 lbs/SY #11 HAC surface on 715 lbs/SY #5 HAC base or 330 lbs/SY
#5 base on 330 lbs/SY #5D base on compacted subgrade.
         (b)   Collector street.
            110 lbs/SY #11 HAC surface on 550 lbs/SY #5 HAC base on 12 inches
of compacted #53 base on compacted subgrade; or
            110 lbs/SY #11 HAC surface on 220 lbs/SY #9 binder on 330 lbs/SY #5
HAC base on 330 lbs/SY #5D base or on compacted subgrade.
      (5)   Other acceptable pavement designs. In lieu of the minimum
specifications for pavement as set out in the above, variances may be granted
for other certified pavement designs, as designed by a professional engineer
who is an experienced soils and testing engineer. The design shall be based
upon a 20-year service life. The design shall take into account the strength of
the soils on site and the anticipated present and future traffic loads on the
proposed roadway. This design shall be submitted for review and approval prior
to construction. The inclusion of this section is to allow for innovative
approaches to design, utilizing various engineering materials and practice in
order to enhance overall performance.
   (C)   Street layout and design standards.
      (1)   Minimum right-of-way. Right-of-way width shall be a minimum of 50
feet. However, areas where the roadside swales cannot be fit into the required
minimum shall be extended to the toe of slope in fill areas and to the
backslope on cut areas.
      (2)   Vertical alignment.
         (a)   Minimum slope: 0.5 %
         (b)   Maximum slope: 8.0%
         (c)   Vertical curve length: 100 feet (minimum), but not less than 20
feet for each percentage of algebraic difference in grade.
         (d)   Minimum site distance: 200 feet
      (3)   Horizontal alignment.
         (a)   Minimum radius of curve
            1.   Residential: 100 feet
            2.   Nonresidential: 200 feet
         (b)   Minimum length of tangent: 100 feet
         (c)   Minimum sight distance: 200 feet
         (d)   Minimum corner radius: 20 feet
      (4)   Cul-de-sac.
         (a)   Minimum R/W: 50 foot radius
         (b)   Minimum radius paved surface: 35 feet (measured to centerline of
roadway)
         (c)   No obstructions or islands are to be within this area unless
area is properly drained
         (d)   Maximum slope to be 3% in any direction.
      (5)   Typical cross section. Typical cross section as shown in Fig. 1 as
attached to Ord. 9-1997 shall be constructed. See §
150.48 for drainage elements.
      (6)   Pavement widths. Pavement widths shall be based on the average VPD
with an average of 7 VPD generated per lot.
 
Local:     less than 200 VPD                     18'
           200 VPD thru 1,000 VPD                20'
Collector: over 1,000 VPD and all other roadways 22'
 
   (D)   Traffic signs. New roadways shall be signed in accordance with the
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for regulatory and warning signs.
Street name signs shall also be required.
(BC Ord. 9-1997, passed 6-2-97)
§ 150.48 DRAINAGE.
   Any changes in private drainage that flows into or across the county right-
of-way shall be subject to these regulations and specifications.
   (A)   Increased runoff due to new construction.
      (1)   Whenever private drainage is changed such that an increased amount
of surface runoff is directed to an existing county right-of-way a certified
drainage design may be required by the County Engineer. This will be provided
prior to the issuance of the required permit for construction within the county
right-of-way. If it is determined by the County Engineer that the change in
runoff will adversely affect the roadway he may require the runoff to be
detained on site and released at a rate similar to that which previously
existed. If an acceptable rate of runoff can be provided by enlarging an
existing through structure, the County Engineer may so direct. The cost of this
improvement shall be bore by the party responsible for the increase in runoff.
      (2)   In addition necessary precautions shall be taken to prevent an
excess of silts and fines from entering the roadside drainage.
   (B)   Driveways and entrances.
      (1)   A determination of the necessity of placing culverts at all
driveways and entrances shall be determined following site investigation by the
County Highway Department. The Highway Department may consult with the County
Engineer in making any determinations under this section. If following this
investigation it is determined that the placement of a culvert is necessary due
to drainage and other considerations set forth then the following
specifications shall apply:
         (a)   The minimum length of culvert shall be 20 feet. Longer lengths
may be required due to the nature of the site, drainage, storm water flow, and
the nature of the driveway being constructed.
         (b)   Diameter of the culvert shall be specified by the Highway
Department based upon consideration of the amount of storm water flow.
         (c)   Culverts shall be constructed of corrugated steel, aluminum
pipe, concrete pipe, or plastic pipe (smooth interior only) with said materials
being subject to approval of the Highway Department based upon consideration of
the site, drainage, storm water flow, and the nature of the driveway being
constructed.
         (d)   Minimum cover over the culvert shall be eight inches of
aggregate or such additional amount as may be determined appropriate by the
Highway Department in consideration of the nature of the site, drainage, storm
water flow, and nature of the driveway being constructed.
         (e)   No headwalls or other obstructions over four inches in height
shall be allowed on the county right-of-way. The culvert is to be installed at
the centerline of the ditch.
      (2)   Temporary construction drives shall be graded lower than the
pavement of any adjacent roadways so as not to permit water to pond on said
roadway. Culvert installation in accordance with these specifications must be
completed before a certificate of occupancy permit may be issued by the County
Building Department. The Building Department shall conduct any final
inspections regarding the specifications set forth in this section.
   (C)   New roadways.
      (1)   Certified design. All elements of storm drainage shall be designed
by a certified professional. This includes all pipes, ditches, temporary or
permanent storage basins, inlet sizes and spacing, as well as, any other
drainage related feature. Design plans shall show all drainage elements with
design calculations submitted at the time of plan submittal. Plans shall show
drainage flow directions.
      (2)   Roadside swales. Roadside swales for new construction shall be
constructed as shown in the typical section. Swales having a grade of 3% to 5%
shall have a three-foot sod bottom. Swales having a slope in excess of 5% shall
have a concrete gutter, constructed in accordance with the standard
specifications. Riprap ditches may be allowed in lieu of concrete gutter if
appropriately designed. Outlets of all drainage structures shall be protected
from erosion by approved means.
      (3)   Large drainage structures. Culverts, bridges and other drainage
structures larger than 60 inches in diameter shall require special approval as
to design, location and construction.
      (4)   Edge drains. Pavements constructed on 3% or more grade or along
side of a hill where finish grade is 15 feet or more below the surrounding hill
side shall require four-inch edge drains. This shall be on both sides on steep
grades and on the up-hill side only on hillsides. These shall be constructed in
accordance with the standard specifications. See under drain detail.
      (5)   Cross culverts. All cross culverts shall extend from center to
center of ditch and shall be sized according to a certified drainage plan.
Connections of two or more sections of pipe shall be with a pre-manufactured
banding device. Cross culverts shall require end sections.
      (6)   Materials. Storm drainage materials shall meet the requirements of
the standard specifications.
      (7)   Erosion control. Precautions shall be taken during construction to
prevent erosion as directed by the County Engineer. These shall include straw
bales, silt basins, silt fence or other measures as required to prevent excess
erosion from the right-of-way.
(BC Ord. 9-1997, passed 6-2-97)
§ 150.49 CONSTRUCTION.
   Construction shall be in accordance with Indiana Department of
Transportation Standard Specifications.
   (A)   Subgrade preparation. Unless otherwise provided, the upper six inches
of all subgrade shall be uniformly compacted to at least 100% standard density
as determined by the provisions of AASHTO, T99, Compaction and Density of
Soils. During subgrade preparation and after its completion, adequate drainage
shall be provided to prevent water from standing on the subgrade. The subgrade
shall be so constructed that it will have as nearly as possible uniform density
throughout. After compaction and final grading, the subgrade shall be proof
rolled with a roller weighing not less than 20 tons. At areas not accessible to
the roller, the required compaction shall be obtained with mechanical tamps or
vibrators. All soft, yielding or otherwise unsuitable material which will not
compact properly shall be removed. Any holes or depressions resulting from the
removal of such unsuitable material shall be filled with satisfactory material
and compacted to conform with the surrounding subgrade surface. No placement of
pavement or base material shall be permitted prior to inspection of subgrade
and at no time when the subgrade is frozen or muddy. No hauling shall be done
nor equipment moved over the subgrade when its condition is such that undue
distortion results. If these conditions are present the subgrade shall be
protected with plank runways, mats, or other satisfactory means before hauling
is done thereon.
   (B)   Rigid pavement construction. The subgrade shall be dampened just prior
to concrete placement as directed by the inspector. Plain concrete pavement
shall be in accordance with Section 501 of the Standard Specifications.
Concrete shall be finished by machine or vibratory screed except on widened
portions, at intersections or other areas where hand finishing will be
permitted. Transverse contraction joints shall be placed at intervals not to
exceed 15 feet spacing. Closer spacing to average 12 feet shall be encouraged.
Transverse contraction joints may be formed or sawed dummy groove, ribbon or
pre-molded strip type, and shall be ¼ the pavement depth. All sawed transverse
joints shall be sawed within eight hours after placement of the concrete.
Expansion joints with ½ inch pre-formed joint filler shall be placed at a
maximum spacing of 500 feet. Expansion joints shall be placed at all
intersections and at catch basins and manholes in line of pavement. All
expansion joints shall have one inch diameter by 18 inch smooth epoxy coated
rebars spaced at one foot centers installed at ½ the pavement depth. Bars shall
have five-inch dowel caps installed on alternating ends of the bars, see the
Standard Specifications for details. All transverse and expansion joints extend
back-of-curb to back-of-curb for the full width of pavement. All joints shall
be sealed in accordance with the Standard Specifications. Whenever placement of
concrete is interrupted and not resumed within 45 minutes, a load transfer
joint shall be required. Whenever the width of pavement is to be greater than
13 feet, longitudinal joints shall be constructed to divide the pavement in
driving lanes. This shall be accomplished by a deformed key plate installed
prior to placement of the concrete or by installation of sawed longitudinal
joints in accordance with the standard specifications. Longitudinal joints
shall be tied together with #4 bars three feet long at 24-inch spacing. Joint
layout shall be approved prior to the placement of concrete. The method of
curing shall be a white pigmented curing compound type 2, complying with AASHTO
M 148 and shall be applied in one or two applications as directed by the County
Engineer. When applied in two applications, the second shall follow the first
within 30 minutes.
   (C)   Flexible pavement construction. Pavement shall be constructed in
accordance with the requirements of Section 401 of the Standard Specifications.
Materials shall comply with sections 303, 304 and 403 of the Standard
Specifications. See also §
150.47(B)(4) for material descriptions.
   (D)   Concrete curb and gutter. Typical cross section shall be as shown on
the sheets attached to Ordinance 9-1997. When curbs and gutters are built in
conjunction with concrete pavements, expansion and contraction joints are to be
placed at the same locations as in the pavement slab. Unless poured
concurrently, the curb and gutter shall be tied to the pavement by ½-inch
deformed bars at three-foot intervals. Additional expansion joints shall be
spaced at the ends of all returns and at intervals not to exceed 100 feet.
Contraction joints shall be spaced at 20 feet maximum spacing. The curb and
gutter shall be cured by keeping the concrete moist for three days, or by the
use of a white membrane forming material. All curb installed without properly
installed gutter shall be removed and replaced.
(BC Ord. 9-1997, passed 6-2-97)
§ 150.50 ATTACHMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The following attachments to Ord. 9-1997 are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this code:
   (A)   Utility R/W permit;
   (B)   Driveway permit;
   (C)   Typical section;
   (D)   Pipe underdrain; and
   (E)   Typical concrete curb and gutter.
(BC Ord. 9-1997, passed 6-2-97)
ARTICLE VII. BUILDING CONSTRUCTION BONDS
§ 150.60 BUILDING CONSTRUCTION BONDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The bonding requirements for building permits issued by the Dearborn County
Building Department are set out in §§
150.60 through
150.65 of the Dearborn County Code of Ordinances All bonds shall name the
"Dearborn County Board of Commissioners" as the beneficiary of the bond and
shall run for a minimum of one year. A certificate of insurance is not
acceptable for bonding purposes. The bond must name the Dearborn County Board
of Commissioners exclusively and not be subordinate to any other claims against
the bond. The same bond may not be used for more than one permit except as
authorized by the annual building construction bond procedure found in §
150.64.
(BC Ord. 2014-013, passed 11-18-14)
§ 150.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Means, but is not limited to, construction
of structures for commercial, industrial, and/or institutional purposes and
includes construction of a new building and/or renovation and/or additions to
an existing building and construction of any accessory structures on land used
for commercial, industrial, and/or institutional purposes.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Means, but is not limited to, the
construction of a new home, renovation of and/or construction of an addition to
an existing home, construction of an accessory structure (barn, garage, etc.),
and construction of any other structure on land used for residential purposes.
(BC Ord. 2014-013, passed 11-18-14)
§ 150.62 MINIMUM BOND AMOUNTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The minimum bond amounts to be required are found in §
150.63. For subdivisions, additional bonding requirements are required and
information about subdivision bonding requirements can be found in Article 4 of
the Dearborn County Subdivision Control Ordinance.
   (B)   If the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners determine that there is
a higher risk to county infrastructure, or the permitted work is much larger or
complex than normal permitted work, the Dearborn County Building Department
reserves the right to recommend to the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners
that the bond requirement be increased after reviewing the application for
permit and before approving the permit. For large or complex projects, an
engineer's estimate, to be reviewed and approved by the Dearborn County
Engineer, may be requested to determine the bond amount. If there is a
question, the applicant should contact a permit inspector.
(BC Ord. 2014-013, passed 11-18-14)
§ 150.63 MINIMUM BOND AMOUNTS.
   Unless increased under §
150.62(B) above, the minimum bonding amounts are as follows:
   (A)   Residential building construction: $5,000; and
   (B)   Commercial building construction: $25,000.
(BC Ord. 2014-013, passed 11-18-14)
§ 150.64 ANNUAL RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION BONDS.
   The Dearborn County Building Department may allow applicants who intend to
file for multiple residential building permits to have an annual residential
building construction bond rather than filing multiple bonds for each
construction project. The minimum annual residential building construction bond
amount requirement is $25,000. The annual permit bond shall be written so that
it automatically renews, unless the surety gives a written notice 60 days prior
to the annual expiration date. The written notice must be by certified mail to
the Dearborn County Building Department, Attn: Dearborn County Building
Commissioner, 215B West High Street, Lawrenceburg, Indiana 47025. Annual bonds
are not available for commercial building construction and each project must be
bonded individually.
(BC Ord. 2014-013, passed 11-18-14)
§ 150.65 BONDS AND LETTERS OF CREDIT.
   All bonds shall be issued by an insurance company authorized to do business
in the State of Indiana. Letters of credit may not be posted in lieu of the
bonds required by this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2014-013, passed 11-18-14)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation owning or occupying a building, who shall
fail to number such building, or who shall fail to maintain the number of such
building as provided in §§
150.25 through
150.34 shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of those sections and
shall be fined a sum of not less than $10 nor more than $25 for each days
violation. (Ord. 6-1992, passed - -92)
APPENDIX: SCHEDULES OF FEES AND REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
EXHIBIT A: NONRESIDENTIAL FEES AND REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
Type Up-Front Unit Price
Type                                        Up-Front Unit Price
Apartments                                  $305.00  $0.20 per sq. ft.
Condominiums                                $305.00  $0.20 per sq. ft.
Townhouses                                  $305.00  $0.20 per sq. ft.
Hotels and Motels                           $505.00  $0.20 per sq. ft.
Assembly                                    $405.00  $0.20 per sq. ft.
Business                                    $405.00  $0.22 per sq. ft.
Educational                                 $605.00  $0.22 per sq. ft.
Factory and Industrial                      $505.00  $0.18 per sq. ft.
Institutional                               $605.00  $0.24 per sq. ft.
Storage                                     $305.00  $0.10 per sq. ft.
Utility and Miscellaneous                   $205.00  $0.15 per sq. ft.
Elevators                                   $205.00  $50.00 per floor
Communications Facility                     $405.00  $0.14 per sq. ft./lin. ft.
Sign                                        $205.00  $0.10 per sq. ft.
Interior Build-Out                          $155.00  $0.20 per sq. ft.
Re-Roofing                                  $105.00  $0.03 per sq. ft.
Temporary Structures, Tents, and the like   $55.00   $10.00 each
Retaining Walls - over four feet high       $80.00   $1.00 per lin. ft.
Inside Fire Suppression Systems             $155.00  $0.03 per sq. ft.
Hood and Suppression Systems                $155.00  $10.00 per lin. ft.
Fire Alarms                                 $105.00  $0.015 per sq. ft.
Electric Service                            $105.00  $10.00 per meter
Gas Service                                 $105.00  $5.00 per meter
Foundation Release                          $305.00
Re-Inspection Fee                           $55.00
Temporary Occupancy Permit - to be paid up- $105.00
front
Unspecified Permit Fee - For any permit type not specifically listed in this
fee schedule, the fee shall be calculated to the most similar permit type, to
be determined at the discretion of the Building Commissioner.
Exemption to above schedule of fees - Any nonprofit organization hosting a
charitable function, e.g., carnival or festival, involving the set up or
construction of temporary buildings, booths and/or shelters and temporary
electric.
EXHIBIT B: RESIDENTIAL FEES AND REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
Type Fee
Type                                                                 Fee
One-Family Dwelling
   2,500 sq. ft. or larger: $0.18 per sq. ft. (includes garage)   $355.00
   If basement is finished, it will be included in square footage
Two-Family Dwelling
   3,000 sq. ft. or larger: $0.18 per sq. ft. (includes garage)   $505.00
   If basement is finished, it will be included in square footage
Modular Residence                                                    $155.00
Second floor finish on site                                          $80.00
Manufactured Residence                                               $105.00
Single wide                                                          $155.00
Double wide
Additions and Alterations                                            $155.00
   2,000 sq. ft. or larger: $0.18 per sq. ft. (includes garage)   $55.00
Electric service extra fee
Detached Garage                                                      $55.00
Electric service extra fee                                           $55.00
Accessory Building                                                   $80.00
   Pole building, shed, and the like                              $55.00
Poured foundation extra fee                                          $55.00
Electric service extra fee
Swimming Pools                                                       $55.00
Above ground                                                         $155.00
In-ground
Electric Service                                                     $55.00
Gas Service                                                          $55.00
Foundation Release                                                   $55.00
Re-Inspection                                                        $55.00
Temporary Occupancy Permit - to be paid up front                     $55.00
Unspecified Permit Fee
For any permit type not specifically listed in this fee schedule, the fee
shall be calculated to the most similar permit type, to be determined at the
discretion of the Building Commissioner.
   The Building Commissioner shall have the power to increase the number of
required inspections by 50%.
(BC Ord. 1-1984, passed 4-17-84; Am. BC Res. 1995-3, passed 3-6-95; Am. BC Ord.
2000-5, passed 5-15-00; Am. Ord. 2000-6-1, passed 8-7-00; Am. BC Res. 2003-1,
passed 3-3-03; Am. BC Ord. 2005-10, passed 6-21-05; Am. BC Ord. 2005-12, passed
8-2-05; Am. BC Ord. 2008-18, passed 8-19-08; Am. BC Ord. 2013-016, passed 9-17-
13)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of Comprehensive Plan
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The Comprehensive Plan for Dearborn County, Indiana, as adopted by
Resolution of the Board of Commissioners on October 4, 2004, is hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full
herein.
(BC Res. 3-2004, passed 10-4-04; Am. BC Res. 5-2009, passed 4-7-09)
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
152.01   Findings of fact
   
152.02   Statement of purpose
   
152.03   Objectives
General Provisions
   
152.15   Definitions
   
152.16   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.17   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
152.18   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.19   Compliance
   
152.20   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.21   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
152.22   Interpretation
   
152.23   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.35   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.36   Permit procedures
   
152.37   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.50   General standards
   
152.51   Specific standards
   
152.52   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.53   Standards for identified floodways
   
152.54   Standards for identified fringe
   
152.55   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevations and/or
floodways and fringes
   
152.56   Critical facilities
Variance Procedures
   
152.65   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.66   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
152.67   Variance procedures
   
152.68   Conditions for variances
   
152.69   Variance notification
   
152.70   Historic structures
   
152.71   Special conditions
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Erosion control, see
Ch. 94
   County Highway Department private drainage specifications and regulations,
see §
150.48
FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 152.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains, causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands that inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise unprotected
from flood damages.
§ 152.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas, by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers involved in the accommodation of flood waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or may increase flood hazards to other lands;
and
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the county, by fulfilling the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.03 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas: and
   (G)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in
a flood area.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) in which the
principal source of flooding is runoff from rainfall, snowmelt, or a
combination of both. In A zones, flood waters may move slowly or rapidly, but
waves are usually not a significant threat to buildings. These areas are
labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones Al-A30, Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone
A99 on a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM).
They are defined as follows:
      ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual chance
flood event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no
base flood elevation or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      ZONE AE and ZONES A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent
annual chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations
are shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply. (ZONE AE is on new and revised maps in place of ZONES A1-A30.)
      ZONE AO.  Areas subject to inundation by one-percent annual chance
shallow flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain), where average depths
are between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by one-percent annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding), where average depths are one to three
feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are shown
within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      ZONE A99.  Areas subject to inundation by the one-percent annual chance
flood event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an
under-construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special
flood hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a
protection system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for
insurance-rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection
system has reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base
flood elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the ADDITION is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed ADDITION, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the county's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), with base flood depths from one to three feet, where
a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the one-percent annual chance
flood.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain articles for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements,
to develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations that produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (3)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
      (4)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
      (5)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
      (6)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
      (7)   Storage of materials; or
      (8)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   DEVELOPMENT does not include the maintenance of existing structures and
facilities through such activities as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing roads;
nor does it include gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that
do not involve the filling, grading, excavation or construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings or columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure's
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM.  The first phase under which a community participates in
the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). It is intended to provide a first
layer amount of insurance, at subsidized rates, on all insurable structures in
that community, before the effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter its flow capacity.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced before the effective date of the county's first floodplain article.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the county's first floodplain article.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING
MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. The preparation of additional sites by the
construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured
homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED-YEAR FLOOD or 500-YEAR FLOOD. A flood that has a 0.2% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which FEMA or the
Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) has delineated the areas of flood
hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of the county, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of the county, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the county.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, the
FBFM (where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood plus two
feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See "Freeboard.")
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse that have been, or hereafter may be, covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The opera- tion of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, and preserving and
enhancing, where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but
not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain
management regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULA- TIONS. This chapter and other zoning articles,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
articles, and other applications of police power that control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes any combination of federal, state or
local regulations that provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss
and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING or DRY FLOODPROOF- ING. A method of protecting a structure
that ensures that it, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation, with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for
nonresidential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be signed by a registered professional
engineer or architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel that are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE, that
is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to compensate
for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater
than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility that cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair, or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional HARDSHIP
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Board of
Zoning Appeals requires that the variance be exceptional, unusual and peculiar
to the property involved. Mere economic or financial HARDSHIP alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or to put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Survey of Historic
Architectural, Archaeological and Cultural Sites, Structures, Districts, and
Objects.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention article. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition, or any combination thereof. All renewal and new
business flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1,
1997, will include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F).  An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA's determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and is excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars;
      (5)   The top of the first floor of a structure constructed with a crawl
space; provided that the lowest point of the interior grade is at or above the
BFE, and construction meets requirements of division (6)(a); or
      (6)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure, where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters, unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters,
by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total net area of one square inch for every square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or MANU- FACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or
contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for
rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned
by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel, and the
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA; the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, exclud- ing the land (as agreed to between
a willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate
market will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified
appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value),
or adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide, through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced after the effective date of the county's first floodplain article.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or NEW MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the county's first floodplain
article.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to: any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse, which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or, due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD  or 100-YEAR FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter “A” is subject to the one-percent annual chance flood. See
“Regulatory Flood.”
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter “A” is subject to the ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. See “Regulatory
Flood.”
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Any commu- nity that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations consistent with its standards.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
after December 31, 1974, or on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM
of the county, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the initial
FIRM of the county, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything injurious to the safety or health of
the entire county, community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or that unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community's participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed, and
higher amounts of insurance are available, based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure acceptable to and
approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and FEMA. The
regulatory flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
152.17 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the terms “base
flood,” “one-percent annual chance flood,” and “100-year flood.”
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions, during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event
for which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316. That section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared, by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body, to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or articles that were
intended to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in
flood-prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
county subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the county,
generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the county
dated September 16, 1982, as well as any future updates, amendments or
revisions prepared by FEMA with the most recent date. The SFHAs of the Town of
West Harrison, generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of
the town dated January 17, 1985, as well as any future updates, amendments or
revisions prepared by FEMA with the most recent date. (These areas are shown on
a FHBM or FIRM as Zones A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO).
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means the first placement or permanent construction of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation for placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure, whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not
include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of state or
local health, sanitary or safety code requirements, or any alteration of a
historic structure, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a historic structure.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification, or other evidence of compliance required in
this chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X zones shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X zones (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the severity
or type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See “A Zone.”
   ZONE B, ZONE C and ZONE X. Areas identified in the county as areas of
moderate or minimal hazard from the principal source of flooding in the area.
However, buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated
rainfall coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is
available in participating communities, but is not required by regulation in
these zones. (ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONE B and
ZONE C.)
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.16 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.17 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   (A)   This chapter's protection standard is the regulatory flood.
      (1)   The best available regulatory flood data is listed below.
      (2)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party
submitting the detailed engineering study needs to replace existing data with
better data, and submit it to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for
review and approval.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied special flood hazard areas (SFHAs) of Whitewater River and Laughery
Creek, Wilson Creek, Logan Creek, and Tanners Creek shall be as delineated on
the 100-year-flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of the county dated
March 16, 1982, and the corresponding Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM)
dated September 16, 1982, as well as any future updates, amendments or
revisions prepared by FEMA with the most recent date.
   (C)   (1)   The regulatory flood elevation for the studied SFHA of the Ohio
River shall be as delineated on the 100-year-flood profiles in the Flood
Insurance Study of the county dated March 16, 1982, and the corresponding FBFM
dated September 16, 1982, as well as any future updates, amendments or
revisions prepared by FEMA with the most recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory floodway and fringe limits for the studied SFHA of
the Ohio River shall be according to the best data available as provided by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   (D)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each of
the remaining SFHAs delineated as an “A Zone” on the FIRM of the county shall
be according to the best data available as provided by the Indiana Department
of Natural Resources.
   (E)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHA of Whitewater River shall be as delineated on the 100-year-flood
profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of the Town of West Harrison dated July
17, 1984, and the corresponding FBFM dated January 17, 1985, as well as any
future updates, amendments or revisions prepared by FEMA with the most recent
date.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.18 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   In conformance with the provisions of this chapter, a floodplain development
permit shall be required prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.19 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.20 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another article conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.21 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   (1)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is
above the base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA
and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
      (2)   The property owner should be advised to apply for a Letter of Map
Amendment (LOMA).
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.22 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed to neither limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.23 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes, and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   (B)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
   (C)   Therefore, this chapter does not create any liability on the part of
the county, the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, or the state, for any
flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.35 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The County Board of Commissioners hereby appoints the Planning Director to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter, and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.36 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Prior to any development activities, application for a floodplain
development permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator, on forms
furnished by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   The application may include, but not be limited to, the following
plans, in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions
and elevations of the area in question: existing or proposed structures,
earthen fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities, and the
location of the foregoing.
   (C)   Specifically, the following information is required in the
application.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structures in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in National Geodetic Vertical Datum
of 1929 (NGVD);
         (f)   Elevation (in NGVD) to which any nonresidential structure will
be floodproofed;
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or related as a result of proposed development; and
      (2)   Construction stage.
         (a)   Upon placement of the lowest floor or floodproofing, it shall be
the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the NGVD elevation of the lowest floor or floodproofed
elevation, as built.
            1.   The certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by the same.
            2.   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, the
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
         (b)   Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification
shall be at the permit holder’s risk.
         (c)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and
floodproofing elevation survey data submitted.
         (d)   The permit holder shall correct deficiencies detected by such
review before any further work is allowed to proceed.
         (e)   Failure to submit the survey, or failure to make the corrections
required hereby, shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the project.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.37 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of
this chapter that are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following.
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations.
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
152.52 and
152.54 of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization (a copy of
either the actual permit or the floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      (4)   (a)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit.
         (b)   Copies of such permits are to be maintained on file with the
floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (6)   For all buildings constructed subject to this chapter, maintain for
public inspection and furnish upon request local permit documents, damaged
structure inventories, substantial damage determinations, regulatory flood
data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letters of Map Revision
(LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain analysis and regulatory
assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents, and as-built
elevation and floodproofing data.
      (7)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Revision (LOMR) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
county.
      (8)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (9)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
152.36.
      (10)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in accordance with §
152.36.
      (11)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance.
      (12)   Stop work orders
         (a)   Upon notice from the Administrator, work on any building,
structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions of this
chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Be given to the owner of the property, or to his or her agent,
or to the person doing the work; and
            3.   State the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (13)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued under
the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material facts in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Administrator may revoke a permit, upon his or her
determination that the construction, erection, alteration, repair, moving,
demolition, installation or replacement of the structure for which the permit
was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the provisions of
this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05) Penalty, see §
152.99
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.50 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following provisions are required in all SFHAs.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement.
      (1)   Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
      (2)   This standard shall be in addition to, and consistent with,
applicable state requirements for resisting wind forces;
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the flood
protection grade (FPG).
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during flooding
conditions.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the requirements
of new construction contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be undertaken only
if such nonconformity is not further extended or replaced.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space that will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for, and balanced by, an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE.
      (1)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the volume of
storage lost (a replacement ratio of one to one) due to the fill or structure.
      (2)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
immediate watershed in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (3)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of, but adjacent to, the floodplain; provided that the excavated
volume:
         (a)   Will be below the regulatory flood elevation;
         (b)   Will be in the same immediate watershed in which the authorized
fill or structure is located;
         (c)   Will be accessible to the regulatory flood water;
         (d)   Will not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood
water; and
         (e)   Shall not be refilled.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding, and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (6)   (a)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work.
         (b)   Once site work is complete, but before the actual start of
construction, the applicant shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a
certified survey of the excavation and fill sites demonstrating they comply
with this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.51 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   The following provisions are required in all SFHAs.
   (A)   Building protection requirement. In addition to the requirements of §
152.50, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Structural alterations made to:
         (a)   An existing, previously unaltered structure, the cost of which
equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the pre-altered structure (excluding the
value of the land); and
         (b)   Any previously altered structure;
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure that are
valued at more than 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the
value of the land) before the damage occurred;
      (4)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive-loss structure;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This provision does not apply to returning the
existing manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was
removed to avoid flood damage; and
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
   (B)   Residential construction. 
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation).
      (2)   Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D).
   (C)   Nonresidential construction. 
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or nonresidential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above
the base flood elevation).
      (2)   In lieu of being elevated, structures located in all A Zones may be
floodproofed if they are floodproofed in accordance with the following
conditions.
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that, below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood.
         (b)   The structure design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts from debris or ice.
         (c)   Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
152.36(C)(2)(a).
      (3)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
that include fully enclosed areas, formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the base flood elevations, shall be designed to preclude finished
living space, and to allow for the entry and exit of flood waters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
      (2)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum
criteria.
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above foundation interior grade (which must be equal in elevation to, or higher
than, the exterior foundation grade).
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions.
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door), or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door), or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         (f)   Where elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction, prohibiting
the conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension
contrary to the structure's originally approved design, shall be presented as a
condition of issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following conditions.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the Standard
Proctor Test method.
      (2)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the FPG.
      (3)   (a)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading.
         (b)   If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be no steeper than
three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor, including basements, shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for structures constructed with a crawlspace. A residential
or nonresidential structure may be constructed with a crawlspace located below
the flood protection grade, provided that all of the following conditions are
met.
      (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection grade shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters.
         (a)   On each wall, a minimum of one opening having a total net area
of not less than one square inch shall be provided for each square foot of
enclosed area.
         (b)   The bottom of the openings shall be no more than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   The interior grade of the crawlspace must be at or above the base
flood elevation.
      (4)   The interior height of the crawlspace, measured from the interior
grade of the crawlspace to the top of the foundation wall, must not exceed four
feet at any point.
      (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed, to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event.
      (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection grade must be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
      (7)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection grade.
   (G)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG, and
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site:
            1.   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood.
      (2)   (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above
grade, and securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
         (b)   This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be placed
on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has not
been substantially damaged by a flood.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days; and
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for HIGHWAY USE (defined as being on
its wheels or a jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect-
type utilities and security devices, with no permanently attached additions);
or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes stated earlier in
this section.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.52 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities,
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.53 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
152.17, are areas designated as floodways. A floodway is an extremely hazardous
area due to the velocity of flood waters, which carry debris and potential
projectiles, and have erosion potential.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodway, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, and to apply for a permit for construction in a floodway.
      (2)   Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance of a local
building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction or obstruction
activity located in the floodway.
         (a)   This includes land preparation activities, such as filling,
grading, clearing, paving and the like, undertaken before the actual start of
construction of the structure.
         (b)   However, it does exclude non-substantial additions and/or
improvements to existing, lawful residences in a non-boundary river floodway.
            1.   I.C. 14-28-1-26 allows construction of non-substantial
additions and/or improvements to residences in a non-boundary river floodway
without obtaining a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
            2.   Please note that if fill is needed to elevate an addition
above the existing grade, prior approval for the fill is required from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in the floodway.
      (1)   Once a permit has been issued by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit, provided the provisions contained in this subchapter have
been met.
      (2)   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than
the permit issued by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   However, the county's more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed that, acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory flood more
than 0.14 of one foot.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the county shall submit the data and request that FEMA revise the
regulatory flood data.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.54 STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   (A)   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit, provided the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
   (B)   The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of any new or
substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.55 STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS AND/OR
FLOODWAYS AND FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in the floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment, citing the 100-year- flood elevation and the recommended
flood protection grade, has been received from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit or
the floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed
development, a floodplain development permit may be issued; provided the
conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less restrictive than
the conditions received from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, and
the provisions contained in this subchapter have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodway, fringe and 100-year-flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
      (3)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot, and will not increase actual
or potential flood damages.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.56 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   To the extent possible, construction of new critical facilities shall
be located outside the limits of the SFHA.
   (B)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be permissible within
the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is available.
      (1)   Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site.
      (2)   Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that
toxic substances will not be displaced by or released into flood waters.
      (3)   To the extent possible, access routes elevated to or above the FPG
shall be provided to all critical facilities.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05) Penalty, see §
152.99
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 152.65 DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals, as established by County Board of
Commissioners, shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from
requirements of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.66 DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals, when it is alleged the
Floodplain Administrator has made an error in any requirement, decision or
determination in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such
decision to the appropriate court of jurisdiction, as provided by law.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.67 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter; and:
   (A)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage, and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance to the county of the services provided by the proposed
facility;
   (D)   Where applicable, the necessity to the facility of a waterfront
location;
   (E)   The availability for the proposed use of alternative locations that
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flooding for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment of
transport of the flood waters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.68 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not:
         (a)   Result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public
safety or extraordinary public expense;
         (b)   Create nuisances;
         (c)   Cause fraud or victimization of the public; or
         (d)   Conflict with existing laws or articles.
   (B)   No variance or exception for a residential use within a floodway
subject to §§
152.53 and
152.55 of this chapter may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance or exception granted in a floodway subject to §§
152.53 and
152.55 of this chapter will require a permit from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances or exceptions to the provisions for flood hazard reduction
of §
152.51 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances or exceptions may be granted for the reconstruction or
restoration of any structure individually listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Indiana State Survey of Historic Architectural,
Archaeological and Cultural Sites, Structures, Districts, and Objects.
   (G)   Any applicant granted a variance shall be given written notice,
specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the elevation to
which the lowest floor is to be built, and stating that the cost of the flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation (see §
152.69).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and, upon request, shall report any variances to FEMA or the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources (see §
152.69).
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.69 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant granted variance shall be given written notice, over the
signature of a county official, that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance, up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and will report such
variances issued in the county's biennial report submission to FEMA.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.70 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures, upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic
structure, and that the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic
character and design of the structure.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.71 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter and the purposes
of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance
shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   All violations shall be considered a common nuisance and shall be
treated as such.
   (C)   The County Plan Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and, therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
(BC Ord. 2005-8, passed 5-3-05)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
   
153.02   Violations as common nuisance
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
    The Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations for Dearborn County,
Indiana, as adopted by Ordinance 12-1980 of the County Commissioners on 10- 20-
80, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same as if
set forth in full herein.
(BC Ord. 12-1980, passed 10-20- 80; Am. BC Ord. 2-1986, passed 3- 4-86; Am. BC
Ord. 1-1990, passed 1-16-90; Am. BC Ord. 7-1993, passed 5-3-93; Am. BC Ord. 7-
1994, passed 10-17-94; Am. BC Ord. 7-1995, passed 6-19-95; Am. BC Ord. 10-1995,
passed - -95; Am. BC Ord. 3-1996, passed 4-15- 96; Am. BC Ord. 4-1996, passed
4- 15-96; Am. BC Ord. 9-1996, passed 8-19-96; Am. BC Ord. 2-1997, passed 1-27-
97; Am. BC Ord. 18- 1997, passed 11-17-97; Am. BC Ord. 6-2000, passed 7-3-00;
Am. BC Ord. 2-2002, passed 3-4-02; Am. BC Ord. 5-2003, passed 4-7-2003; Am. BC
Ord. 7-2003, passed 5-19-03; Am. BC Ord. 18-2003, passed 10-20-03; Am. BC Ord.
1-2004, passed 2-17-04; Am. BC Ord. 4-2004, passed 4-19-04; Am. BC Ord. 8-2004,
passed 9-20- 04; Am. BC Ord. 2006-4, passed 8- 1-06; Am. BC Ord. 2007-1, passed
2-20-07; Am. BC Ord. 2007-2, passed 6-5-07; Am. BC Ord. 2007- 3, passed 8-7-07;
Am. BC Ord. 2007-4, passed 8-7-07; Am. BC Ord. 2007-6, passed 9-4-07; Am. BC
Ord. 2007-7, passed 9-4-07; Am. BC Ord. 2007-8, passed 9-4- 07; Am. BC Ord.
2007-10, passed 9-18-07; Am. BC Ord. 2007-13, passed 12-18-07; Am. BC Ord.
2008-2, passed 1-15-08; Am. BC Ord. 2008-3, passed 1-15-08; Am. BC Ord. 2008-4,
passed 2-19-08; Am. BC Ord. 2008-5, passed 2-19-08; Am. BC Ord. 2008-6, passed
2-19-08; Am. BC Ord. 2008-7, passed 2-19-08; Am. BC Ord. 2008-8, passed 2-19-
08; Am. BC Ord. 2008-9, passed 2-19-08; Am. BC Ord. 2008-10, passed 4-15-08;
Am. BC Ord. 2008-11, passed 4-15-08; Am. BC Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-2-08; Am. BC
Ord. 2008-21, passed 9-2-08; Am. BC Ord. 2008-23, passed 10-7-08; Am. BC Ord.
2008-24, passed 11-18-08; Am. BC Ord. 2008-25, passed 11-18-08; Am. BC Ord.
2008-26, passed 11-18-08; Am. BC Ord. 2008-27, passed 11-18-08; Am. BC Ord.
2008-28, passed 11-18-08; Am. BC Ord. 1-2009, passed 2-17-09; Am. BC Ord. 2-
2009, passed 2-17-09; Am. BC Ord. 3-2009, passed 2-17-09; Am. BC Ord. 5-2009,
passed 4-7-09; Am. BC Ord. 6-2009, passed 4-7-09; Am. BC Ord. 7-2009, passed 4-
7-09; Am. BC Ord. 8-2009, passed 4-7-09; Am. BC Ord. 11-2009, passed 12-15-09;
Am. BC Ord. 12-2009, passed 12-15-09; Am. BC Ord. 2010-013, passed 12-7-10; Am.
BC Ord. 2011- 014, passed 11-1-11; Am. BC Ord. 2011-017, passed 11-15-11; Am.
BC Ord. 2011-018, passed 11-15-11; Am. BC Ord. 2011-019, passed 11- 15-11; Am.
BC Ord. 2012-003, passed 2-7-12; Am. BC Ord. 2012-004, passed 2-7-12; Am. BC
Ord. 2012-005, passed 2-7-12; Am. BC Ord. 2012-006, passed 2-7-12; Am. BC Ord.
2012-007, passed 2-7- 12; Am. BC Ord. 2012-013, passed 7-17-12; Am. BC Ord.
2012-014, passed 7-17-12; Am. BC Ord. 2012- 015, passed 7-17-12; Am. BC Ord.
2012-016, passed 7-17-12; Am. BC Ord. 2012-020, passed 9-18-12; Am. BC Ord.
2012-021, passed 9- 18-12; Am. BC Ord. 2012-022, passed 9-18-12; Am. BC Ord.
2012-023, passed 9-18-12; Am. BC Ord. 2013-006, passed 4-2-13; Am. BC Ord.
2013-007, passed 4-2-13; Am. BC Ord. 2013-008, passed 4-2-13; Am. BC Ord. 2013-
013, passed 7-2-13; Am. BC Ord. 2013-014, passed 7-2-13; Am. BC Ord. 2014-002,
passed 2-4-14; Am. BC Ord. 2014-004, passed 5-7-14; Am. BC Ord. 2014-009,
passed 9- 16-14; Am. BC Ord. 2014-010, passed 9-16-14; Am. BC Ord. 2015-005,
passed 4–7-15; Am. BC Ord. 2015-006, passed 4-17-15; Am. BC Ord. 2015-009,
passed 7-7-15; Am. BC Ord. 2015-010, passed 7-7-15; Am. Ord. 2016-001, passed
1-19-16; Am. Ord. 2016-007, passed 8-2-16; Am. BC Ord. 2017-003, passed 6-6-17;
Am. BC Ord. 2017-008, passed 8-15-17; Am. BC Ord. 2017-009, passed 8-15-17; Am.
BC Ord. 2017-011, passed 9-19-17; Am. BC Ord. 2017-012, passed 9-19-17; Am. BC
Ord. 2018-001, passed 1-2-18; Am. BC Ord. 2018-005, passed 4-3-18; Am. BC Ord.
2018-006, passed 4-3-18; Am. BC Ord. 2018-008, passed 6-5-18; Am. BC Ord. 2018-
011, passed 11-7-18; Am. BC Ord. 2019-001, passed 3-5-19; Am. BC Ord. 2019-002,
passed 3-19-19; Am. BC Ord. 2019-007, passed 6- 18-19; Am. BC Ord. 2019-012,
passed 10-15-19; Am. BC Ord. 2019-013, passed 10-15-19; Am. BC Ord. 2019-014,
passed 10-15-19; Am. BC Ord. 2019-019, passed 12- 17-19; Am. BC Ord. 2019-020,
passed 12-17-19; Am. BC Ord. 2019-021, passed 12-17-19; Am. BC Ord. 2019-022,
12-17-19; Am. BC Ord. 2020-002, passed 2-18-20; Am. BC Ord. 2020-004, passed 3-
17-20; Am. BC Ord. 2020-005, passed 3-17-20; Am. BC 2021-010, passed 9-7-21;
Am. BC Ord. 2022-005, passed 4-5-22; Am. BC Ord. 2022-015, passed 11-1-22; Am.
BC Ord. 2023-001, passed 1-17-23)
Editor’s note:
   Zoning map amending ordinance numbers are not included in the history listed
above.
§ 153.02 VIOLATIONS AS COMMON NUISANCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1012, any structure erected, raised, or
converted, or land or premises used, in violation of the Dearborn County Zoning
Ordinance and/or the Dearborn County Subdivision Control Ordinance is a common
nuisance and the owner or possessor of the structure, land, or premises is
liable for maintaining a common nuisance.
   (B)   The County Auditor and/or the attorney representing the County
Planning & Zoning Department may initiate a cause of action in any court in the
county having jurisdiction and seek any and all remedies outlined in I.C. 36-1-
6-4 in an effort to have the common nuisance rectified.
(BC Ord. 2021-009, passed 8-17-21)
CHAPTER 154: UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
Section
   
154.01   Title and scope
   
154.02   Adoption by reference
   
154.03   Administration
   
154.04   Public nuisance
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Unsafe buildings and unsafe premises
   
154.07   Order and notice
   
154.08   Hearing and review
   
154.09   Emergency orders
   
154.10   Manner of performance
   
154.11   Costs
   
154.12   Unsafe Building Fund
   
154.13   Standard of work
   
154.14   Inspection warrants
   
154.15   Enforcement
   
154.16   Violations
   
154.17   Separability
§ 154.01 TITLE AND SCOPE.
   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq., this chapter is established and
shall be known as the Unsafe Building Law of Dearborn County, Indiana. The
regulations of this chapter apply throughout the unincorporated areas of the
County of Dearborn, Indiana ("Dearborn County").
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.02 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29 (collectively "State Code") is hereby
incorporated by reference as the Unsafe Building Law of Dearborn County,
Indiana. All proceedings within Dearborn County for the inspection, repair and
removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by the State Code and by the
provisions of this chapter. In the event the provisions of this chapter
conflict with the State Code, then the State Code shall control. The building
standards and rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, as set forth in the Indiana Code and in the Indiana Administrative
Code, are adopted as the building standards and rules for matters considered
under this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Dearborn County Building Inspector is authorized to administer the
Dearborn County Unsafe Building Law and to order the repair or removal of
unsafe buildings and structures in accordance with the procedures set forth or
incorporated in this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.04 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   All buildings, structures or portions thereof which are determined after
inspection by the enforcement authority to be unsafe, as defined in this
chapter, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by
repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Dearborn County Building Department.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Dearborn County Building Inspector, or designee
of the Building Inspector.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners acting as the
primary hearing board for disputes that arise under this chapter. An employee
of the enforcement authority may not be designated as the hearing authority.
   KNOWN OR RECORDED FEE INTEREST, LIFE ESTATE INTEREST, OR EQUITABLE INTEREST
OF A CONTRACT PURCHASER. Any fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable
interest of a contract purchaser held by a person whose identity and address
may be determined from:
      (1)   An instrument recorded in the Dearborn County Recorder's Office;
      (2)   Written information or actual knowledge received by the department;
      (3)   A review of department records that is sufficient to identify
information that is reasonably ascertainable.
   KNOWN OR RECORDED SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property,
including a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a mortgage
interest, a lien as evidenced by a certificate of sale issued under I.C. 6-1.1-
24, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser, that:
      (1)   May be affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this
chapter; and
      (2)   Is held by a person whose identity and address may be determined
from:
         (a)   An instrument recorded in:
            1.   The Dearborn County Recorder's Office; or
            2.   The Dearborn County Auditor's Office in the case of a lien
evidenced by a certificate of sale issued under I.C. 6-1.1-24;
            3.   Written information or actual knowledge received by the
department; or
            4.   A review of department records that is sufficient to identify
information that is reasonably ascertainable.
   SEALING A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Padlocking the entries to the building or
structure and posting the building or structure with a notice that forbids
entry to the building or structure and securing all other entry points to the
building or structure from entry as prescribed by the enforcement authority.
Sealing a building or structure can only be completed after an inspection of
the building or structure to ensure that the building is not occupied.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a mortgage interest,
a present possessory interest, or an equitable interest of a contract
purchaser.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.06 UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND UNSAFE PREMISES.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, an unsafe building is a building or
structure, or any part of a building or structure, that is:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to the public health;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance; or
      (6)   Vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow human
habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter the following are considered unsafe
premises:
      (1)   An unsafe building; and
      (2)   The tract of real property on which the unsafe building is located.
   (C)   For purposes of this chapter, a tract of real property that does not
contain a building or structure, not including land used for production
agriculture, is considered unsafe premises if the tract of real property is:
      (1)   A fire hazard;
      (2)   A hazard to public health;
      (3)   A public nuisance; or
      (4)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.07 ORDER AND NOTICE.
   (A)   The enforcement authority is authorized to issue an order requiring
any remedies described in I.C. 36-7-9-5 and containing the information and time
limit required by I.C. 36-7-9-5.
   (B)   An order that requires sealing a building under I.C. 36-7-9-5(a)
requires notification to each person holding any fee interest or life estate.
For other orders issued under I.C. 36-7-9-5, each person having a substantial
property interest in the unsafe premises must be notified.
   (C)   Notification under this section must be made in accordance with I.C.
36-7-9-25.
§ 154.08 HEARING AND REVIEW.
   Hearing and review are provided as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-7 and 36-7-9-8.
A hearing is not required to carry out an order to seal a building. However, a
previously issued order to seal may be modified or rescinded only if the
persons previously notified have been notified of the change or rescission by
means of a written statement in the manner prescribed in I.C. 36-7-9-6. The
order to seal does not become final until ten days from issuance within which
time a fee interest or life estate holder may, in writing, request a hearing.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.09 EMERGENCY ORDERS.
   Emergency action in order to protect life, safety or property may be taken
without issuing an order or giving notice, but shall be taken in accordance
with I.C. 36-7-9-9. The action is limited to the abatement of any immediate
danger. Dearborn County may recover the costs of the action by filing suit in
the Dearborn Circuit Court against persons then holding the fee interest or a
life estate interest in the unsafe premises. Alternatively, the enforcement
authority may bring a civil action under I.C. 36-7-9-17 and 36-7-9-22, alleging
the existence of unsafe premises which present an immediate danger to the
community sufficient to warrant emergency action. In such cases, there shall be
a hearing within ten days on the complaint.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.10 MANNER OF PERFORMANCE.
   The manner of performance of work, including bids and notifications, must be
in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-11.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.11 COSTS.
   The cost of the work performed under this chapter shall be the
responsibility of the persons that hold fee interests or life estate interests
in the unsafe premises. Costs shall be determined on the basis of the factors
listed in I.C. 36-7-9-12. Objections and requests for a hearing on bills
submitted to responsible parties may be filed in the Dearborn Circuit Court.
Unpaid costs are subject to the procedure in I.C. 36-7-9-13, and may result in
a judgment against the real or personal property of the persons who are
responsible for the costs.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.12 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of
Dearborn County in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.13 STANDARD OF WORK.
   All work for reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition shall be
performed in a good, workmanlike manner according to the accepted standards and
practices in the trade. The provisions of the building laws, as defined in I.C.
22-12-1-3, adopted as rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission (675 IAC), including 675 Indiana Administrative Code 12-4-9 and 675
Indiana Administrative Code 12-4-11(a), shall be considered standard and
acceptable practice for all matters covered by this chapter or orders issued
pursuant to this chapter by the Building Inspector of Dearborn County, Indiana.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.14 INSPECTION WARRANTS.
   The enforcement authority may obtain an inspection warrant from the Dearborn
Circuit Court in cases when the owner or possessors refuse the enforcement
authority permission to inspect as provided in I.C. 36-7-9-16.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement authority may request the County Attorney of Dearborn
County, Indiana to bring a civil action in the Dearborn Circuit Court seeking
remedies authorized in I.C. 36-7-9-18 through I.C. 36-7-9-22, including a
request to the Dearborn Circuit Court for a civil penalty of up to $5,000.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.16 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to:
      (1)   Remain in, use or enter a building in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly interfere with or delay the carrying out of an order made
under this chapter;
      (3)   Knowingly obstruct, damage or interfere with persons engaged or
property used in performing any work or duty under this chapter;
      (4)   Erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or premises, or cause or
permit the same to be done, contrary to or in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or any order issued by the Building Inspector; and/
or
      (5)   Fail to comply with I.C. 36-7-9-27 regarding information on
transfers of property interest.
   (B)   Violators shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each
offense. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
§ 154.17 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter be
declared unconstitutional or invalid, for any reason, the remainder of this
chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(BC Ord. 2014-003, passed 2-18-14)
CHAPTER 155: ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Transportation and placement of certain materials
   
155.04   Application to zoning districts
   
155.05   Conflict with other laws
   
155.06   Exceptions
   
155.07   Enforcement
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purpose of environmental regulations.
      (1)   To protect the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens
of Dearborn County, Indiana;
      (2)   To ensure the preservation and continued use and enjoyment of the
environment and ecosystem;
      (3)   To enhance property values and attract new residents;
      (4)   To ensure the viability of the corporation limits; and
      (5)   It is deemed essential by the county that these protections be put
in place and enforced.
   (B)   These purposes are advanced through a prohibition against the
importing of certain materials and storage, in any form, whether temporary or
permanent in nature, within the corporate boundaries of Dearborn County.
   (C)   It is the intention of the county through this chapter to preserve and
protect the public health and environment and to enforce these provisions as
necessary to that end.
(BC Ord. 2018-004, passed 4-3-18)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words in
the present tense include the future tense. The singular number includes the
plural, and the plural, the singular. Terms not defined in this section shall
have the meanings customarily assigned to them.
   COUNTY. The County of Dearborn, State of Indiana.
   COUNTY LIMITS. The corporate legal municipal boundaries of the County of
Dearborn, State of Indiana. Said boundaries shall include all incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the county.
   COAL ASH. The definition of COAL ASH shall include all coal combustion
residuals or CCRs, including fly ash, bottom ash, boiler slag, flue gas
desulfurization material, fluidized bed combustion ash, cenospheres, scrubber
residues. All such terms shall have their plain meaning as well as the meanings
referenced by the EPA and IDEM. Concrete which has been created utilizing coal
ash shall not be considered COAL ASH for the purposes of this chapter.
   FILL MATERIAL. Material used to fill in a depression or hole in the ground
or create mounds or otherwise artificially change the grade or elevation of
real property.
   PERSON. Includes a company, a firm, a partnership, a limited liability
company, or a corporation, as well as an individual.
   PLACEMENT. Any offloading of any quantity, from a vessel, a vehicle or by a
person, for any duration of time, whether intentional or accidental.
   SHALL. The word SHALL means that it is mandatory.
   TRANSPORTATION. The movement by any manner or means, whether by powered or
unpowered vessel or vehicle, or by a person, via land, air or water, above or
below ground.
(BC Ord. 2018-004, passed 4-3-18)
§ 155.03 TRANSPORTATION AND PLACEMENT OF CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   The transportation of coal ash from outside the county limits to inside the
county limits for the purpose of usage as fill material within the county
limits shall be unlawful and prohibited. This is true for any duration of
placement and any location within the county limits for any purpose, regardless
of approval or permitting by any agency, including those of the state or
Federal government.
(BC Ord. 2018-004, passed 4-3-18)
§ 155.04 APPLICATION TO ZONING DISTRICTS.
   All zoning districts lying within the county limits are subject to the
regulations herein. If there is a conflict between the requirements of the
zoning district and the requirements of this chapter, this chapter shall apply.
(BC Ord. 2018-004, passed 4-3-18)
§ 155.05 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   This chapter shall be given full force and effect for all actions taken
within the county limits, and any conflict with any other laws, whether local,
state or Federal in jurisdiction, shall be construed in favor of this chapter.
(BC Ord. 2018-004, passed 4-3-18)
§ 155.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   A variance to this prohibition may be requested by submitting the same
in writing to the Dearborn County Board of Commissioners. The application shall
state;
      (1)   The identity and chemical composition of all prohibited materials
to be transported.
      (2)   The amount of each prohibited material and the percentage
composition as compared to other materials contained therein.
      (3)   The number of such shipments.
      (4)   The frequency of such shipments.
      (5)   The origin and destination of such shipments.
      (6)   The purpose of the transportation.
      (7)   The party or parties responsible for transportation and placement.
   (B)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners shall hear from the
applicant, the general public, and any other persons deemed beneficial to
decision-making, and after doing so shall deliberate and decide as to whether
to grant a variance within 30 days of the hearing.
   (C)   The Dearborn County Board of Commissioners shall base their decision
on the following factors:
      (1)   Potential harm to the health of the citizens of the county.
      (2)   Potential harm to the environment of the county.
      (3)   Whether or not there are sufficient safeguards in place to
guarantee the safety of human health and the environment.
   (D)   Denial of a variance may be reviewed by the County Superior or Circuit
Court.
   (E)   Should a variance by granted by the Dearborn County Board of
Commissioners, said variance shall be subject to the entire Dearborn County
Zoning Ordinance which includes, but is not limited to: Article 8: Floodplain
Regulations, Article 25: General Requirements, and specifically Section 2572 -
Environmental Provisions.
(BC Ord. 2018-004, passed 4-3-18)
§ 155.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer, or otherwise, who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be immediately subject to its penalties.
   (B)   The presence of any materials prohibited by this chapter shall be
prima facie evidence of a violation of these provisions, and subject the person
or persons possessing the materials to its penalty provisions, along with the
entity on whose behalf said person is operating.
   (C)   The erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
demolition, moving, or maintenance of any building, structure, or appurtenance
which is begun, continued, or maintained contrary to any provisions of this
chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and in violation of this chapter
and unlawful.
   (D)   The county may institute a suit for injunction in the Circuit Court or
Superior Court of the County to restrain any person or government unit from
violating any provision of this chapter and to cause such violation to be
prevented, abated, or removed. Such action may also be instituted by any
property owner who is adversely affected by the violation of any provision of
this chapter.
   (E)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall subject the
violating party or parties to injunction and damages, including fines, cost of
collection and attorney's fees. The violating party or parties shall also be
liable for all costs of cleanup and remediation.
   (G)   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (H)   Any person or party aggrieved by a decision under this chapter shall
be entitled to judicial review.
(BC Ord. 2018-004, passed 4-3-18)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
V.   EASEMENTS
      
VI.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
                            Granting a franchise, contract and grant relating
BC Ord. -       2-2-81      to cable television service to Dearborn
                            Cablevision, Inc.
                            Granting a franchise, contract and grant relating
BC Ord. -       5-18-81     to cable television service to Dearborn
                            Cablevision, Inc.
                            Granting a non-exclusive franchise to Comark Cable
BC Ord. -       - -83       Fund III for a period of 15 years for cable
                            television system
                            Granting a non-exclusive franchise to Comark Cable
BC Ord. 84-1    2-7-84      Fund III for a cable television and communications
                            system around Moores Hill
BC Ord. 1985-2  2-19-85     Amending franchise Ord. 84-1
                            Granting a franchise, contract and grant relating
BC Ord.         3-4-96      to cable television service in the county to
                            Fairbanks Communications, Inc.
BC Res. 2006-01 1-17-06     Consent to assignment of cable television
                            franchise.
                           
 
TABLE II: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.                       Date Passed Description
                                           Joint resolution to designate a
                              6-4-84      single agency for building
                                           regulation between the county and
                                           the Town of St. Leon
                                           Joint resolution to designate a
                              12-17-85    single agency for building
                                           regulation between the county and
                                           the Town of Moores Hill
                                           Joint resolution to designate a
                              8-15-88     single agency for building
                                           regulation between the county and
                                           the Town of West Harrison
                                           Interlocal agreement for additional
                              2-18-97     police protection between the county
                                           and the City of Harrison
                                           Joint resolution to designate a
                              7-19-99     single agency for building
                                           regulation between the county and
                                           the City of Aurora
                                           Interlocal agreement between
BC Res. 2                      9-20-04     Dearborn County and the City of
                                           Lawrenceburg concerning Federal 2000
                                           Warning Siren.
BC Res. 2010-4                 12-21-10    Requesting amendment to OKI Regional
                                           Water Quality Management Plan.
BC Res. 2011-003               4-5-11      Authorizing entry into Interlocal
                                           Agreement for investment of funds.
BC Res. 2011-009               8-2-11      Requesting amendment to OKI Regional
                                           Water Quality Management Plan.
                                           Interlocal agreement between the
                                           City of Lawrenceburg and the County
                                           of Dearborn, for the disbursement of
BC Res. 2012-003               7-17-12     the funds associated with the
                                           Hardintown Community water supply
                                           project as granted by the Regional
                                           Economic Grant Program so that work
                                           may commence on said project.
                                           Interlocal agreement between the
                                           City of Greendale and the County of
                                           Dearborn, authorizing Hardintown
BC Res. 2012-004               7-17-12     Community to tap into the Greendale
                                           water supply so that work may
                                           commence on the Hardintown water
                                           supply project.
                                           Interlocal agreement with the City
BC Res. 2013-003               6-18-13     of Lawrenceburg for provision of
                                           emergency medical services.
BC Res. 2014-003               3-4-14      Interlocal agreement with the City
                                           of Lawrenceburg for EMS services.
                                           Interlocal agreement for the Ridge
BC Res. 2014-004               3-18-14     Avenue Alternatives Evaluation
                                           Study.
                                           Interlocal agreement with the Towns
                                           of Dillsboro, Moores Hill, St. Leon
BC Res. 2014-008               9-2-14      and West Harrison and the Cities of
                                           Aurora and Lawrenceburg for animal
                                           control enforcement.
                                           Interlocal agreement with the city
BC Res. 2015-003               2-17-15     of Lawrenceburg for emergency
                                           medical services.
                                           Interlocal agreement with the cities
                                           of Aurora, Greendale, and
BC Res. 2015-004               3-17-15     Lawrenceburg to enter into a
                                           contract with Spillman Technologies,
                                           Inc., for the provision of public
                                           safety computer software.
                                           Interlocal agreement with the city
BC Res. 2015-005               4-7-15      of Lawrenceburg for the provision of
                                           911 dispatch services.
                                           Interlocal agreement with the town
BC Res. 2015-006               6-2-15      of Dillsboro for the provision of
                                           911 dispatch services.
                                           Interlocal agreement with the city
BC Res. 2015-007               6-2-15      of Aurora for Dearborn Counting
                                           Planning and Zoning Department
                                           services.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
                                           into local agreements with the
                                           cities of Aurora and Lawrenceburg,
BC Res. 2016-005               4-5-16      and the towns of Dillsboro, Moores
                                           Hill, St. Leon and West Harrison for
                                           the provision of 911 dispatch
                                           services.
                                           Joint ordinance with the cities of
                                           Aurora, Greendale and Lawrenceburg
2016-009                       10-4-16     to amend and re-establish the
                                           Southeast Indiana Regional Port
                                           Authority.
                                           Authorizing and approving entry into
BC Res. 2017-007               12-19-17    an interlocal agreement for 911
                                           dispatch services.
                                           Authorizing and approving entry into
CC Res. 2019-007               11-26-19    an interlocal agreement with Ohio
                                           County, Indiana to allow a transfer
                                           of grant funds.
                                           Authorizing and approving entry into
BC Res. 2019-011               12-3-19     an interlocal agreement with Ohio
                                           County, Indiana to allow a transfer
                                           of grant funds.
                                           Joint resolutions of the Dearborn
                                           County Council and County
                                           Commissioners and the Dearborn
                                           County Hospital Board Trustees
                                           entering into an agreement with
                              10-26-20    Saint Elizabeth Medical Center
                                           through which St. Elizabeth will
                                           acquire substantially all of the
                                           assets and liabilities of the County
                                           Hospital and operate the hospital
                                           and related assets.
                                           Authorizing and approving entry into
BC Res. 2020-008               11-17-20    an interlocal agreement regarding
                                           ordinance violations.
                                           Authorizing and approving entry into
CC Res. 2020-016               11-17-20    an interlocal agreement regarding
                                           ordinance violations.
                                           Designating Dearborn County Building
Lawrenceburg City Council Res. 5-3-21      Department and Building Inspector to
2021-2                                     enforce building codes and standards
                                           in the City of Lawrenceburg.
                                           Establishing an interlocal agreement
- -                            4-22-22     between the County of Dearborn,
                                           Indiana and the County of Ohio,
                                           Indiana.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
                                           into an interlocal cooperation
CC Res. 2022-003               11-16-22    agreement between the Cities of
                                           Aurora, Greendale, and Lawrenceburg
                                           as outlined in said agreement.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
                                           into an interlocal agreement for the
                                           joint exercise of the power to allow
CC Res. 2022-004               11-16-22    the County Sheriff to assist the
                                           Towns of Dearborn County with
                                           evidence related matters as outlined
                                           in said agreement.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
                                           into an interlocal agreement for the
                                           joint exercise of power to allow the
BC Res. 2022-007               11-15-22    Dearborn County Sheriff to assist
                                           the Towns of Dearborn County with
                                           evidence related matters as outlined
                                           in said agreement.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
                                           into an interlocal agreement for the
BC Res. 2022-008               11-15-22    joint exercise of power between the
                                           Cities of Aurora, Greendale, and
                                           Lawrenceburg as outlined in said
                                           agreement.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
                                           into an interlocal cooperation
BC Res. 2023-001               1-17-23     agreement with the cities and towns
                                           fo the county for the enforcement of
                                           zoning subdivision control ordinance
                                           compliance investigations.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
                                           into an interlocal agreement for the
BC Res. 2023-002               1-17-23     joint exercise of power with Ohio
                                           County to receive and distribute
                                           COVID-19 grant funds from the state.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
                                           into an interlocal agreement for the
CC Res. 2023-001               1-26-23     joint exercise of power with Ohio
                                           County to receive and distribute
                                           COVID-19 grant funds from the state.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
                                           into an interlocal cooperation
CC Res. 2023-003               5-23-23     agreement with the Dearborn County
                                           Regional Sewer District to disburse
                                           funds for the retention of outside
                                           legal counsel.
                                           Authorizing and approving entry into
CC Res. 2023-003A              9-15-23     an interlocal agreement for 911
                                           dispatching.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
                                           into an interlocal agreement with
CC Res. 2023-004               11-14-23    Ohio County regarding employment
                                           benefits for the Seventh Judicial
                                           Circuit.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
                                           into an interlocal cooperation
BC Res. 2023-006               5-16-23     agreement with the Dearborn County
                                           Regional Sewer District to disburse
                                           funds to assist with retention of
                                           outside legal council.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
BC Res. 2023-009               9-5-23      into an interlocal agreement for 911
                                           dispatching.
                                           Authorizing and approving the entry
                                           into an interlocal cooperation
BC Res. 2023-12                11-8-23     agreement with Ohio County regarding
                                           the employees of the Seventh
                                           Judicial Circuit.
                                          
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.        Date Passed Description
BC 5-1996       6-17-96     Vacating part of platted La Fayette Street, plat of
                            Morgantown, Jackson Township.
BC 14-1997      8-18-97     Vacating a certain public way in York Township,
                            being part of old Cook Road.
BC 9-2004       10-4-04     Vacating certain streets in Section 2, Township 5,
                            Range 1 in Lawrenceburg Township.
                            Vacating the remaining right-of-way of certain real
BC 2005-3       3-15-05     estate located in Section 2, Township 5 North,
                            Range 1 West, in Lawrenceburg Township.
                            Vacating the right-of-way of certain real estate
BC 2008-14      6-17-08     located in Section 4, Township 5 North, Range 3
                            West, in Clay Township.
BC 2008-15      6-17-08     Vacating certain real estate located in Section 9,
                            Township 7 North, Range 2 West, in Kelso Township.
                            Vacating certain real estate located in Section 13,
BC 2008-19      9-2-08      Township 8 North, Range 3 West, in Jackson
                            Township.
                            Vacating certain rights-of-way located in Section
BC Res. 11-2009 11-17-09    25, Township 6, Range 3, Sparta Township,
                            consisting of .288 acres.
                            Vacating part of Sutton Avenue from its
                            intersection with York Avenue East to the boundary
                            of the City of Aurora; Stedman Avenue from a point
                            25 feet east of its intersection with Siemantel
BC 2010-4       9-7-10      Avenue to the City of Aurora city boundary; Stedman
                            Avenue from a point 25 feet west of its
                            intersection from Siemantel Avenue; the unimproved
                            part of York Avenue as platted that lies west of
                            its intersection with street which has become
                            Langley Height Road.
                            Vacating streets and alley laid out and platted in
BC 2010-011     12-7-10     Langley Heights Subdivision, being portions of
                            Sutton Avenue, Stedman Avenue, unimproved part of
                            York Avenue, Chambers Avenue and Cobb Avenue.
BC 2011-01      1-18-11     Vacating part of Willoughby Road.
BC 2011-012     11-1-11     Vacating parts of West Street in the Town of
                            Hardinsburgh.
BC 2011-016     11-15-11    Vacating Candlewood Court in Kelso Township.
                            Vacating two unnamed alleyways located in the
BC 2014-012     10-7-14     platted Town of Wilmington; denying vacation
                            request for Water Street in Hogan Township.
BC 2015-004     3-17-15     Vacating La Fayette Street, in the town of
                            Morgantown, Jackson Township.
BC 2016-010     11-1-16     Vacating a portion of Bell Arbor Road in Harrison
                            Township.
BC 2017-001     2-21-17     Vacating certain unmaintained roads located in
                            Hardinsburgh in Lawrenceburg Township.
BC 2017-007     8-1-17      Vacating a portion of Happy Hollow Road located in
                            York and Jackson Townships.
BC 2018-009     9-18-18     Vacating certain unmaintained roads located in the
                            Town of Hardinsburgh in Lawrenceburg Township.
BC 2021-007     7-6-21      Vacating certain rights-of-way in the Bunkum Woods
                            and Hickory Hills Subdivisions.
BC 2022-018  12-20-22    Vacating certain rights-of-way located in York
                            Township.
                           
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date   Description
          Passed
BC 6-1997 4-21-  Amending the zoning map with 25 changes dating from 3-16-87 to 12-30-96.
          97
                 Rezoning the following described real estate, a part of Section 3, Township
BC 10-    6-2-97 5 North, Range 1 West, being part of Lot 4 of the division of real estate of
1997             Jacob Hayes, of the First Principal Meridian from Agricultural (A) to
                 Residential (R).
                 Rezoning the following described real estate, a part of Lot 3 of the Jacob
BC 12-    7-7-97 Hayes Estate (D.R. 36, P. 63) located in the Northeast Quarter of Section 3,
1997             Township 5 North, Range 1 West of the First Principal Meridian from
                 Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
                 Rezoning the following described real estate, a part of the Southeast
BC 19-    12-1-  Quarter of Section 34 and part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 35,
1997      97     Township 1 West of the First Principal Meridian located in Harrison Township
                 from Restricted Business (B1) and Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
                 Rezoning the following described real estate, a part of the Northeast
BC 23-    12-29- Quarter of Section 10, Township 5 North, Range 3 West of the First Principal
1997      97     Meridian located in Clay Township from Business (B-1) to Manufacturing (M-
                 1).
                 Rezoning the following described real estate, a part of the Northeast
BC 24-    12-29- Quarter of Section 10, Township 5 North, Range 3 West of the First Principal
1997      97     Meridian located in Clay Township from Business (B-1) to Manufacturing (M-
                 1).
                 Rezoning the following described real estate, a part of Northeast Quarter of
BC 3-1998 3-2-98 Section 28, Township 7 North, Range 1 West of the First Principal Meridian
                 located in Logan Township from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
                 Rezoning the following described real estate, a part of the Northwest
BC 4-1998 3-2-98 Quarter of Section 28, Township 7 North, Range 1 West of the First Principal
                 Meridian located in Logan Township from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
BC 17-    11-2-  Rezoning the following described real estate, part of the Southwest quarter
1998      98     of Section 10, T7N, R2W, Kelso Township from Agricultural (A) to Residential
                 (R).
BC 21-    12-28- Rezoning part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 29, Township 6 North,
1998      98     Range 2 West from B1 to Duplex Residential.
BC 2      9-7-99 Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 13, Township 6, Range 1 West
                 from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
BC 4-2000 4-3-00 Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 16, Township 5, Range 1 West
                 from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
BC 2000-7 6-5-00 Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 20 and 29, Township 7, Range
                 1 West from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
BC 2000-8 7-19-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 4, Township 5, Range 3 West
          00     from Residential (R) to General Business (B-2).
BC 2001-3 6-20-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 14, Township 7, Range 2 West
          01     from Highway Interchange (H-I) to Agricultural (A).
BC 2001-4 8-6-01 Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 34, Township 1, Range 1 West
                 from Restricted Business (B-1) to General Business (G-2).
BC 2001-8 10-1-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 35, Township 7, Range 1 West
          01     from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
BC 2002-5 9-3-02 Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 35, Township 7, Range 1 West
                 from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
                 Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 16, Township 7, Range 1 West
BC 2003-4 1-24-  from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R), with a reversion to Agricultural
          03     (A) in the event that no subdivision on the property is approved within two
                 years of the date of rezoning.
BC 2003-6 1-24-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 35, Township 7, Range 1 West
          03     from Restricted Business (B-1) and Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
                 Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 3 and 10, Township 12, Range
BC 2003-9 7-7-03 3 West, Sparta Township from Residential (R) to Restricted Business (B-1) to
                 allow for the location of a bank.
BC 2003-         Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 7, Sheet 2 of Clay Township,
10        7-7-03 Parcel 008 to its original designation of part Agricultural (A) and part
                 Residential (R), subject to any conditions imposed by the Plan Commission.
BC 2003-  7-7-03 Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 13, Township 8, Range 3
11               West, Jackson Township from Agricultural (A) to General Business (B-2).
BC 2003-  7-7-03 Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 29, Township 7, Range 1
12               West, Logan Township from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
BC 2003-  7-21-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 16, Township 5, Range 1
13        03     West, Lawrenceburg Township from Agricultural (A) to Residential with a
                 development plan (RDP).
BC 2003-  7-21-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 14, Township 6, Range 3
14        03     West, Sparta Township from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
BC 7-2004 9-20-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 20, Township 7 North, Range
          04     1 West, Logan Township from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
                 Rezoning certain real estate located in Sections 8 and 9, Township 7, Range
BC 2005-1 3-1-05 1, Logan Township, from Agricultural (A) to Residential with a development
                 plan (RDP).
BC 2005-2 3-1-05 Rezoning certain real estate located in Sections 28 and 29, Township 7,
                 Range 1, Logan Township, from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
          4-19-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 15, Township 7 North, Range
BC 2005-4 05     2 West, Kelso Township, from Agricultural (A) to Residential with a
                 development plan (RDP).
BC 2005-5 6-7-05 Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 14, Township 7 North, Range
                 3 West, Kelso Township, from Agricultural (A) to Highway Interchange (H-1).
                 Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 29, Township 7 North, Range
BC 2005-7 5-3-05 1 West, Logan Township, from Agricultural (A) to Restricted Business Intent
                 (B-1).
          11-8-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 27, Township 6 North, Range
BC 2006-7 06     1 West, Miller Township, consisting of approximately 127.172 acres, from
                 Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
          11-8-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 1, Township 5 North, Range 2
BC 2006-8 06     West, Manchester Township, consisting of approximately 174 acres, from
                 Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
          11-8-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 34, Township 7 North, Range
BC 2006-9 06     1 West, Logan Township, consisting of approximately 108 acres, from
                 Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
BC 2006-  11-8-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 29, Township 7 North, Range
10        06     1 West, Logan Township, consisting of approximately 2,396 acres, from
                 Agricultural (A) to Restricted Business (B-1).
          9-18-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 29, Township 7 North, Range
BC 2007-9 07     1 West, Logan Township, consisting of approximately 4 acres, from
                 Agricultural (A) to Restricted Business (B-1).
BC 2007-  12-18- Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 20, Township 7 North, Range
14        07     1 West, Logan Township, consisting of approximately 56 acres, from
                 Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
BC 2008-  6-17-  Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 12, Township 4 North, Range
16        08     2 West, Washington Township, consisting of approximately 9.3 acres, from
                 Residential (R) to Manufacturing (M-1).
                 Rezoning certain real estate located in Section 11, Township 7 North, Range
BC 4-2009 4-7-09 1 West, Harrison Township consisting of 82 acres, from Agricultural/Highway
                 Exchange to Manufacturing Class 2.
                 Rezoning certain real estate located in the Northwest Quarter of Section 9
BC 9-2009 4-21-  and the Northeast Quarter of Section 8, Township 5 North, Range 1 West,
          09     Dearborn County consisting of 71.47 acres, from Agricultural (A) to
                 Restricted Business (B-1).
BC 13-    12-15- Rezoning certain real estate located in the Northwest Quarter of Section 21,
2009      09     Township 5 North, Range 1 West, Lawrenceburg Township consisting of
                 approximately 16 acres, from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
BC 2010-  10-19- Rezoning property containing approximately 1.263 acres in Section35,
08        10     Township 7 North, Range 1 West in Harrison Township from Agricultural A to
                 Restricted Business (B-1).
BC Res.   2-1-11 Approving new county zoning map.
2011-1
BC 2012-  4-17-  Rezoning property containing approximately 23.587 acres in Township 7, Range
009       12     1, Section 13 in Harrison Township from Agricultural (A) and General
                 Business (B-2) to Manufacturing Class 2 (M-2).
BC 2012-  12-18- Rezoning Parcel #15-01-11-300-006.008-006, from Manufacturing Class 2 (M-2)
024       12     to Highway Interchange (H-1).
BC 2013-  1-15-  Amending Ord. 2003-13 to correct scrivener’s error in legal description of
003       13     rezoned property.
BC 2014-  8-19-  Rezoning parcels outlined in Exhibit A from Manufacturing Three (M-3) to
008       14     Agricultural (A).
BC 2014-  10-7-  Rezoning various parcels in Miller Township.
011       14
BC 2015-         Rezoning approximately 2.35 acres located in Township 7 North, Range 1 West,
008       7-7-15 Section 10 in Harrison Township from Residential (R) to Highway Interchange
                 (H-1).
BC 2015-  9-15-  Rezoning approximately 12.11 acres located in Township 7 North, Range 2
011       15     West, Section 23 in Kelso Township from Agricultural (A) and Restricted
                 Business (B-1) to General Business (B-2).
BC 2015-  10-6-  Rezoning approximately 65.30 acres located in Township 7 North, Range 1West,
012       15     Sections 10 and 15 in Harrison Township from Agricultural (A) and General
                 Business (B-2) to Manufacturing Two (M-2).
BC 2017-  3-21-  Rezoning 14.875 acres of Parcel #15-01-04-400-008.000-006 located in
002       17     Township 7, Range 1, Section 4 in Harrison Township from Agricultural (A) to
                 Highway Interchange (H-1).
BC 2017-  10-3-  Rezoning certain real estate from Highway Interchange (H-1) to Community
013       17     Business (B-2).
BC 2018-         Rezoning 347.676 acres of land located in Sections 1 and 12, Township 5
002       2-6-18 north, Range 1 west, in Lawrenceburg Township currently zoned as Heavy
                 Industrial (I-3) to Agricultural (A).
BC 2018-  4-17-  Rezoning 11.024 acres of Parcel #15-01-29-400-026.000-018 located in
007       18     Township 7 north, Range 1 west, Section 29 in Logan Township and contains in
                 36.945 acres of land from Agricultural (A) to Residential (R).
                 Rezoning 7.57 acres of Parcel #15-08-25- 400-082.000-008 and Parcel #15-08-
BC 2019-  4-16-  25-800-016.001-008 located in Township 5 north, Range 2 west, Section 25 in
004       19     Hogan Township from Residential (R) to Community Business - Development Plan
                 (B-2 DP).
BC 2022-         Rezoning approximately 3.128 acres of Parcel #15-01-34-104-008.000-006
006       5-4-22 located in Section 34, Township 7 North, Range 1 West of Harrison Township
                 from Residential (R) to Local Business (B-1).
BC 2022-  12-20- Rezoning approximately 33.24 acres of Parcels #15-02-33-700-116.000-010 and
019       22     15-02-33-700-113.000-010 located in Section 33, Township 7, Range 2 of Kelso
                 Township from Moderate Industrial (I-2) to Agriculture (A).
BC 2023-  6-20-  Rezoning approximately 3.00 acres of Parcel #15-02-400-017.003-010 in
006    23     Section 14, Township 7 North, Range 2 West of Kelso Township from
                 Agriculture (A) to Local Business (B-1).
BC 2023-  7-18-  Rezoning approximately 3.88 acres of Parcels #15-01-34-104-007.001-006 and
007       23     15-01-34-104-010.000-006 in Section 34, Township 7 North, Range 1 West of
                 Harrison Township from Residential (R) to Local Business (B-1).
                
 
TABLE V: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No.         Date Passed Description
CC Res. 3-1999   6-22-99     Accepting the necessary land and easement for the
                             expansion of State Route 48.
                             Executing assignment of right-of-way from Cole
BC Res. 2010-2   7-6-10      Lane to the public launch ramp to State of Indiana
                             Department of Natural Resources.
BC 2011-007      6-21-11     Declaring an apparent right-of-way for Nolte Road.
                             Identifying certain areas of the county as areas
BC Res. 2017-002 4-28-17     designated strictly for underground or buried
                             utilities.
                            
 
TABLE VI: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.         Date Passed Description
CC Res. 1-2001   4-24-01     Designating a portion of the county an economic
                             revitalization area.
CC Res. 2-2001   5-22-01     Ratifying, approving and confirming Res. 1-2001.
BC Res. 4-2006   3-21-06     Designating St. Leon Economic Development Area.
BC Res. 5-2006   3-21-06     Designating West Aurora Economic Development Area.
BC Res. 6-2006   3-21-06     Designating West Harrison Expanded Economic
                             Development Area.
BC Res. 2013-004 9-17-13     Approving certain amendments to the plan for the
                             West Harrison Expanded Economic Development Area.
BC Res. 2013-005 9-17-13     Approving economic development agreement with
                             Whitewater Mill, Inc.
BC Res. 2016-002 1-19-16     Approving amendments to the plan for the West
                             Harrison Expanded Economic Development Area.
BC Res. 2017-001 3-28-17     Approving amendments to the plan for the West
                             Aurora Economic Development Area.
BC Res. 2017-003 9-5-17      Approving a land purchase in the West Harrison
                             Expanded Economic Development Area.
BC Res. 2017-004 10-3-17     Approving amendments to the plan for the St. Leon
                             Economic Development Area.
BC Res. 2017-005 10-3-17     Approving amendments to the plan for the West
                             Aurora Economic Development Area.
BC Res. 2017-006 10-3-17     Approving amendments to the plan for the West
                             Harrison Economic Development Area.
BC Res. 2020-009 12-1-20     Approving amendments of the plan for the West
                             Aurora Expanded Economic Development Area.
CC Res. 2021-002 1-26-21     Establishing the West Harrison Economic
                             Revitalization Area.
CC Res. 2021-003 2-23-21     Ratifying final action establishing the West
                             Harrison Economic Revitalization Area.
                             Approving amendment of the boundaries of the West
BC Res. 2021-007 11-2-21     Harrison Expanded Economic Development Area and
                             amendment to economic development plan.
                            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Board of Commissioners Ordinances
References to County Council Ordinances
References to Board of Commissioners Resolutions
References to County Council Resolutions
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
Indiana Code Section Code Section
Indiana Code Section                       Code Section
1-1-1-5                                    10.04
1-1-1-7                                    10.12
1-1-1-8                                    10.06
1-1-4-5                                    10.05
1-1-5-1                                    10.11
1-1-6-1                                    10.08
1-1-9                                      37.11
3                                          33.11
3-5-2-40.1                                 33.11
3-9                                        34.32
3-9-4-17                                   34.32
4-21.5-1-9                                 110.61
4-21.5-3-7                                 150.19
4-22-2                                     39.35
4-33-2-6                                   38.01
4-33-12-6                                  38.02
5                                          37.12
5-3-1                                      30.03
5-3-1 et seq.                              32.025
5-3-1-4                                    30.16
5-3-5                                      30.03
5-4-1-18                                   33.05
5-4-1-18(a)                                33.05
5-4-1-18(b)                                33.05
5-4-1-18(c)                                33.05
5-4-1-18(d)                                33.05
5-11-1-27                                  10.17
5-13-1 et seq.                             34.04
5-13-7-6                                   37.16
5-13-9                                     37.16
5-13-9-2                                   37.16
5-13-9-2.5                                 37.16
5-13-9-3                                   37.16
5-13-9-4                                   37.16
5-13-9-5                                   37.15,
                                           37.16
5-13-9-5.3                                 37.15,
                                           37.16
5-13-9-5.6                                 37.16
5-13-9-5.7                                 37.15,
                                           37.16
5-13-9-11                                  37.16
5-14-1.5                                   30.16
5-14-1.5 et seq.                           36.16
5-14-1.5-1 et seq.                         32.025
5-14-1.5-5                                 30.02,
                                           30.16
5-14-1.5-5(d)                              36.36,
                                           36.37
5-14-3-1 et seq.                           32.025
5-14-3-8(j)                                34.23
5-22                                       32.110
5-22-22 et seq.                            37.23
5-28-28.5-0.5                              97.02
5-28-28.5-2                                97.02
5-28-28.5-3                                97.02
5-28-28.5-7                                97.02
6-1.1-12.5-4                               35.03
6-1.1-17                                   30.16,
                                           34.20
6-1.1-18.5                                 38.01
6-1.1-22-9                                 35.02
6-1.1-24                                   154.05
6-1.1-41 et seq.                           34.02,
                                           34.21
6-2.1-3-20—6-2.1-3-22 (Repealed)         110.63
6-2.5                                      35.01
6-3.6-9-15                                 34.20
6-3.6-9-17                                 34.26
6-9-18-3                                   32.020
6-9-18-4(a)                                32.024
6-9-18-4(b)                                32.024
6-9-18-5(b)                                32.020
6-9-18-5(c)                                32.020
6-9-18-6(a)                                32.024
6-9-18-8                                   32.026
8-1-32.5-3                                 97.02
8-17-1-40                                  70.09
8-22-2                                     34.26
8-22-3-1                                   34.26
8-23-5                                     34.26
8-23-30                                    34.26
Title 9                                    70.08
9-13-2-6                                   70.09
9-13-2-73                                  70.09
9-21-1-2(a)                                70.09
9-21-1-2(b)                                70.09
9-21-1-3(a)(8)                             70.09
9-21-1-3(b)                                70.09
9-21-1-7                                   70.09
9-25-4                                     70.08
9-29-4-2 (Repealed)                        31.01
10-14-3                                    36.18,
                                           36.41
10-14-3-1                                  36.02
10-14-3-2                                  36.02
10-14-3-12                                 36.35
10-14-3-17                                 36.02,
                                           36.04
10-14-3-17(c)                              36.15
10-14-3-17(d)                              36.16
10-14-3-17(d)(2)(A)                        36.17
10-14-3-17(d)(2)(B)                        36.18
                                           36.02,
10-14-3-17(h)                              36.20,
                                           36.22
10-14-3-17(I)                              36.20
10-14-3-17(j)(5)                           36.38
10-14-3-22                                 36.04,
                                           36.38
10-14-3-24                                 36.38
10-14-3-27                                 36.02
10-14-3-27(a)                              36.19
10-14-3-27(b)                              36.19
10-14-3-29                                 96.01
10-14-3-29(a)                              36.35,
                                           36.36
10-14-3-31                                 36.38,
                                           36.42
10-14-3-31(e)                              36.42
10-19-2-1                                  36.02
11-8-8-21                                  31.03
11-12                                      39.01
11-12-1-2                                  39.03
11-12-1-3                                  39.36
11-12-1-4                                  39.05
                                           39.02,
11-12-2                                    39.16,
                                           39.23,
                                           39.24
11-12-2 et seq.                            39.01
11-12-2-1                                  39.36
11-12-2-2                                  39.15
11-12-2-2(d)                               39.16
11-12-2-4                                  39.20
                                           39.20,
11-12-2-5                                  39.22,
                                           39.23
11-12-2-5(b)(3)                            39.35
11-12-2-12                                 39.35
11-12-2--12(b)                             39.35
11-12-2-12(c)                              39.35
11-12-3.7                                  39.20
11-12-6-1.1 et seq.(Repealed)              34.11
11-12-6 (Repealed)                         39.37
11-12-7                                    39.36
12-20-15 et seq.                           37.11
13-11-2-0.1 - 13-11-2-270                  51.03
13-11-2-158(a)                             50.56
13-11-2-199.5                              51.07
13-21-3                                    50.03
13-22                                      30.03
13-24                                      30.03
13-25-4                                    30.03
13-25-5                                    30.03
13-25-5-8.5(f)                             30.03
13-26                                      51.15,
                                           51.22
14-8-2-5.7                                 70.04
14-8-2-185                                 70.04
14-8-2-233.5                               70.04,
                                           70.07
14-16-1 et seq.                            70.07
14-16-1                                    70.04,
                                           70.07
14-16-1-20                                 70.04,
                                           70.07
14-16-1-20(c)                              70.04,
                                           70.07
14-16-1-23                                 70.04,
                                           70.07
14-28-1                                    152.53
14-28-1-26                                 152.53
14-32 et seq.                              94.01
15-2.1-16                                  70.02
16-18-2-0.5 - 16-18-2-379                  51.03
16-18-2-211                                51.60
16-20                                      51.15,
                                           51.22
16-20-1-10                                 110.66
16-20-1-25                                 110.65
16-20-1-25(c)                              110.65
16-20-1-26                                 110.64
                                           32.040,
16-20-1-27                                 110.42,
                                           110.63
16-20-8-5                                  110.64
16-20-8-6                                  110.64
16-22-3-18(e)(1)                           34.29
16-37-1-9(c)                               32.040
16-37-1-9(d)                               32.040
16-42-1                                    110.60
16-42-1-6                                  110.62
16-42-1-13                                 110.64
16-42-2                                    110.60
16-42-5                                    110.60
16-42-5-4                                  110.63
16-42-5-23                                 110.64
16-42-5-28(g)                              110.65
22-9.5-1 et seq.                           95.01
22-9.5-2-2                                 95.02
22-9.5-2-3                                 95.02
22-9.5-2-4                                 95.02
22-9.5-2-8                                 95.02
22-9.5-2-9                                 95.02
22-9.5-2-11                                95.02
22-9.5-2-13                                95.02
22-9.5-3                                   95.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.                           95.10
22-9.5-4-1                                 95.02
22-9.5-4-8                                 95.11
22-9.5-5                                   95.02
22-9.5-5-1                                 95.03
22-9.5-6                                   95.02,
                                           95.11
22-11-14-1                                 96.01
22-11-14-10.5                              96.01
22-12                                      150.19
22-12-1-4                                  150.03
22-12-1-5                                  150.03
22-12-1-7                                  150.03
22-12-1-14                                 150.03
22-12-1-16                                 150.03
22-12-1-17                                 150.03
22-12-1-18                                 150.03
22-12-1-22(b)(12)                          150.21
22-12-1-24                                 150.03
22-12-1-26                                 150.03
22-12-7                                    150.05
22-13                                      150.19
22-13-2-3(b)                               150.20
22-13-2-5                                  150.22
22-13-2-6                                  150.04
22-13-2-7                                  150.19
22-13-2-7(b)                               150.20
22-13-2-9                                  150.04
22-13-2-11                                 150.05
22-14                                      150.19
22-15                                      150.19
22-15-3                                    150.09
22-15-4                                    150.04
23-14-68                                   32.133
23-24-67-2                                 32.133
31-36-3-4                                  32.040
31-36-3-4(b)                               32.040
31-36-3-4(c)                               32.040
32-24                                      36.42
32-25-2-9                                  150.03
33-6-3-1                                   110.65
33-19-6-1.5                                34.10
33-19-6-20                                 34.10
34-24-1                                    34.14
34-24-1-1(a) et seq.                       34.15
34-24-1-2 et seq.                          34.15
34-24-1-3 et seq.                          34.15
34-24-3-1                                  37.21
34-28-5                                    130.01
34-28-5-1                                  110.65
34-28-5-4                                  130.01
35-33-5-5(b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (i) 37.27
35-38-2-1                                  39.35
35-38-2.5-6                                39.35
35-38-2.5-8                                39.36
35-43-4-4(h)                               37.27
35-43-5-5 (Repealed)                       37.21
35-43-5-5(e) (Repealed)                    37.21
35-44.1-1-4                                32.025
35-46-3-0.5(1)                             90.37
35-47-14                                   37.27
35-47-14-1                                 37.27
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                            10.99
36-1-4-11                                  94.01
36-1-5-4                                   150.20
36-1-6-4                                   150.17,
                                           153.02
36-1-6-9                                   150.19
36-1-7                                     37.16
36-1-8-5                                   34.20
36-1-20.2-1 et seq.                        32.025
36-1-20.2-8                                31.16
36-1-20.2-9                                31.16
36-1-27-1                                  150.23
36-1-27-4                                  150.23
36-2-2                                     36.02
36-2-2-2                                   30.01
36-2-2-6                                   30.01
                                           30.02,
36-2-2-8                                   36.36,
                                           36.37
36-2-3-2(a)                                30.15
36-2-3-3                                   30.15
36-2-3-6                                   30.15
36-2-3-7                                   30.15,
                                           30.16
36-2-3.5                                   30.16
36-2-3.5-4                                 30.04
36-2-3.5-5                                 30.17
36-2-4                                     30.17
36-2-4-2                                   30.03
36-2-4-3                                   30.03,
                                           36.02
36-2-4-5                                   30.03
36-2-4-6                                   30.03
36-2-4-7                                   30.03
36-2-4-8                                   30.03,
                                           30.04
36-2-4-9                                   30.03
36-2-5                                     30.04
36-2-5-2                                   34.15
36-2-5-3(a)                                36.19
36-2-6-3                                   30.05
36-2-7-10.1(k)                             37.29
36-2-14-22.3                               33.11
36-5-2-2                                   10.15
36-7                                       30.03
36-7-4 et seq.                             94.01
36-7-4-1012                                153.02
36-7-4-1109(b)                             150.23
36-7-8-3                                   150.22
36-7-8-9                                   150.19
36-7-12 et seq.                            32.035
36-7-12-1 et seq.                          32.036
36-7-18                                    32.065
36-7-18-7                                  32.065
36-7-18-8                                  32.065
36-8-3-20                                  31.02
36-8-10-3                                  31.16
36-8-10-3(b)                               31.16,
                                           31.17
36-8-10-3(d)                               31.16 -
                                           31.18
36-8-10-4(b)                               31.17
36-8-10-5                                  33.11
36-8-10-10(a)                              31.17
36-8-10-10(b)                              31.17
36-8-17                                    150.13
36-9-14                                    34.02
36-9-14.5                                  34.21
36-9-23                                    51.06
36-9-25                                    51.06
36-9-27.4-9                                37.18
36-9-27.4-10                               37.18
36-9-27.4-11                               37.18
36-9-28.7                                  37.17
36-9-28.7-8                                37.17
36-9-28.7-8(b)                             37.17
36-9-28.7-9(a)                             37.17
                                           32.080,
36-10-3                                    32.083,
                                           34.05
36-10-3-18(a)                              34.27
36-10-3-18(b)                              34.27
                                           
 
REFERENCES TO BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Code Section
-               - -         37.02
                            50.01,
                            50.04,
                            50.15 -
1-1971          2-15-71     50.18,
                            50.30 -
                            50.42,
                            50.99
12-1980         10-20-80    153.01
-               2-2-81      T.S.O. I
-               5-18-81     T.S.O. I
-               - -83       T.S.O. I
84-1            2-7-84      T.S.O. I
                            110.01 -
11-1984         12-18-84    110.06,
                            110.99
1985-2          2-19-85     T.S.O. I
2-1986          3-4-86      153.01
                            110.20 -
7-1986          8-19-86     110.27,
                            110.99
1-1987          1-6-87      33.03
2-1987          1-6-87      33.03
-               4-20-87     70.01,
                            70.99
13-1988         5-16-88     31.01
3-1989          7-3-89      33.02
7-1989          9-18-89     32.050 -
                            32.054
1-1990          1-16-90     153.01
3-1991          11-4-91     34.04
4-1991          11-4-91     34.03
10-1991         12-16-91    50.02,
                            50.99
5-1992          6-5-92      50.03
6-1992          11-2-92     150.25 -
                            150.34
3-1993          2-1-93      150.31
7-1993          5-3-93      153.01
6-1994          10-17-94    37.01
7-1994          10-17-94    153.01
1-1995          2-6-95      31.02
3-1995          - -95       91.01 -
                            91.05
5-1995          4-17-95     32.001 -
                            32.007
6-1995          4-17-95     91.15 -
                            91.18
7-1995          6-19-95     153.01
8               8-7-95      34.06
10-1995         - -95       153.01
-               3-4-96      T.S.O. I
3-1996          4-15-96     153.01
4-1996          4-15-96     153.01
5-1996          6-17-96     T.S.O. III
                            111.01,
                            111.02,
                            111.15 -
1996-8          8-19-96     111.25,
                            111.35 -
                            111.41,
                            111.98,
                            111.99
9-1996          8-19-96     153.01
                            70.99,
10-1996         8-19-96     Ch. 71, Schs. II,
                            III
1-1997          1-21-97     34.01
2-1997          1-27-97     153.01
-               2-18-97     T.S.O. II
4-1997          4-7-97      Ch. 71, Sch. I
5-1997          4-7-97      70.03,
                            70.99
6-1997          4-21-97     T.S.O. IV
                            32.003 -
8-1997          5-5-97      32.005,
                            32.007,
                            32.008
9-1997          6-2-97      150.45 -
                            150.50
10-1997         6-2-97      T.S.O. IV
11-1997         6-16-97     38.01
12-1997         7-7-97      T.S.O. IV
13-1997         8-4-97      34.07
14-1997         8-18-97     T.S.O. III
15-1997         8-18-97     37.03
16-1997         9-2-97      34.08
18-1997         11-17-97    153.01
19-1997         12-1-97     T.S.O. IV
20-1997         12-5-97     92.01 -
                            92.05
21-1997         12-15-97    37.04
22-1997         12-29-97    Adopting Ordinance
23-1997         12-29-97    T.S.O. IV
24-1997         12-29-97    T.S.O. IV
2-1998          2-22-98     34.01
3-1998          3-2-98      T.S.O. IV
4-1998          3-2-98      T.S.O. IV
6-1998          3-2-98      Adopting Ordinance
                            93.01—
7-1998          - -98       93.04,
                            93.99
8-1998          3-18-98     33.03
                            94.01—
9-1998          5-18-98     94.08,
                            94.98,
                            94.99
10-1998         6-25-98     32.110
11-1998         6-25-98     32.111
12-1998         6-25-98     32.112
13-1998         6-25-98     32.112
14-1998         6-25-98     32.112
15-1998         10-5-98     Ch. 71, Sch. I
17-1998         11-2-98     T.S.O. IV
21-1998         12-28-98    T.S.O. IV
22-1998         12-28-98    32.115,
                            32.116
1-1999          1-19-99     70.02,
                            70.03
2-1999          1-19-99     70.04
3-1999          1-19-99     70.02,
                            70.03
4-1999          2-1-99      34.01
2               9-7-99      T.S.O. IV
1-2000          3-23-00     34.13
3-2000          3-23-00     34.11
4-2000          4-3-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-5          5-15-00     Ch. 150, Appendix
6-2000          7-3-00      153.01
2000-7          6-5-00      T.S.O. IV
2000-8          7-19-00     T.S.O. IV
2000-9          9-18-00     31.15 -
                            31.19
2000-6-1        8-7-00      Ch. 150, Appendix
1-2001          3-5-01      34.11
2001-3          6-20-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-4          8-6-01      T.S.O. IV
5-2001          8-20-01     34.10
6-2001          8-20-01     34.10
2001-7          8-20-01     32.130 -
                            32.134
2001-8          10-1-01     T.S.O. IV
2001-15         11-5-01     37.05
2-2002          3-4-02      153.01
3-2002          3-18-02     50.55 -
                            50.60
2002-5          9-3-02      T.S.O. IV
2003-1          7-22-02     110.40 -
                            110.42
2003-4          1-24-03     T.S.O. IV
5-2003          4-7-03      153.01
2003-6          1-24-03     T.S.O. IV
7-2003          5-19-03     153.01
2003-9          7-7-03      T.S.O. IV
2003-10         7-7-03      T.S.O IV
2003-11         7-7-03      T.S.O IV
2003-12         7-7-03      T.S.O IV
2003-13         7-21-03     T.S.O IV
2003-14         7-21-03     T.S.O IV
15-2003         9-8-03      30.05
16-2003         9-15-03     30.05
18-2003         10-20-03    153.01
19-2003         11-3-03     33.07
1-2004          2-17-04     153.01
2-2004          2-17-04     110.60—
                            110.67
4-2004          4-19-04     153.01
5-2004          7-22-04     37.09
6-2004          8-2-04      37.10
7-2004          9-20-04     T.S.O. IV
8-2004          9-20-04     153.01
9-2004          10-4-04     T.S.O. III
10-2004         11-8-04     37.11
                            95.01—
11-2004         12-20-04    95.07,
                            95.10,
                            95.11
2005-1          3-1-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-2          3-1-05      T.S.O. IV
2005-3          3-15-05     T.S.O. III
2005-4          4-19-05     T.S.O. IV
2005-5          6-7-05      T.S.O. IV
                            94.01—
6-2005          6-7-05      94.08,
                            94.98,
                            94.99
2005-7          5-3-05      T.S.O. IV
                            152.01,
                            152.02,
                            152.03,
                            152.15—
                            152.23,
2005-8          5-3-05      152.35,
                            152.36,
                            152.37,
                            152.50—
                            152.56,152.65—
                            152.71,
                            152.99
2005-9          6-21-05     37.04,
                            91.30
2005-10         6-21-05     Ch. 150, Appendix
2005-12         8-2-05      Ch. 150, Appendix
13-2005         9-20-05     34.14
2006-2          4-4-06      70.07,
                            70.99
2006-3          7-18-06     70.05,
                            70.99
2006-4          8-1-06      153.01
2006-5          9-5-06      37.13
6-2006          7-5-06      150.01—
                            150.22
2006-7          11-8-06     T.S.O. IV
2006-8          11-8-06     T.S.O. IV
2006-9          11-8-06     T.S.O. IV
2006-10         11-8-06     T.S.O. IV
2006-11         11-8-06     37.13
2007-1          2-20-07     153.01
2007-2          6-5-07      153.01
2007-3          8-7-07      153.01
2007-4          8-7-07      153.01
5-2007          8-21-07     34.16
2007-6          9-4-07      153.01
2007-7          9-4-07      153.01
2007-8          9-4-07      153.01
2007-9          9-18-07     T.S.O. IV
2007-10         9-18-07     153.01
2007-11         9-18-07     34.16
2007-12         11-27-07    31.03
2007-13         12-18-07    153.01
2007-14         12-18-07    T.S.O. IV
2008-2          1-15-08     153.01
2008-3          1-15-08     153.01
2008-4          2-19-08     153.01
2008-5          2-19-08     153.01
2008-6          2-19-08     153.01
2008-7          2-19-08     153.01
2008-8          2-19-08     153.01
2008-9          2-19-08     153.01
2008-10         4-15-08     153.01
2008-11         4-15-08     153.01
2008-12         5-20-08     34.18
2008-13         6-17-08     32.40
2008-14         6-17-08     T.S.O. III
2008-15         6-17-08     T.S.O. III
2008-16         6-17-08     T.S.O. IV
17-2008         8-19-08     150.01—
                            150.22
2008-18         8-19-08     Chapter 150, Appendix
2008-19         9-2-08      T.S.O. III
2008-20         9-2-08      153.01
2008-21         9-2-08      153.01
2008-22         9-16-08     34.14
2008-23         10-7-08     153.01
2008-24         11-18-08    153.01
2008-25         11-18-08    153.01
2008-26         11-18-08    153.01
2008-27         11-18-08    153.01
2008-28         11-18-08    153.01
29-2008         11-18-08    31.30—
                            31.32
2008-30         11-25-08    31.04,
                            34.19
1-2009          2-17-09     153.01
2-2009          2-17-09     153.01
3-2009          2-17-09     153.01
4-2009          4-7-09      T.S.O. IV
5-2009          4-7-09      153.01
6-2009          4-7-09      153.01
7-2009          4-7-09      153.01
8-2009          4-7-09      153.01
9-2009          4-21-09     T.S.O. IV
10-2009         5-19-09     34.21
11-2009         12-15-09    153.01
12-2009         12-15-09    153.01
13-2009         12-15-09    T.S.O. IV
                            32.110,
01-2010         4-6-10      32.111,
                            32.112
02-2010         4-6-10      37.19
2010-4          9-7-10      T.S.O. III
2010-06         10-19-10    96.01
2010-07         11-3-10     91.40
2010-08         10-19-10    T.S.O. IV
2010-09         12-7-10     70.06
2010-10         12-7-10     37.20
2010-011        12-7-10     T.S.O. III
2010-012        12-7-10     70.99,
                            Ch. 71, Sch. III
2010-13         12-7-10     153.01
2011-01         1-18-11     T.S.O. III
2011-02         1-18-11     37.21
2011-3          2-15-11     130.01
2011-4          2-15-11     37.20
2011-005        4-19-11     32.110,
                            32.111, 32,112
2011-6          5-17-11     37.05
2011-007        6-21-11     T.S.O. V
2011-008        6-21-11     37.22
2011-09         8-16-11     34.23
2011-010        9-6-11      37.17
2011-011        9-6-11      37.18
2011-012        11-1-11     T.S.O. III
2011-013        11-1-11     30.30
2011-014        11-1-11     153.01
2011-015        11-15-11    37.01
2011-016        11-15-11    T.S.O. III
2011-017        11-15-11    153.01
2011-018        11-15-11    153.01
2011-019        11-15-11    153.01
2011-020        12-20-11    37.23
2012-003        2-7-12      153.01
2012-004        2-7-12      153.01
2012-005        2-7-12      153.01
2012-006        2-7-12      153.01
2012-007        2-7-12      153.01
-               4-17-12     Adopting Ordinance
2012-009        4-17-12     T.S.O. IV
2012-013        7-17-12     153.01
2012-014        7-17-12     153.01
2012-015        7-17-12     153.01
2012-016        7-17-12     153.01
2012-018        8-21-12     31.05
2012-019        8-21-12     37.25
2012-020        9-18-12     153.01
2012-021        9-18-12     153.01
2012-022        9-18-12     153.01
2012-023        9-18-12     153.01
2012-024        12-18-12    T.S.O. IV 
                            36.01 -
                            36.04,
                            36.15 -
2013-002        1-15-13     36.25,
                            36.35 -
                            36.42,
                            36.55,
                            36.56
2013-003        1-15-13     T.S.O. IV 
                            39.01 -
                            39.06,
2013-004        2-2-13      39.15 -
                            39.25,
                            39.35 -
                            39.37
2013-005        3-5-13      31.06
2013-006        4-2-13      153.01
2013-007        4-2-13      153.01
2013-008        4-2-13      153.01
2013-010        5-21-13     37.16
2013-011        5-21-13     37.15
2013-012        5-21-13     37.15
2013-013        7-2-13      153.01
2013-014        7-2-13      153.01
2013-015        8-6-13      34.24
2013-016        9-17-13     Chapter 150, Appendix
2013-017        9-17-13     32.020 -
                            32.027
2014-002        2-4-14      153.01
2014-003        2-18-14     154.01 -
                            154.17
2014-004        5-7-14      153.01
2014-005        5-7-14      32.040
                            90.01 -
                            90.04,
                            90.16 -
                            90.23,
                            90.34 -
2014-006        6-3-14      90.38,
                            90.49 -
                            90.54,
                            90.65 -
                            90.71,
                            90.99
2014-007        7-1-14      Adopting Ordinance
2014-008        8-19-14     T.S.O. IV
2014-009        9-16-14     153.01
2014-010        9-16-14     153.01
2014-011        10-7-14     T.S.O. IV
2014-012        10-7-14     T.S.O. III
2014-013        11-18-14    150.60 -
                            150.65
                            90.04,
2015-001        1-6-15      90.18,
                            90.66
2015-004        3-17-15     T.S.O. III
2015-005        4-7-15      153.01
2015-006        4-17-15     153.01
2015-007        5-6-15      37.27
2015-008        7-7-15      T.S.O. IV
2015-009        7-7-15      153.01
2015-010        7-7-15      153.01
2015-011        9-15-15     T.S.O. IV
2015-012        10-6-15     T.S.O. IV
                            70.04,
2015-014        12-15-15    70.07,
                            70.08,
                            70.99
2016-001        1-19-16     153.01
2016-002        5-4-16      10.17
2016-003        6-7-16      10.17
2016-004        6-7-16      34.25
2016-005        6-7-16      34.26
2016-006        6-21-16     10.18
2016-007        8-2-16      153.01
2016-008        9-6-16      37.29
2016-009        10-4-16     T.S.O. II
2016-010        11-1-16     T.S.O. III
2017-001        2-21-17     T.S.O. III
2017-002        3-21-17     T.S.O. IV
2017-003        6-6-17      153.01
2017-007        8-1-17      T.S.O. III
2017-008        8-15-17     153.01
2017-009        8-15-17     153.01
                            51.01 -
                            51.08,
                            51.15 -
                            51.22,
2017-010        9-19-17     51.35 -
                            51.38,
                            51.45,
                            51.60 -
                            51.62,
                            51.99
2017-011        9-19-17     153.01
2017-012        9-19-17     153.01
2017-013        10-3-17     T.S.O. IV
                            90.02,
                            90.17,
                            90.18,
2017-014        11-7-17     90.20,
                            90.65,
                            90.66,
                            90.99
2018-001        1-2-18      153.01
2018-002        2-6-18      T.S.O. IV
                            90.02,
2018-003        2-20-18     90.03,
                            90.17,
                            90.50
2018-004        4-3-18      155.01 -
                            155.07
2018-005        4-3-18      153.01
2018-006        4-3-18      153.01
2018-007        4-17-18     T.S.O. IV
2018-008        6-5-18      153.01
2018-009        9-18-18     T.S.O. III
2018-011        11-7-18     153.01
2019-001        3-5-19      153.01
2019-002        3-19-19     153.01
2019-003        4-16-19     34.27
2019-004        4-16-19     T.S.O. IV
2019-005        4-23-19     70.09,
                            70.99
2019-006        5-21-19     34.28
2019-007        6-18-19     153.01
2019-008        7-2-19      Adopting Ordinance
2019-010        8-6-19      150.23
2019-011        10-15-19    37.20
2019-012        10-15-19    153.01
2019-013        10-15-19    153.01
2019-014        10-15-19    153.01
2019-015        10-15-19    96.01
2019-016        10-15-19    34.23
2019-017        10-15-19    37.10
2019-018        10-15-19    95.01 -
                            95.12
2019-019        12-17-19    153.01
2019-020        12-17-19    153.01
2019-021        12-17-19    153.01
2019-022        12-17-19    153.01
2020-001        2-4-20      32.145 -
                            32.150
2020-002        2-18-20     153.01
2020-003        2-18-20     32.006
2020-004        3-17-20     153.01
2020-005        3-17-20     153.01
2020-006        3-17-20     34.30
2020-008        10-6-20     35.03
BC-DCC 2020-001 10-26-20    34.29
2021-001        2-2-21      32.020
2021-002        2-16-21     37.31
2021-003        4-6-21      34.21
2021-006        5-18-21     Adopting Ordinance
2021-007        7-6-21      T.S.O. III
2021-008        8-3-21      34.23
2021-009        8-17-21     153.02
2021-010        9-7-21      153.01
2021-011        11-16-21    30.30
2021-012        12-7-21     37.20
2022-001        1-18-22     34.31
2022-003        3-15-22     37.20
2022-004        3-15-22     34.32
2022-005        4-5-22      153.01
2022-007        6-7-22      51.63
2022-008        8-16-22     34.31
2022-013        9-6-22      37.20
2022-014        10-4-22     150.23
2022-015        11-1-22     153.01
                            90.02,
2022-016        11-1-22     90.35 -
                            90.38
2022-017        11-15-22    97.01 -
                            97.03
2023-001        1-17-23     153.01
2023-002        1-17-23     34.14
2023-003        4-4-23      34.21
2023-004        4-4-23      37.20
2023-005        4-18-23     70.05,
                            70.99
2023-006        6-20-23     T.S.O. IV
2023-007        7-18-23     T.S.O. IV
                            32.040,
2023-008        10-3-23     110.41,
                            110.42
2023-009        11-8-23     37.20
                           
 
 
REFERENCES TO COUNTY COUNCIL ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Code Section
1979-7          4-28-79     34.05
-               11-20-82    32.080 -
                            32.084
1-1995          4-18-95     35.01
3-1995          8-22-95     35.02
2-1997          6-12-97     32.035,
                            32.036
2-1998          1-6-98      33.04
5-1998          - -98       34.09
1-1999          1-5-99      33.05
1-2000          2-23-00     34.12
3-2000          9-12-00     31.15
4-2000          10-24-00    31.15
2001-1          4-24-01     37.06
4-2001          8-28-01     34.10
5-2001          8-28-01     34.10
2-2003          7-22-03     37.04
3-2003          9-9-03      37.08
2-2005          5-24-05     37.04
2006-02         4-6-06      34.15
1-2007          11-27-07    34.17
1-2009          8-20-09     37.06
2011-002        7-26-11     34.22
2012-001        5-22-12     37.24
2014-001        2-28-14     37.01
2016-004        2-23-16     32.040
2016-005        2-23-16     32.040
2016-006        2-23-16     32.040
2016-007        2-23-16     110.41,
                            110.42
2017-004        11-28-17    32.040
2019-010        11-26-19    35.01
2019-011        11-26-19    33.05
BC-DCC 2020-001 10-26-20    34.29
2022-002        5-24-22     34.20
2022-007        9-1-22      37.16
2022-010        11-16-22    34.05
2023-001        1-26-23     33.04
                           
 
REFERENCES TO BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        6-4-84      T.S.O. II
-        12-17-85    T.S.O. II
-        8-15-88     T.S.O. II
1995-3   3-6-95      150.99
1999-5   12-20-99    33.06
-        7-19-99     T.S.O II
2003-1   3-3-03      Ch. 150, Appendix
4-2003   8-4-03      33.08
6-2003   10-20-03    37.07
1-2004   4-5-04      37.12
2-2004   9-20-04     T.S.O. II
3-2004   10-4-04     151.01
2006-01  1-17-06     T.S.O. I
4-2006   3-21-06     T.S.O. VI
5-2006   3-21-06     T.S.O. VI
6-2006   3-21-06     T.S.O. VI
9-2008   10-7-08     37.07
5-2009   4-7-09      151.01
11-2009  11-17-09    T.S.O. II
1-2010   6-15-10     37.14
2010-2   7-6-10      T.S.O. V
2010-4   12-21-10    T.S.O. II
2011-1   2-1-11      T.S.O. IV
2011-003 4-5-11      T.S.O. II
2011-004 4-5-11      37.15
2011-005 4-5-11      32.041
2011-006 4-19-11     37.16
2011-009 8-2-11      T.S.O. II
2012-001 4-3-12      33.09
2012-003 7-17-12     T.S.O. II
2012-004 7-17-12     T.S.O. II
2013-001 1-3-13      33.10
2013-002 2-5-13      39.15
2013-003 6-18-13     T.S.O. II
2013-004 9-17-13     T.S.O. VI
2013-005 9-17-13     T.S.O. VI
2013-006 9-17-13     37.26
2014-003 3-4-14      T.S.O. II
2014-004 3-18-14     T.S.O. II
2014-008 9-2-14      T.S.O. II
2014-009 9-2-14      90.99
2015-003 2-17-15     T.S.O. II
2015-004 3-17-15     T.S.O. II
2015-005 4-7-15      T.S.O. II
2015-006 6-2-15      T.S.O. II
2015-007 6-2-15      T.S.O. II
2016-002 1-19-16     T.S.O. VI
2016-004 3-1-16      37.30
2016-005 4-5-16      T.S.O. II
2017-001 3-28-17     T.S.O. VI
2017-002 4-28-17     T.S.O. V
2017-003 9-5-17      T.S.O. VI
2017-004 10-3-17     T.S.O. VI
2017-005 10-3-17     T.S.O. VI
2017-006 10-3-17     T.S.O. VI
2017-007 12-19-17    T.S.O. II
2019-011 12-3-19     T.S.O. II
2020-008 11-17-20    T.S.O. II
2020-009 12-1-20     T.S.O. VI
2021-007 11-2-21     T.S.O. VI
2022-006 5-4-22      T.S.O. IV
2022-007 11-15-22    T.S.O. II
2022-008 11-15-22    T.S.O. II
2022-018 12-20-22    T.S.O. III
2022-019 12-20-22    T.S.O. IV
2023-001 1-17-23     T.S.O. II
2023-002 1-17-23     T.S.O. II
2023-006 5-16-23     T.S.O. II
2023-009 9-5-23      T.S.O. II
2023-12  11-8-23     T.S.O. II
                    
 
REFERENCES TO COUNTY COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.                              Date Passed Code Section
7-1997                                11-25-97    38.02
1-1999                                4-27-99     50.03
3-1999                                6-22-99     T.S.O. V
1-2001                                4-24-01     T.S.O. VI
2-2001                                5-22-01     T.S.O. VI
4-2003                                9-9-03      38.02
2008-1                                3-25-08     34.20
2012-001                              5-22-12     33.10
2012-002                              5-22-12     33.11
2012-003                              6-19-12     33.11
2012-004                              10-12-12    33.11
2013-006                              9-30-13     37.26
2019-007                              11-26-19    T.S.O. II
2020-016                              11-17-20    T.S.O. II
2021-002                              1-26-21     T.S.O. VI
2021-003                              2-23-21     T.S.O. VI
Lawrenceburg City Council Res. 2021-2 5-3-21   T.S.O. II
2021-005                              9-16-21     37.15
- -                                   4-22-22     T.S.O. II
2022-003                              11-16-22    T.S.O. II
2022-004                              11-16-22    T.S.O. II
2023-001                              1-26-23     T.S.O. II
2023-003                              5-23-23     T.S.O. II
2023-003A                             9-15-23     T.S.O. II
2023-004                              11-14-23    T.S.O. II
                                                 
 
