DECATUR COUNTY, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2020-9, passed 9-8-20,
and Res. passed 11-18-19; and
State legislation current through 2020 Indiana Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 3
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2014-6
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR DECATUR COUNTY, INDIANA,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE COUNTY
   WHEREAS, Indiana Code 36-1-5-3 empowers and authorizes the County to revise,
amend, restate, codify and compile ordinances and to incorporate such ordinance
into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners has authorized a general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of Decatur County of a general and
permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF DECATUR
COUNTY, INDIANA:
Section 1.   The general ordinance of Decatur County, Indiana as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of Decatur County, Indiana.”
Section 2.   This Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Code Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
      30.   General Provisions
      31.   County Organizations
      32.   Officials and Employees
      33.   Tax and Finance
   TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Wastewater; Sewage Disposal
      51.   Disposal of Solid Waste
   TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Regulations
      71.   Abandoned Railroad Structures
      72.   Traffic Schedules
      73.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Animal Regulation
      91.   Fair Housing
      92.   Public Nuisances
      93.   Abandoned Vehicles
      94.   Streets and Sidewalks
   TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   Retail Food Establishment; Bed and Breakfast
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   Weapons; Firearms
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   Building Regulations
      151.   Numbering System for Structures
      152.   Underground Lines
      153.   Survey Recordation
      154.   Wireless Communication Facilities
      155.   Flood Hazard Areas
      156.   Zoning Code
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
      I.   Franchises
      II.   Land Use
      III.   Vacations
      IV.   Zoning Map
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in this
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in this Code; provided; such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   This Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the Decatur County Auditor is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of this Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the County Auditor.
Section 5.   This Code shall be in full force and effect upon passage and shall
be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinances and all
provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein contained and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded, and
approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Commissioners of Decatur County, Indiana
on this 3rd day of November, 2014.
                                 \s\  Jerome Buening     
                                 \s\    Rick Nobbe           
                                 \s\  John Richards       
ATTEST:
\s\  Janet S. Chadwell
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Decatur County
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05  RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD.  The Decatur County Board of Commissioners.
      COUNCIL.  The Decatur County Council.
      COUNTY.  Decatur County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY.  Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH.  One calendar month.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING.  When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING.  Include printing, lithographing or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR.  One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06  SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Board
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12  LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   TAX AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Contractual public library
   
30.02   Reserve deputy sheriffs
   
30.03   County Council Districts
   
30.04   County Commissioner Districts
   
30.05   Marijuana Eradication Program
   
30.06   Local Advisory Council for polling place selection
   
30.07   Declarations of disaster emergencies
   
30.08   Tobacco use in county buildings
   
30.09   Travel advisory status levels
   
30.10   Internal control standards and materiality threshold
   
30.11   Bulk form copies
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01  CONTRACTUAL PUBLIC LIBRARY.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 36-12-6, to be effective May 2,
1983, there is hereby created and established a county contractual public
library, consisting of the following townships not already taxed for library
services, those townships being the following, to-wit: Adams, Clay, Clinton,
Fugit, Jackson, Marion, Salt Creek, Sand Creek and Washington, excluding the
City of Greensburg, to be known as the county contractual public library, and
the Library Board so established shall have the powers and duties of a Library
Board as set forth in the Act.
   (B)   Within ten days, there shall be appointed four citizens who have
resided for at least two years in the County Contractual Public Library
District. Two members shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners,
one of whom shall be appointed for one year and one for three years and at
least one of whom shall be a woman; two members who are to be appointed by the
County Auditor, one of whom shall be appointed for two years and one for four
years and at least one of whom shall be a woman. After the first appointments
have been made, all subsequent appointments will be for a term of four years.
All further appointments shall be in accordance with I.C. 36-12-6.
   (C)   The county contractual public library will remain as a county
contractual library and may not merge with the Greensburg Public Library
without the consent of the Board of County Commissioners. The tax rate shall be
established so that the amount of tax collected from the City of Greensburg
will approximately equal the amount of tax collected from the county outside of
Greensburg.
(Res. passed 5-2-1983)
§ 30.02  RESERVE DEPUTY SHERIFFS.
   (A)   The Sheriff and the Sheriff’s Merit Board are hereby authorized to
appoint up to 15 persons to serve as Sheriff’s reserves for the county.
   (B)   Sheriff’s reserves shall have all of the same police powers as regular
deputies, except as limited by rules of the County Sheriff’s Department.
Reserves may not be members of a regular Police Department. Reserves must
comply with applicable state laws concerning training.
   (C)   To the extent that funds are appropriated, Sheriff’s reserves may:
      (1)   Receive a uniform allowance; and/or
      (2)   Be insured for life and accident coverage.
   (D)   Sheriff’s reserves are not eligible to participate in any pension
program provided for regular members of the Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. 1993-1, passed 1-4-1993)
§ 30.03  COUNTY COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   The county is divided into four County Council Districts for purposes of
electing four members of the County Council as fiscal body for the county, and
those districts are numbered, named and include the precincts as hereafter
described beginning with the election in 2002:
   (A)   District One shall consist of Greensburg City Precincts Numbers 1, 2,
3, 4 and 5;
   (B)   District Two shall consist of Greensburg City Precincts Numbers 6, 7
and 8, and also Washington Township Precinct;
   (C)   District Three shall consist of Sand Creek Township North Precinct,
Sand Creek Township South Precinct, Westport Precinct, Salt Creek Township
Precinct and Marion Township Precinct; and
   (D)   District Four shall consist of Adams Township Precinct, St. Paul
Precinct, Clay Township Precinct, Jackson Township Precinct, Fugit Township
Precinct and Clinton Township Precinct.
(Ord. 2002-14, passed 8-5-2002)
§ 30.04  COUNTY COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS.
   The county is divided into three County Commissioner Districts for purposes
of electing three members of Board of County Commissioners and those districts
are numbered, named and include the precincts as hereafter described:
   (A)   District One shall consist of all Greensburg City Precincts,
Washington Township Precinct, Fugit Township Precinct and Salt Creek Township
Precinct;
   (B)   District Two shall consist of and include Clinton Township Precinct,
Adams Township Precinct, St. Paul Town Precinct, Clay Township Precinct; and
   (C)   District Three shall consist of and include Sand Creek Township North
Precinct, Sand Creek Township South Precinct, Westport Precinct, Marion
Township Precinct and Jackson Township Precinct.
(Ord. 2002-15, passed 9-5-2002)
§ 30.05  MARIJUANA ERADICATION PROGRAM.
   A Marijuana Eradication Program is hereby established under the authority of
statute and the County Weed Control Board as follows.
   (A)   The County Weed Control Board shall appoint a marijuana eradication
officer for the county who shall establish and administer a marijuana
eradication program for the county.
   (B)   In the event, no such marijuana eradication officer is appointed by
the Board, the County Sheriff or a person designated by the County Sheriff
shall serve in that capacity.
   (C)   (1)   The marijuana eradication officer may establish a laboratory for
the purpose of identifying or confirming the identity of marijuana leaves, and
further, that officer may apply for and pursue grants to:
         (a)   Establish and maintain equipment and supplies for such a
laboratory;
         (b)   To obtain training to qualify as an expert in the identification
of marijuana;
         (c)   To train law enforcement officer working in the county in the
identification and eradication of marijuana; and
         (d)   To train or equipment law enforcement officers working in the
county in the methods and procedures necessary to seize and eradicate growing
or cultivated marijuana.
      (2)   In addition, the marijuana eradication officer may expend funds to
assist law enforcement officers in locating, seizing and destroying marijuana.
   (D)   The marijuana control officer shall periodically convene, or as
otherwise needed, a meeting of all of the chief administrators of law
enforcement agencies working in the county and also such other representatives,
as the marijuana control officer determines are necessary, from the agriculture
industry in the county and thereafter review the marijuana eradication effort
within the past period and implement such programs necessary to more
effectively eradicate marijuana in the future within the county.
   (E)   This section establishes the “Decatur County Marijuana Eradication
Fund” for all fees collected under I.C. 33-37-5-7 as such law now exists or is
hereafter amended. The marijuana eradication officer shall propose an annual
budget for the use of this fund for the purposes described in this section.
That officer shall also administer expenditures from this fund under the
appropriated budget. Hereafter:
      (1)   The Clerk of the county courts shall periodically deliver all fees
collected under I.C. 33-37-5-77 to the Auditor of the county for administration
and accounting as required by statute; and
      (2)   The Auditor shall maintain a separate accounting for these fees to
be used exclusively for the purposes under this section, as appropriated by
lawful county authority.
(Ord. 2003-7, passed 4-21-2003)
§ 30.06  LOCAL ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR POLLING PLACE SELECTION.
   (A)   A local Advisory Council is hereby established to provide assistance
to the County Commissioners in choosing polling places.
   (B)   The Advisory Council shall consist of the County Clerk and two other
registered voters who are residents of the county. Appointments shall be made
by the County Commissioners for four-year terms.
   (C)   At least two members of the Advisory Council shall be representative
of the disabilities community or elderly voters. No more than two members may
be of the same political party.
   (D)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least 60 days before election day
to review the prospective polling places and make recommendations regarding
accessibility, improvements and alternate locations. The recommendations of the
Advisory Council shall be conveyed to the Board of County Commissioners by the
County Clerk.
   (E)   The Advisory Council may meet at other times as scheduled by the
County Clerk. The Council is responsible for the following:
      (1)   Review surveys of polling places and other information to determine
whether any locations do not comply with accessibility requirements;
      (2)   Develop assessment forms as a way of conducting ongoing evaluations
of polling places;
      (3)   Conduct on-site visits as necessary to determine compliance or to
resolve issues of accessibility;
      (4)   Make recommendations for resolving problems at existing polling
places or choosing suitable replacements; and
      (5)   Other duties as determined by the County Clerk to assure compliance
by the county with the Help America Vote Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 15301 et seq.,
and similar state legislation.
   (F)   The members of the Advisory Council shall be entitled to be paid $35
per day for attendance at a meeting or inspection of polling places. Members
shall also be entitled to reimbursement for mileage at rates allowed by state
law.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 3-7-2005)
§ 30.07  DECLARATIONS OF DISASTER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may declare a local disaster emergency upon
the occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made cause,
including:
      (1)   Fire;
      (2)   Flood;
      (3)   Earthquake;
      (4)   Wind;
      (5)   Storm;
      (6)   Wave action;
      (7)   Oil spill;
      (8)   Other water contamination requiring emergency action to avert
danger or damage;
      (9)   Air contamination;
      (10)   Drought;
      (11)   Explosion;
      (12)   Riot; or
      (13)   Hostile military or paramilitary action.
   (B)   If a majority of the Board of Commissioners is not available, the
declaration of emergency may be declared by one Commissioner and may be
confirmed by the entire Board when a majority is available.
   (C)   Any order or proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating a local
state of emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be
filed promptly in the office of the County Clerk.
   (D)   As part of declaring a local state of emergency, the Board of
Commissioners may prohibit travel on all or a portion of any county road.
Travel restrictions shall not apply to emergency personnel or to those working
to restore utility service. Any order prohibiting travel on a county road shall
be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly in the office
of the County Clerk.
   (E)   Any person who operates a vehicle on a county road in violation of an
emergency order prohibiting travel commits a Class C infraction, subject to a
fine of up to $500.
   (F)   A vehicle which is stopped or parked on a county road during a
declared disaster emergency, whether attended or unattended, which interferes
with snow removal or other emergency relief activities, may be removed and
towed to a secure location at the owner’s expense.
PROCLAMATION OF DISASTER EMERGENCY
DECATUR COUNTY, INDIANA
   The Board of Commissioners of Decatur County, Indiana hereby declares that a
local disaster emergency exists in the following areas of Decatur County:
         _____   Entire county
         _____   Parts of county including ________________________________
               _____________________________________________________
               _____________________________________________________
   Due to hazardous conditions, vehicles are prohibited on all county roads or
on the following roads:
This travel limit does not apply to individuals engaged in employment necessary
to maintain a safe rail system, restore utility service or provide any other
emergency public service.
Signed this date: _____________
                        BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
                        __________________________________
                        __________________________________
                        __________________________________
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 5-2-2005)
§ 30.08  TOBACCO USE IN COUNTY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known as the “Decatur County Tobacco Free
Act of 2006".
   (B)   Findings and intent. The Commissioners of the county do hereby find
that: numerous studies have found that tobacco use is a major contributor to
indoor air pollution, and that breathing secondhand smoke is a cause of disease
in healthy nonsmokers, including heart disease, stroke, respiratory disease and
lung cancer.
      (1)   The U.S. Surgeon General has determined that the simple separation
of smokers and nonsmokers within the same air space may reduce, but does not
eliminate, the exposure of nonsmokers to secondhand smoke. The Environmental
Protection Agency has determined that secondhand smoke cannot be reduced to
safe levels in buildings with high rates of ventilation.
      (2)   Smoking is a potential cause of fires; cigarette and cigar burns
and ash stains on furniture and fixtures cause economic damage to the county.
      (3)   Accordingly, the Board of Commissioners of the county finds and
declares that the purpose of this section is to protect the public health and
welfare by prohibiting tobacco use in all buildings owned or leased by the
county.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDING.  All buildings owned or leased by the county.
      ENCLOSED AREA.  All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed on
all sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which extend from
the floor to the ceiling.
      SMOKING.  Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, weed, plant or other combustible substance in any manner or in
any form.
      TOBACCO USE.  Smoking, chewing or maintaining tobacco on one’s self to
derive the effect of tobacco.
   (D)   Application of section to county-owned facilities. All buildings owned
or leased by the county shall be subject to the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Prohibition of tobacco use in county buildings. Tobacco use shall be
prohibited in all enclosed areas which include all buildings owned, leased or
operated by the county, and within 25 feet of the entrances to any building.
   (F)   Cessation. Tobacco cessation programs shall be offered to all county
employees at no charge as long as State Tobacco Prevention and Cessation allows
the County Tobacco Awareness Coalition to provide such programs.
   (G)   Posting of signs. “No Smoking” signs or the international “No Smoking”
symbol (consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette
enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and
conspicuously posted in every building owned by the county where smoking is
prohibited by this section.
   (H)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by department heads or an
authorized designee. Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this
section may initiate enforcement with department heads or an authorized
designee.
   (I)   Other applicable laws. This section shall not be interpreted or
construed to permit smoking where it is otherwise restricted by other
applicable laws.
(Ord. 2005-13, passed 12-19-2005)  Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.09  TRAVEL ADVISORY STATUS LEVELS.
   (A)   The following travel status information conditions as adopted by the
State Department of Homeland Security are hereby adopted for the county.
      (1)   Warning (Red). Travel may be restricted to emergency personnel
only. Citizens are directed to refrain from all travel, comply with necessary
emergency measures, cooperate with public officials and disaster services
forces in executing emergency operations plans, and comply with the directions
of properly identified officers. Further and more specific restrictions may be
included in the disaster declaration.
      (2)   Watch (Orange). Conditions are threatening to the safety of the
public. Only essential travel is recommended (i.e., to and from work, emergency
situations and the like). Emergency action plans have been or should now be
implemented by businesses, schools, government agencies and other
organizations.
      (3)   Advisory (Yellow). Routine travel or activities may be restricted
in areas because of a hazardous situation. Citizens should use caution or avoid
these areas. Schools and businesses may begin to implement their emergency
action plans.
      (4)   Caution (White). A condition may develop that limits or hinders
travel in isolated areas. No travel restrictions have been placed in effect by
county officials, but citizens should be alert to changing conditions.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners may issue a travel status alert
after appropriate consultation with the County Highway Department, Sheriff’s
Department or other agencies. If a majority of the Board of Commissioners is
not available, the determination may be made by one Commissioner and may be
confirmed when a majority is available.
   (C)   An order or proclamation of emergency conditions which restricts
travel to emergency personnel shall be given prompt and general publicity and
shall be filed promptly in the office of the County Clerk.
   (D)   As part of declaring a local state of emergency, the Board of
Commissioners may prohibit travel on all or a portion of any county road.
Travel restrictions shall not apply to emergency personnel or to those working
to restore utility service. Any order prohibiting travel on a county road shall
be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly in the office
of the County Clerk.
   (E)   A vehicle which is stopped or parked on a county road during a
declared disaster emergency, whether attended or unattended, which interferes
with snow removal or other emergency relief activities, may be removed and
towed to secure location at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 2010-1, passed 3-15-2010)  Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.10  INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND MATERIALITY THRESHOLD.
   (A)   The acceptable minimum level of internal control standards and
procedures developed under I.C. 5-11-1-27(e) by the SBOA contained in the
Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivision manual,
are herein-adopted by Decatur County and that county personnel receive training
concerning the internal control standards and procedures hereby adopted.
   (B)   Materiality, in Decatur County Government, is defined is $100 per
occurrence. That is, if one occurrence of a loss or shortage or other
irregularity is equal or greater than $100, it must be reported to the State
Board of Accounts, The materiality definition is not limited to defalcations or
suspicious activity involving only cash or cash transactions. If supplies,
equipment or other fixed assets belonging to the county are suspected of being
non-appropriated or stolen or used in a manner not authorized by Decatur County
officials and the value of those supplies, equipment or fixed assets are
approximately $100, that misuse or series of misuse should be reported. That is
not to say that if a loss or shortage is less than $100 it should be ignored.
If there is a series of events, within the same office or department that
appears to be a structuring event to defraud or misappropriate county funds or
property, that event or series of events should be reported.
   (C)   All erroneous or irregular material variances, losses, shortages, or
thefts of political subdivision funds or property shall be reported immediately
to the State Board of Accounts. For all material variances, losses, shortages,
or thefts, the State Board of Accounts shall:
      (1)   Determine the amount of funds involved and report the amount to the
appropriate government and law enforcement officials;
      (2)   Determine the internal control weakness that contributed to or
caused the condition; and
      (3)   Make written recommendations to the appropriate legislative body or
appropriate official overseeing the internal control system addressing:
         (a)   The method, of correcting the condition; and
         (b)   The necessary internal control policies and internal control 
procedures that must be modified to prevent a recurrence of the condition.
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 5-11-1-27(l), if any Decatur County employee knows or
suspects that other county employees are engaged in fiscal misconduct, it is
his/her responsibility to immediately notify their Supervisor or the Board of
Commissioners or if the Supervisor or a Commissioner is involved the County
Attorney, then the County Auditor and Prosecuting Attorney are to be contacted.
   (E)   The Decatur County Ethics Policy/Internal Control/ Materiality
Declaration regarding establishment of a policy on materiality and a process
for reporting material items, which was reviewed and approved by the Decatur
County Board of Commissioners and the Decatur County Council is hereby adopted.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 6-20-2016)
Statutory Reference:
   Materiality Policy, see I.C. 5-11-1-10, 5-11-1-21, and 5-11-1-27.
§ 30.11  BULK FORM COPIES.
   (A)   Definitions.  For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BULK FORM COPY.  An aggregation of:
         (a)   Copies of all recorded documents received by the County Recorder
for recording in a calendar day, week, month or year;
         (b)   The indices for finding, retrieving, and viewing all recorded
documents received by the County Recorder for recording in a calendar day,
week, month or year; or
         (c)   Both divisions (1) and (2).
      BULK USER. An individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited
liability company, or an unincorporated association that receives bulk form
copies under a contract with the County Recorder.
      COPY. A reproduction, including an image of a recorder document or
indices created by:
         (a)   Duplicating electronically stored data onto a disk, tape, drum,
or any other medium of electronic data storage; or
         (b)   Reproducing on microfilm.
      INDICES. All of the indexing information used by the County Recorder for
finding, retrieving and viewing a recorded document.
      RECORDED DOCUMENT. A writing, a paper, a document, a plat, a map, a
survey, or anything else received at any time for recording or filing in the
public records maintained by the County Recorder or the County Recorder's
designee.
   (B)   Manner and form of production. It is hereby established that the
County Recorder shall provide bulk form copies to a bulk user only by
electronically transmitting the copies using an electronic transfer process.
   (C)   Procedure for requesting bulk form copies. A bulk user must submit a
written request to the County Recorder that identifies the requested bulk form
copies with reasonable particularity. Unless the request is refused under
division (F) below, upon receipt of a valid written request the County Recorder
or the County Recorder's designee shall provide the bulk form copies to the
bulk user by the method or methods established by ordinance. The bulk form
copies shall be provided within a reasonable time after the later of the
following events:
      (1)   The Recorder's archival process is completed and bulk form copies
become available in the County Recorder's Office.
      (2)   The bulk form user executes a contract that meets the requirements
of division (D) below with:
         (a)   The County Recorder; and
         (b)   If the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy
services, the County Recorder's designee.
      (3)   The County Recorder or the County Recorder's designee shall work
with reasonable diligence to ensure that bulk form copies are timely produced
to the bulk user.
   (D)   Fees charged for bulk form copies.
      (1)   Based on a cost study, it is determined that the costs incurred by
the County Recorder of producing bulk form copies (including applying a
watermark or other protective feature) substantially exceed both the standard
fee of $0.10 per page or per recorded document fixed by I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(d),
and the fee hereafter fixed. Accordingly, the following fee schedule is hereby
adopted:
         (a)   $0.20 per page for a copy of a recorded document, including the
instrument's book and page, if applicable.
         (b)   $0.20 per recorded document for a copy of the indices used by
the County Recorder for finding, retrieving, and viewing a recorded document.
      (2)   The fees charged by the County Recorder are subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   The County Recorder shall pay the fees into the County Treasury
at the end of each calendar month.
         (b)   The fees prescribed and collected under this section supersede
all other fees for bulk form copies required by law to be charged for services
rendered by the County Recorder to bulk users.
         (c)   All revenue generated by the County Recorder under this section
shall be deposited in the County Recorder's records perpetuation fund and used
by the Recorder in accordance with I.C. 36-2-7- 3 0(f).
         (d)   The Recorder shall periodically update and verify the cost study
referred to in division (D)(1) above.
   (E)   Bulk user contract; termination.
      (1)   A bulk user must enter into a contract with the County Recorder and
if the County Recorder uses a third party to provide bulk copy services, the
County Recorder's designee, in order to receive bulk form copies. The contract
must be in writing and must require that the bulk user agrees not to do any of
the following:
         (a)   Except as provided in division (F) below, provide, transfer, or
allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded document obtained by the bulk user
under this section to a third party;
         (b)   Engage in unauthorized access to recorded documents;
         (c)   Engage in unauthorized alteration of recorded documents.
         (d)   A contract required under this division (E) may not include any
restrictions on a bulk form user's use of the bulk form copies other than those
contained in this section.
      (2)   If a bulk user does not comply with a contract, the County Recorder
may terminate the contract, immediately stop providing bulk form copies to the
bulk user, and refuse to provide the bulk form copies required by the bulk user
if all termination provisions and procedures in the contract have been met by
the County Recorder. The County Recorder may refuse subsequent requests from a
bulk user for bulk form copies in the following circumstances:
         (a)   The bulk user is a person that has had a previous bulk form copy
contract terminated by the County Recorder because the Recorder determined that
the bulk user failed to comply with the contract;
         (b)   The bulk user is a corporation or limited liability company in
which a person has a majority or controlling interest and:
            1.   The person requested bulk form copies under a previous
contract with the County Recorder; and
            2.   The contract was terminated by the County Recorder because the
County Recorder determined that the person failed to comply with the contract.
   (F)   Resale of bulk form copies by bulk user.
      (1)   (a)   A bulk user that is licensed under I.C. 27-1-15.6-6(d) or
holds a certificate of authority under I.C. 27-7-3-6 may provide bulk form
copies related to the specific order for a title search (as defined in I.C. 27-
7-3-2) when operating as:
            1.   A title plant for the issuance of title insurance (as defined
in I.C. 27-7-3-2); or
            2.   Title company (as defined in I.C. 27-7-3-2).
         (b)   A bulk user that meets the requirements of this subsection may
charge its customers a fee for using the bulk form copies obtained by the bulk
user that may not exceed the costs incurred by the bulk user for obtaining the
bulk form copies. A bulk user that meets the requirements of this division may
not resell, provide, transfer, or allow the transfer of any copy of a recorded
document, whether in bulk form or as individual copies or images, to any other
bulk user or title plant.
      (2)   A bulk user that does not meet the requirements of division (F)(a)
and (b) above is prohibited from selling, offering for sale, advertising for
sale, soliciting a purchase of, loaning, giving away, allowing subscription
service to, or otherwise transferring, provide, or allowing the transfer of
bulk form copies for commercial purposes to a third party, whether the copies
are in bulk form or individual copies or images.
   (G)   Enhanced access not affected. This section does not apply to enhanced
access authorized by I.C. 5-14-3-3 and any Decatur County ordinances
promulgated thereunder.
   (H)   Watermark.  The Recorder shall watermark all bulk form copies with the
following:
      "THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED FOR THE SALE USE OF (insert bulk user name)
AND EXCEPT AS PROVIDED FOR IN I.C. 36-2-7-10.1(h), SHALL NOT BE RESOLD PURSUANT
TO I.C. 36-2-7-10.1. OFFICIAL COPIES MAY BE OBTAINED AT THE COUNTY RECORDER'S
OFFICE."
(Ord. 2017-16, passed 8-21-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-2, passed 1-16-2018)
§ 30.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by the
provisions of §
30.08 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine not exceeding $50.
Each day on which a violation of §
30.08 occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation.
   (C)   Any person who operates a vehicle on a county road in violation of an
emergency order prohibiting travel commits a Class C infraction, subject to a
fine of up to $500.
(Res. passed 5-2-1983; Ord. 2005-13, passed 12-19-2005)
CHAPTER 31:  COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Generally
   
31.01   Weed Control Board
   
31.02   Governing board; Enhanced 9-1-1 system
   
31.03   Community Corrections Advisory Board
   
31.04   Public Defender Board
   
31.05   Visitors and Recreation Commission
   
31.06   Department of Redevelopment
   
31.07   Economic Development Commission
   
31.08   Cemetery Commission
   
31.09   Animal Control Board
   
31.10   Area Plan Commission
Department of Emergency Management
   
31.20   General scope and intent
   
31.21   Organization and administration
   
31.22   Emergency powers, regulations and procedures
GENERALLY
§ 31.01  WEED CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   The County Weed Control Board is established pursuant to I.C. 15-16-7-
1 et seq. for the purpose of controlling certain noxious weeds.
   (B)   The County Weed Control Board shall consist of the following members:
      (1)   One township trustee of the county;
      (2)   One soil and water conservation district supervisor;
      (3)   One representative from the agricultural community of the county;
      (4)   One representative from the County Highway Department or an
appointee of the County Commissioners; and
      (5)   One cooperative extension service agent from the county to serve in
a non-voting advisory capacity.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners shall appoint each member of the
Weed Control Board for a term of four years. The Weed Control Board shall elect
a Chairperson and Secretary at the initial meeting of the Board. Vacancies in
Board membership shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as
initial appointments.
(Ord. 2-1985, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 31.02  GOVERNING BOARD; ENHANCED 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   Under the authority of and subject to I.C. 36-8-16.6 and 36-8-16.7 and
County Ord. 1990-20, a governing board of directors is hereby established to
provide for the ongoing proper operation of the County Emergency Telephone
System and administered in accordance with the following terms.
   (A)   The governing board of directors shall be responsible to the Common
Council of the county for its operation.
   (B)   The governing board of directors shall consist of the following
people: one person appointed by the County Common Council, one person appointed
by the Greensburg City Council, one person appointed by the County Volunteer
Firefighters Association, the Sheriff of the county, the Chief of Police of the
City of Greensburg, the Fire Chief of the City of Greensburg and the director
of the county emergency ambulance services.
   (C)   The responsibilities of the governing board are as follows:
      (1)   To present a yearly budget for operations to the Council;
      (2)   To review and monitor the operation of the system;
      (3)   To receive, investigate, document and act upon the E 9-1-1 concerns
of any PSAP operator or public service agency;
      (4)   To approve the operating protocol of each PSAP;
      (5)   To maintain the standards and integrity of the E 9-1-1 system as
defined under the laws of the state;
      (6)   To participate in 9-1-1 coordination on a regional basis (i.e.,
with surrounding counties)  and to continue an ongoing program of public
education regarding the 9-1-1 system; and
      (7)   To make recommendations to the County Common Council on significant
modifications to the 9-1-1 system and/or its operation.
(Council Ord. 1991-100, passed 7-10-1991)
§ 31.03  COMMUNITY CORRECTIONS ADVISORY BOARD.
   The Decatur County Community Corrections Advisory Board is hereby
established and it shall consist of the members required by I.C. § 11-12-2-2.
(Res. 2014-7, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 31.04  PUBLIC DEFENDER BOARD.
   (A)   Board established. The County Public Defender Board is hereby
established for the purpose of providing legal representation to indigent
defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile, probation violation, extradition,
child support, civil commitments and other proceedings where the right to
counsel has been established by law.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD.  The County Public Defender Board created by this section.
      INDIGENT DEFENDANT/RESPONDENT.  A person who requests legal
representation and is determined by the court to be entitled to legal
representation at public expense.
      LEGAL REPRESENTATION.  Includes services in connection with all pre-
trial, trial and appellate proceedings in which an indigent defendant/
respondent has a right to counsel. LEGAL REPRESENTATION means the services of
an attorney provided to a defendant/respondent in a matter originating in a
state court in the county involving:
         (a)   A person charged with a crime as defined in I.C. 35-31.5-2-75;
         (b)   An act of delinquency as defined in I.C. 31-37-1-2;
         (c)   A violation of a condition of probation established as a part of
a sentence in a juvenile or criminal matter;
         (d)   Detention of a person subject to extradition to another
jurisdiction;
         (e)   Proceedings to collect unpaid child support pursuant to I.C. 31-
16;
         (f)   Civil commitment and contempt proceedings; or
         (g)   Other proceedings where the right to counsel at public expense
has been established by law.
   (C)   Board membership and appointment.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of three members: one member appointed by
the County Commissioners; and two members from different political parties
appointed by majority vote of the judges who exercise felony or juvenile
jurisdiction.
      (2)   The initial term of the member appointed by the County
Commissioners shall expire on December 31, 1997. The initial term of one member
appointed by the judges shall expire on December 31, 1998, and the initial term
of the other member appointed by the judges shall expire on December 31, 1999.
      (3)   After the initial term of each member, appointments shall be for
three-year terms. Members of the Board shall serve until their successor is
appointed. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the authority
appointing the member vacating the position and shall be for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
      (4)   The following persons shall be ineligible to serve as members of
the Board: a city, town, or county attorney, a law enforcement officer, a judge
or a court employee.
      (5)   Board members shall serve without pay, but may receive
reimbursement for expenses incurred in connection with the member’s duties if
approved by the Board.
      (6)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of conducting the business of the Board. Decisions of the Board shall be
approved by a majority of the members present.
      (7)   The Board shall meet at least quarterly, or upon call of its
Chairperson or any two members of the Board.
      (8)   The Board shall elect its Chairperson by a majority vote of the
Board.
   (D)   Powers and duties of the Board. The Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   Prepare a comprehensive plan for providing legal representation to
indigent defendants/respondents in the county in accordance with I.C. 33-40-7-
5. The comprehensive plan shall, at a minimum, provide for:
         (a)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent at the
earliest possible point in time;
         (b)   Legal representation to an indigent defendant/respondent by the
same attorney or attorneys through the pendency of the matter to the greatest
extent possible; and
         (c)   Professional development, continuing legal education and
malpractice coverage for public defenders.
      (2)   Establish policies and procedure for the provision of competent
legal representation for indigent defendants/respondents in criminal, juvenile,
probation violation, extradition, child support and criminal contempt and other
matters pursuant to the comprehensive plan;
      (3)   Establish guidelines and procedures for the determination of
indigency and for the appropriate reimbursement for legal representation
provided at public expense in accordance with I.C. 33-40-3;
      (4)   Recommend an annual operating budget for the Agency and monitor the
expenditures of funds; and
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the County Council and the general public an
annual report on the operation of the Agency.
   (E)   Authority of judges. Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to
abridge the authority of any judge of a state court of this county from
appointing counsel for any person entitled thereto under the Constitution of
the United States or the Constitution of the state.
(Ord. 1997-4, passed 7-21-1997)
§ 31.05  VISITORS AND RECREATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Visitors and Recreation Commission shall be composed of
seven members. No more than a simple majority of the members may be affiliated
with the same political party. Each member must reside in the county. If
available and willing to serve, at least two members must be engaged in the
business of renting or furnishing rooms, lodging or accommodations. Not more
than one member may be affiliated with the same business entity.
   (B)   Three Commission members shall be appointed by the Mayor of
Greensburg, two by the County Commissioners and two by the County Council. At
least one member appointed by the Mayor must be engaged in the hotel or motel
business in the county.
   (C)   Each Commission member shall serve a two-year term, except that the
term of one of the members added by this section shall expire on December 31,
1999 and the term of the other added member shall expire on December 31, 2000.
A member may be reappointed to serve subsequent two-year terms. If a vacancy
occurs, the appointing authority shall appoint a qualified person to serve for
the remainder of the term. If a vacancy is not filled within 30 days, the
Commission shall appoint a member. A member may be removed for cause by his or
her appointing authority.
   (D)   Members of the Commission may not receive a salary, but they may be
reimbursed for necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (E)   The Commission shall operate according to the requirements of I.C. 6-
9-18-1 et seq.
(Ord. 1998-12, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 31.06  DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county now deems it to be in the
best interest of the county and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity
for rehabilitation, redevelopment or economic development of areas by private
enterprise and the county by establishing a department of redevelopment.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes the Department of
Redevelopment of the county. The Department will be controlled by a board of
five members known as the “Decatur County Redevelopment Commission”.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Act, all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the county that is not currently within the jurisdiction of a
municipal redevelopment district will be a taxing district to be known as the
County Redevelopment District for the purpose of levying and collecting special
benefit taxes for redevelopment and economic development purposes as provided
in the Act. The Board of Commissioners finds and determines that all of the
taxable property within this special taxing district will be considered to be
benefitted by the redevelopment projects and economic development projects
carried out under the Act to the extent of the special taxes levied under the
Act.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners of the county shall appoint all five
of the members of the County Redevelopment Commission.
      (2)   The term of office of the members of the County Redevelopment
Commission shall commence from the date of their appointment and expire on
January 1, 2008.
(Ord. 2006-7, passed 5-15-2006)
§ 31.07  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-4, the Council finds it necessary to create a
body with the powers to finance economic development or pollution control
facilities under the Act, and hereby establishes the County Department of
Economic Development (the “Department”).
      (1)   The Department is established to exercise the powers set forth in
the Act or otherwise granted by law.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-7, the Department will be controlled by a
board of three members, to be known as the County Economic Development
Commission (the “Commission”), consisting of three members to be appointed by
the Board, one of such members to be nominated by the Council, one of such
members to be selected by the Board and one of such members to be nominated by
the Common Council of the City of Greensburg, Indiana.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
adoption by the Council in the manner provided by law.
(Council Ord. 2007-1, passed 1-16-2007)
§ 31.08  CEMETERY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The County Cemetery Commission is hereby established, consisting of
five residents of the county.
   (B)   The members of the Cemetery Commission shall each be appointed for a
term of five years and may serve any number of consecutive terms. The initial
members shall be appointed for terms of one, two, three, four and five years,
so that one member may be reappointed each year.
   (C)   The purpose of the County Cemetery Commission is to provide for
cemeteries in the county which are without funds or sources of funds for
reasonable maintenance, have suffered neglect and deterioration, may be the
burial grounds for state pioneer leaders or veterans of an American war,
including the Revolutionary War, and were established before 1850.
   (D)   Before March 1 of each year, the County Cemetery Commission shall file
an annual report with the state agency designated by I.C. 23-14-67-3.5. That
report must include information on the following, and shall include any other
information required by state law:
      (1)   The budget of the County Cemetery Commission for the preceding
calendar year;
      (2)   Expenditures made by the County Cemetery Commission during the
preceding calendar year;
      (3)   Activities of the County Cemetery Commission during the preceding
calendar year; and
      (4)   Plans of the County Cemetery Commission for the calendar year
during which the report is filed.
   (E)   The Cemetery Commission shall present an annual plan and budget and
shall make an annual report, as required by I.C. 23-14-67-4, to the Board of
County Commissioners and to the County Council.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 9-4-2007)
§ 31.09  ANIMAL CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   The Joint Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control Board shall be
composed of five members. Two shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners
of the county, two shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Greensburg,
and one shall be appointed by the other four members.
   (B)   Members of the Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control Board shall be
compensated from the funds budgeted by such Board at the rate approved by the
city and county fiscal bodies.
   (C)   The Joint Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control Board shall
determine its total budget request and submit the same to the County Council of
Decatur County and the City Council of Greensburg, and each fiscal body shall
determine the appropriations to be made.
   (D)   The Joint Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control Board shall elect a
president, secretary and a treasurer from its membership who shall each serve
for a term of one year. Officers shall be elected annually at a Joint
Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control Board meeting to be held prior to
December 31 each year and shall take office on the first Monday of the
following year.
   (E)   The monies appropriated by the participating political subdivision
shall be deposited in a Joint City-County Animal Control Board fund in the
custody of the County Auditor. Monies may be withdrawn only upon vouchers
signed by an officer of the board.
   (F)   The Joint Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control Board shall have
the authority to accept gifts of money or property, and may accept such gifts
subject to conditions imposed by the donor if the Board determines that
acceptance of such gift is in the public interest.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 31.10  AREA PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Appointment of members.
      (1) The Decatur County Area Plan Commission ("APC") consists of nine
members, as follows:
         (a)   A person appointed by the Board of Commissioners from its
membership, or alternatively, a person designated by the Board of Commissioners
to represent the Board who may be either a citizen member or an elected or
appointed official or employee in the county government.
         (b)   Two persons appointed by the Board of Commissioners who are
residents of the unincorporated area of the County, or alternatively, residents
of an incorporated part of the county who are also owners of real property
located in whole or in part in the unincorporated area of the county.
         (c)   A person appointed by the County Council from its membership, or
alternatively, a person designated by the County Council to represent the
Council who may be either a citizen member or an elected or appointed official
or employee in the county government.
         (d)   A person appointed by the County Council who is a resident of
the unincorporated area of the county, or alternatively, a resident of an
incorporated pari of the county who is also an owner of real property located
in whole or in part in the unincorporated area of the county.
         (e)   A person appointed by the superintendent of the Decatur County
Community School Corporation. The person may be either a citizen member or an
elected or appointed official or employee of the school corporation.
         (f)   A person appointed by the superintendent of the Greensburg
Community School Corporation. The person may be either a citizen member or an
elected or appointed official or employee of the school corporation.
         (g)   The County Surveyor of Decatur County as a non-voting member.
         (h)   The County Agricultural Extension Educator for Decatur County.
         (i)   A person selected by the Advisory Council on Town Affairs
established under division (B) below to represent all the towns in the county
which are participants in the Area Planning Department. The person may be
either a citizen member or an elected or appointed official or employee in a
town government.
      (2)   Each citizen member appointed under this division (A) must have the
qualifications set forth I.C. 36-7-4-216.
   (B)   Advisory Council on Town Affairs.
      (1)   There is established in the Area Planning Department an Advisory
Council on Town Affairs. Each town council of a town that is a participant in
the Area Planning Department shall select one of its members as its
representative on the Advisory Council.
      (2)   The Advisory Council shall elect its own chairperson. The Advisory
Council shall meet in the town hall of the participating town having the
largest population, or at such other convenient location in the county as its
chairperson shall designate.
      (3)   Pursuant to division (A) above, the Advisory Council shall select a
person to serve on the APC who shall represent all of the towns in the county
which are participants in the Area Planning Department.
      (4)   The Advisory Council may, from time to time, meet with the person
it has selected to serve on the APC, and advise him or her with respect to
hearings and decisions on the agenda of the APC which may affect the affairs of
the towns in the county which are participants in the Area Planning Department.
   (C)   Terms of members.
      (1)   This section does not affect the term of office of any current
member of the APC.
      (2)   On and after the effective date of this section, the appointing
authority shall designate the term of each person the appointing authority
selects to serve on the APC, except that no term may extend for more than four
years.
   (D)   Vacancies; alternate members.
      (1)   If a vacancy occurs among the APC members who are appointed, then
the appointing authority shall select a member for the unexpired term of the
vacating member.
      (2)   The appointing authority may also appoint an alternate member to
participate with the APC in a hearing or decision if the regular member whom it
has selected has a disqualification under I.C. 36-7-4-223(c) (the provisions
pertaining to conflicts of interest or the inability of a member to be
impartial). An alternate member has all the powers and duties of a regular
member while participating in the hearing or decision.
   (E)   Application to Board of Zoning Appeals.  This section does not affect
the membership of the Decatur County Area Board of Zoning Appeals under I.C.
36-7-4-902.
   (F)   Ratification of actions previously taken. Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-4-16,
the Board of Commissioners hereby approves, confirms, and ratifies all actions
previously taken by the membership of the APC as currently structured, as well
as any and all actions taken by the Executive Director or other officers or
employees of the Area Planning Department and/or the Board of Commissioners
pursuant to any recommendation or decision that was duly adopted by the APC as
currently structured.
   (G)   Effective date. This section takes effect on January 1, 2017, or
immediately upon its adoption by the legislative bodies of all units that are
participating in the Area Planning Department as described in I.C. 36-7-4-211,
whichever is later.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 2017-1 Amd. 1, passed 3-2-2020)
DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 31.20  GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The general intent and purpose of this subchapter is to ensure that
the county will be adequately prepared to deal with disasters or emergencies or
to prevent or mitigate those disasters where possible, and to create a local
planning department to authorize and direct disaster and emergency management
functions in the county, in cooperation with the state and other political
subdivisions.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter is intended to supersede or delimit any
statutory powers of the County Sheriff to request assistance of the National
Guard under the circumstances delineated in I.C. 10-16-7-9, 10-16-7-10,
involving insurrection, rebellion, invasion, tumult, riot, resistance to law or
process, breach of the peace or public disaster.
   (C)   Nothing in this subchapter is intended to supersede or delimit the
powers of any incorporated municipality to adopt and implement emergency plans,
and promulgate and enforce special emergency regulations and procedures in the
advent of an actual emergency affecting such municipality; however, such
regulations and procedures as promulgated by the municipal authorities may not
be inconsistent with the county emergency regulations and procedures as
established in this subchapter.
   (D)   The definitions included in the state statutes for “disaster”,
“emergency management” and “emergency management worker” shall apply throughout
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 31.21  ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   County Emergency Management Advisory Council established. In
accordance with I.C. 10-14-3-17(c), there is established the County Emergency
Management Advisory Council, which shall consist of the following persons:
      (1)   The President of the Board of County Commissioners, or his or her
designee;
      (2)   The President of the County Council, or his or her designee;
      (3)   The Mayor of Greensburg, or his or her designee;
      (4)   One individual representing the Town Councils of Westport, St.
Paul, New Point and Millhousen, to be selected by the members under divisions
(A)(1), (A)(2) and (A)(3) above;
      (5)   One commander of a local civil air patrol unit in the county or his
or her designee, to be selected by the members under divisions (A)(1), (A)(2)
and (A)(3) above; and
      (6)   Two individuals or representatives of such private and public
agencies or organizations who can assist emergency management considered
appropriate by the remaining members of the Emergency Management Advisory
Council.
   (B)   Appointment and terms of members.
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall have a maximum of seven members.
         (a)   Each member appointed to serve under divisions (A)(4) and (A)(6)
above shall serve a four-year term and may not be reappointed for more than two
consecutive terms.
         (b)   The initial members appointed under divisions (A)(4) and (A)(6)
above shall serve terms of two, three and four years so that the terms of
subsequent members will end at different times.
      (2)   The Advisory Council shall have a Chairperson, a Vice Chairperson
and a Recording Secretary. These officers shall be elected by the Advisory
Council for one-year terms.
   (C)   Duties of Emergency Management Advisory Council as established in I.C.
10-14-3-17(d).
      (1)   The Advisory Council shall exercise general supervision and control
over the emergency management and disaster program of the county. The Advisory
Council shall select, or cause to be selected, with the approval of the County
Commissioners, a County Emergency Management Director, who shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration and operation of the
emergency management program in the county and shall be responsible to the
Chairperson of the Advisory Council.
      (2)   The Chairperson of the Advisory Council is responsible for
supervision of the Director of Emergency Management and shall conduct an annual
performance review of the Director. The Advisory Council shall have the
authority to recommend to the county Executive, the removal of the County
Emergency Management Director.
      (3)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least quarterly; the frequency,
time and place being determined by the Council. Meetings of the Advisory
Council shall be open meetings and shall be posted in accordance with I.C. 5-
14-1.5.
   (D)   Department of Emergency Management.
      (1)   There is hereby established a Department of Emergency Management
within the executive branch of the county government which shall be responsible
for disaster preparedness and coordination of response. The Emergency
Management Director shall be responsible for its organization, administration
and operation.
      (2)   The Director may recommend to the Advisory Council the appointment
of such assistants, clerical help, and other employees as deemed necessary to
the proper functioning of the Department in accordance with the plan. Personnel
decisions for the Department of Emergency Management shall be subject to
approval by the Advisory Council.
      (3)   The Director, in consultation with the Advisory Council, shall
prepare an annual budget for submission to the County Council.
      (4)   The Director, with approval of the Advisory Council, may appoint
emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary in accordance with the
plan. Volunteers must be at least 18 years of age.
      (5)   The Director shall review and keep current the county disaster
emergency plan and shall prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials a
clear and complete written statement of the emergency responsibilities of all
local agencies and officials and the disaster chain of command.
      (6)   The Director shall submit to the Advisory Council and to the County
Commissioners and County Council an annual report on the emergency management
program, including mitigation, preparedness, responses and recovery taken
during the previous year and planned and recommended for the year to come.
      (7)   The Director shall conduct an annual review of the county’s
disaster emergency plan with the Advisory Council and with additional local
officials as deemed necessary.
      (8)   The Director shall coordinate emergency and disaster planning and
response within the county with local officials and shall cooperate with
regional, state and federal agencies with regard to disaster prevention,
preparedness and response.
      (9)   The Director shall supervise the work of all employees of the
Department of Emergency Management and shall be responsible for the training
and supervision of all volunteers.
      (10)   The Director shall assure the proper functioning of emergency
communications throughout the county, including all cities and towns, as
prescribed in the communications portion of the plan.
      (11)   The Director shall take all other actions necessary or appropriate
to carry out the emergency preparedness and response program of the county.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 31.22  EMERGENCY POWERS, REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Special emergency powers and duties of principal executive officer;
declaration of local disaster emergency.
      (1)   In the event of actual or threatened disaster from any natural or
human-made cause affecting the county, the Board of County Commissioners as the
principal executive officer of the county may declare a local disaster
emergency pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29. The declaration shall be in writing,
indicate the nature of the disaster, indicate the area or areas to which the
state of emergency applies (which may include the entire county or only
designated parts thereof), shall be given prompt and general publicity and
shall be filed in the office of the County Auditor.
      (2)   A declaration of disaster emergency may not be continued or renewed
for more than seven days except with the consent of the Board of County
Commissioners.
      (3)   A declaration of a disaster emergency activates the response and
recovery aspects of all local disaster plans and authorizes the furnishing of
aid and assistance under the plans.
      (4)   A declaration of a local disaster shall not be necessary if the
governor, pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12, has already proclaimed a statement or
area-wide state of emergency including the county.
   (B)   Special emergency powers and duties of principal executive officer;
special meeting procedures.
      (1)   After a disaster emergency affecting the county has been declared
either by the Governor or by the County Commissioners, any meeting of the
County Commissioners shall be deemed an emergency meeting, may be held in any
convenient and available place and may be recessed for reasonable periods of
time as necessary and permitted by the circumstances.
      (2)   In the event that a quorum of the Board of Commissioners cannot be
assembled in person, the Board may convene a meeting by telephone.
      (3)   In the event that a quorum of the Board of Commissioners cannot be
assembled in person or by electronic means, the President of the Board shall be
entitled to act as the executive officer of the county. If the President is
unavailable or incapacitated, the remaining Commissioners shall designate one
of themselves to act as President of the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Special emergency powers of the Board of Commissioners. Following the
declaration of a disaster emergency, the Board of Commissioners may exercise
any of the following special powers:
      (1)   To the extent permitted by I.C. 10-14-3-31, request or commandeer
services or property in order to respond to the disaster emergency;
      (2)   Order the evacuation of persons from areas affected by a declared
disaster and may prescribe evacuation routes;
      (3)   Waive procedures and formalities otherwise required by law
pertaining to:
         (a)   The performance of public work;
         (b)   The entering into of contracts;
         (c)   The incurring of obligations;
         (d)   The employment of permanent and temporary workers;
         (e)   The use of volunteer workers;
         (f)   The rental of equipment;
         (g)   The purchase and distribution of supplies; materials and
facilities; and
         (h)   The appropriation and expenditure of public funds.
      (4)   Make available for duty the employees, property or equipment of the
county relating to firefighting, engineering, rescue, health services, police,
transportation, construction and similar services for emergency management and
disaster purposes within or outside the limits of the county;
      (5)   Assign any special emergency duties and functions to county
employees, departments and agencies; and
      (6)   Promulgate such emergency regulations as are necessary to carry out
the provisions of a disaster response plan, and those regulations shall be
effective when put into writing and filed in the office of the County Auditor
or, if filing is not possible, posted in three public locations within the
county.
   (D)   Application of provisions of section. This section shall apply
whenever:
      (1)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Governor pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-12; or
      (2)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the County Commissioners pursuant to I.C. 10-14-3-29 and division
(B) above.
(Ord. 2011-8, passed 12-5-2011)
CHAPTER 32:  OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
32.01   Litigation against employee
   
32.02   Reimbursement for mileage
   
32.03   Overtime and the like
   
32.04   Partially self-funded health insurance plan
   
32.05   Prosecuting attorney
   
32.06   Employees’ 457 Deferred Compensation Plan
   
32.07   Starting salaries for certain employees
   
32.08   Personnel policies
   
32.09   Emergency Management Agency Director
   
32.10   Blanket surety bond
   
32.11   Drug-free workplace
   
32.12   Conflict of interest policy
   
32.13   Restriction of access to information
§ 32.01  LITIGATION AGAINST EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   In the event that any litigation is instituted by any party against
any employee (as herein defined) of the county due to an action arising out of
his or her official duties on behalf of the county, the county shall indemnify
the employee for all costs of defending the employee in the litigation,
including, but not limited to, costs of reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs
and deposition and witness fees and, if the plaintiff prevails, any attorney’s
fees or costs for which the employee is liable.
   (B)   The term EMPLOYEE, for purposes of this section, means any person who
holds an elected or appointed position in the government of the county, or
whose salary or other remuneration is paid in whole or in part by any funds of
the county government.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall obligate the county to indemnify any
employee for any costs for litigation relating to the employee’s criminal acts
in office.
(Ord. 1984-1, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 32.02  REIMBURSEMENT FOR MILEAGE.
   Said county shall reimburse county employees the sum of $24 per diem and
mileage allowance at the state allowed rate for the attendance of pre-
authorized (authorized by department supervisors; i.e., elected officials) out-
of-town conferences.
(Res. passed 3-18-1991)
§ 32.03  OVERTIME AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Each county office, commission or appointed department administrator
who submits a budget under State Board of Account County Form 144 shall submit
a supplemental schedule that lists the classification of each salary or wage
position that is described in the proposed budget for purposes of complying
with the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act.
      (1)   Each position shall be classified as one of the following:
         (a)   Salary-management and supervisory, overtime is not applicable;
         (b)   Salary-only compensatory time allowed;
         (c)   Salary-with compensatory time or overtime pay;
         (d)   Salary-with overtime pay only; or
         (e)   Hourly wage-overtime pay only.
      (2)   Classification of positions is subject to the approval of the
County Council, pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3.
   (B)   Each elected official or appointed administrator shall file a
statement of its office policy concerning the administration of overtime or
compensatory time allowance indicating when and how the employees of that
respective office or department are entitled to overtime or compensatory time.
   (C)   Each county officer or appointed administrator shall submit a specific
overtime budget entry for each employment position which the county officer or
department administrator has obsignated as eligible for overtime payment.
   (D)   Two weeks before January 1 of each calendar year, each county officer
or appointed administrator shall submit to the Auditor of the county, a
complete employee roster that lists the employees and the salary or wage
classification of each employee as described in division (A) above. The officer
or administrator shall update the list as necessary during the year.
   (E)   Any overtime shall be authorized and approved before it is incurred.
Approval must be documented. One copy of this documentation shall be retained
by the elected official or appointed administrator, and one copy shall be sent
to the County Auditor’s office.
   (F)   No employee shall incur and the county shall not compensate an
employee for overtime unless said overtime has been approved in advance;
however, an officeholder or department head may retroactively approve overtime
if such overtime was required for an emergency, extenuating operational problem
or law enforcement circumstances.
   (G)   Any employee who incurs overtime on his or her own initiative and
without prior approval of the elected official or appointed administrator of
the county office or department is volunteering such time or voluntarily
contributing such service to the county. No employee is empowered on his or her
own or individually to incur payment or an obligation from the county for
wages.
   (H)   The Auditor of the county shall not pay for overtime service unless
the following documents are on file at the office at the Auditor of the county:
      (1)   The weekly of report of that employee properly shows that such
employee has worked more than a 40-hour week;
      (2)   The employee has been classified and designated as an overtime
employee by the elected official or appointed administrator under the roster
filed at the beginning of each calendar year; and
      (3)   Record of approval of overtime as required by division (E) above.
   (I)   If the Auditor finds any errors or incomplete information on weekly
reports, said reports shall be returned to the county official or appointed
administrator responsible for supervision of that employee. Accuracy of the
weekly work report is the responsibility of the county official or appointed
administrator and not the responsibility of the Auditor of the county.
   (J)   Employees who have been designated by their supervisor as eligible for
compensatory time shall receive compensatory time at a rate of one and one-half
hours for each hour that has been worked beyond 40 hours in each work week.
Approval for overtime is required in advance as provided in division (E) above,
whether compensation is to be in cash or in compensatory time. The county
official or appointed administrator shall grant, expend and administer
compensatory time according to the procedures and policies which that elected
official or appointed administrator has on file with the Auditor of the county.
Compensatory time accumulated and also compensatory time expended shall be
declared upon the weekly employee attendance report. The granting, accumulation
and expending of compensatory time is the responsibility of the county elected
official or appointed administrator of the employee.
(Council Ord. 1995-8, passed 1-2-1996)
§ 32.04  PARTIALLY SELF-FUNDED HEALTH INSURANCE PLAN.
   (A)   There is hereby created a non-reverting fund for the county’s
partially self-funded employee health insurance plan, which fund shall be known
as the “Special Non-Reverting Employee Health Insurance Fund”.
   (B)   The County Auditor is hereby directed to begin a transfer from the
various department budgets in an amount equal to the maximum claim level plus
an amount equal to the administrative costs for the third party administrator
or its successor in 1997, and thereafter.
   (C)   Upon completion of such transfer, the County Council further
authorizes the payment of the maximum claim level for 1997, and thereafter,
plus administrative costs to the third party administrator or its successor
from the special non-reverting fund established for purposes of administering
this plan. This section shall be in full force and effect upon its adoption.
(Council Ord. 1997-1, passed 2-27-1997)
§ 32.05  PROSECUTING ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The County Council does hereby consent for the prosecuting attorney
for the 69th Judicial Circuit, which served the county, to be designated as a
full-time prosecuting attorney as provided by statute.
   (B)   A copy of this consent shall be filed with the Circuit Court of the
69th Judicial Circuit and the Auditor of the state, pursuant to I.C. 33-39-6-6.
(Council Res. 1999-1, passed 5-18-1999)
§ 32.06  EMPLOYEES’ 457 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Commissioners hereby adopt the Decatur County Employees’ 457
Deferred Compensation Plan, to be administered and invested by One America Life
Insurance Company.
   (B)   The participation of the county and its employees in the State
Deferred Compensation Plan is hereby terminated, effective as of January 1,
2005.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-15-2004)
§ 32.07  STARTING SALARIES FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Ordinance repeal. Ord. 1999-2 and any other ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed as of December 31, 2008 at
11:59 p.m.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NEW EMPLOYEE.  A full-time county employee beginning their employment
after December 31, 2008.
      TARGET SALARY.  The top salary paid to an employee with the same job
category or classification as the new employee for the calendar year that the
new employee is hired.
   (C)   Initial salary of new employees. The initial salary of a new employee
shall be 4% less than the target salary.
   (D)   Pay increases for employees hired prior to or on June 15. Any new
employee hired prior to or on June 15 shall receive a pay increase equivalent
to 2% of the target salary as of January 1 of the following year. The new
employee shall receive an additional pay increase equivalent to 2% of the
target salary as of January 1 of the second year following the year of their
hiring. As a result, the new employee will receive a total pay increase
equivalent to 4% of the target salary.
   (E)   Pay increases for employees hired after June 15 but prior to or on
September l5. Any new employee hired after June 15 but prior to or on September
15 shall receive a pay increase equivalent to 1% of the target salary as of
January 1 of the following year and an additional pay increase equivalent to 1%
of the target salary as of the following June 15. The new employee shall
receive an additional pay increase equivalent to 2% of the target salary as of
January 1 of the second year following the year of their hiring. As a result,
the new employee will receive a total pay increase equivalent to 4% of the
target salary.
   (F)   Pay increases for employees hired after September 15 but prior to or
on December 31. Any new employee hired after September 15 but prior to or on
December 31 shall receive a pay increase equivalent to 2% of the target salary
as of January 1 of the year following the new employee’s first full year of
service. The new employee shall receive an additional pay increase equivalent
to 2% of the target salary as of January 1 of the second year following the new
employee’s first full year of service. As a result, the new employee will
receive a total pay increase equivalent to 4% of the target salary.
   (G)   Pay increases are in addition to other increases. The annual increases
set out above shall be in addition to any other pay increases passed by the
County Council.
   (H)   Employees transferring jobs. Any county employees transferring jobs
within the county government shall be credited with their time of service in
establishing their initial salary of their new position.
   (I)   Excluded persons. The employees of the County Highway Department, the
employees of the County Sheriff’s Department, part-time employees and elected
officials are specifically excluded from the provisions of this section.
   (J)   Headings. The headings or titles of the several divisions in this
section shall be solely for convenience of reference and shall not affect the
meaning, construction or effect of this section.
(Council Ord. 2008-4, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 32.08  PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The personnel policies of the county, and any and all amendments, are hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(Ord. 2012-02, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 2012-07, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 2013-12,
passed 11-18-2013; Ord. 2020-6, passed 7-20-2020)
§ 32.09  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY DIRECTOR.
   The County Council hereby amends the position description of the County
Emergency Management Agency Director to include the following: the current
Interim Director will be known as the Emergency Management Agency Director, and
will be paid on an hourly basis not to exceed more than 20 hours per week
during normal circumstances. An additional position referred to as Assistant
EMA Director will be compensated on an hourly basis not to exceed more than 20
hours per week during normal circumstances. The salary ordinance for county
will be amended to include these two positions in place of the current
position. In concurrence, we the undersigned agree that the salary ordinance
for the county be amended to include the above referenced positions.
(Council Res. 2012-2, passed 7-17-2012)
§ 32.10  BLANKET SURETY BOND.
   (A)   The Decatur County Council authorizes the Decatur County Auditor to
establish, as needed, a blanket surety bond or crime insurance policy to cover
all officers, employees, or person who are not covered under an individual
surety bond.
   (B)   The surety bond or crime insurance amounts will be in the amount
established by I.C. 5-4-1-18 or amounts higher as recommended by the State
Board of Accounts and authorized by the Decatur County Council.
   (C)   The Decatur County Council may establish surety bond or crime
insurance amounts higher than the state minimum if it is determined to be in
the best interest of Decatur County.
(Council Ord. 2016-4, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 32.11  DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE.
   (A)   Overview. The county makes a commitment to provide employees a safe
working environment, to ensure that employees, equipment and operating
practices comply with health and safety standards, and to maintain public
confidence in the county and its employees. Since the county values each
employee, the county offers employees assistance in dealing with alcohol and
drug abuse problems.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   The county requires all employees to report for work in a condition
that allows them to perform their duties in a safe and efficient manner.
Employees will not be permitted to work under the influence of alcohol or with
prohibited drugs in their systems thereby affecting job performance.
      (2)   Violation of any provision of this section will be considered just
cause for disciplinary action up to and including discharge, even for a first
offense. In addition, refusal to adhere to any part of the policy may be
considered an act of insubordination and also may lead to disciplinary action
up to and including discharge.
      (3)   This section and related procedures may be modified by the county
at any time in order to comply with any applicable federal, state or local laws
or to better serve the needs of the county.
   (C)   Prohibited drugs.
      (1)   Prohibited drugs are defined as illegal substances, including
controlled substances as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 U.S.C.
8120 and the Code of Federal Regulations (21 C.F.R. 1308.11-1308.15) and
prescription controlled substances which have not been prescribed by a licensed
physician or dentist for specific treatment purposes for the employee. Abuse of
prescription or over-the-counter drugs will also be treated as a substance
abuse problem under this section.
      (2)   This section prohibits the illegal use, sale, transfer,
distribution, possession, or unlawful manufacture of narcotics, drugs, or other
controlled substances while on the job or on county premises (including
vehicles used for county business). These include but are not limited to
marijuana, cocaine, crack, PCP, heroin, LSD, amphetamines, hallucinogens, and
barbiturates. Any illegal substances found on such premises will be turned over
to the state police and may lead to criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Alcohol.
      (1)   The use of alcohol on the job or on county premises is prohibited,
unless such use is non-abusive and is part of an authorized official event held
off county premises. The use of alcohol in vehicles used for county business is
strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Alcohol possession applies to all open or unsealed alcoholic
beverage containers. Such containers are not allowed on the job or on county
premises, unless their possession is part of an authorized official event.
Possession of such containers in vehicles used for county business is never
authorized.
   (E)   Reporting violations.
      (1)   Employees must as a condition of employment, abide by the terms of
this section and report any conviction to the county under a criminal drug
statute for violations occurring on or off county premises when conducting
county business. Report of a conviction must be made to the county within five
business days after the conviction. The county will then notify the appropriate
contracting officer within ten days after receiving notice from either the
employee or from another source. (These requirements are mandated by the Drug-
Free Workplace Act of 1988.)
      (2)   An employee who is involved with off the job illegal drug activity
may be considered in violation of this section. In determining whether
disciplinary action will be imposed for this activity, the county will consider
the circumstance of each incident, including but not limited to any adverse
effect the employee's actions may have on its customers, other employees, the
public, or the county's reputation and image.
      (3)   Any questions regarding the reporting of violations should be
directed to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (F)   Employee rehabilitation.
      (1)   Health maintenance is primarily a personal responsibility and it is
the individual's responsibility to correct unsatisfactory job performance or
behavioral problems caused by alcohol or drug abuse. In an effort to assist
employees, the county will provide various means for employees and their family
members to remain aware of the dangers of substance abuse in the workplace and
to overcome drug and alcohol related problems.
      (2)   Employees with a personal, alcohol or drug related problem are
encouraged to volunteer to participate in a approved rehabilitation program
upon referral from the Employee and Family Assistance Program, before work
performance becomes affected.
      (3)   Participation in a rehabilitation program will not be considered a
barrier to employment nor a cause for disciplinary action. Employees will not
be disciplined merely because of participation in a rehabilitation program or
excused from the disciplinary consequences of conduct which is in violation of
this section or any other county policies or job requirements.
      (4)   Any employee identified through a county investigation as having a
substance abuse problem also may not avoid disciplinary action by requesting to
participate in an approved rehabilitation program.
      (5)   Circumstances in each case will be evaluated to determine the
course of action to be taken (i.e., whether the employee will be offered the
opportunity to participate in a rehabilitation program and/or will be subject
to discipline.)
   (G)   Testing.
      (1)   The county will not ask employees to submit to random alcohol or
drug tests.
      (2)   Alcohol or drug tests may be required for employees in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   When unsatisfactory job performance or other employee behavior
is reasonably indicative of substance abuse;
         (b)   During and after participation in a drug or alcohol
rehabilitation program for a reasonable period of time as determined by the
county;
         (c)   When required by law.
      (3)   If a supervisor identifies an employee with a behavior pattern and/
or job performance reasonably indicative of substance abuse, the supervisor
(with the concurrence of the next level of supervision) may recommend that the
employee have a fitness for duty examination by a physician designated by the
county. The physician will determine whether a fitness for duty examination is
necessary and whether alcohol or drug tests will be required.
      (4)   Pre-employment drug testing is part of the pre-employment physical.
The method of testing will be determined by the county. Applicants who test
positive for prohibited drugs in their systems will not be offered employment.
Any questions regarding reapplication opportunities should be directed to the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2018-12, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 32.12  CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners establishes and adopts a Conflict of
Interest Policy.
   (B)   No officers or employees of the county shall neither solicit nor
accept gratuities, favors or anything of monetary value from consultants,
potential consultants or parties to subagreements, unless in accordance with
this policy.  The aforementioned prohibition does not include gratuities,
favors or anything of monetary value of $300.  Any financial interest under
$300 shall be considered not substantial in accordance with the Code of Federal
Regulations.
   (C)   This policy conforms to the standards set forth in the Code of Federal
Regulations and by the Indiana Department of Transportation.  A CONSULTANT is
defined as an individual or firm providing engineering and design related
services as a party to a contract with a recipient or subrecipient of federal
assistance.
(Ord. 2017-15, passed 8-21-2017)
§ 32.13  RESTRICTION OF ACCESS TO INFORMATION.
   (A)   A judge, as defined in I.C. 36-1-8.5-3, a law enforcement officer as
defined in I.C. 36-1-8.5-4, or a victim of domestic violence as defined in I.C.
36-1-8.5-6, each a covered person, may submit a written request to the County
Auditor to restrict their home addresses from the county's public property data
base web sites, as those web sites are defined in I.C. 36-1-8.5-5.
   (B)   The form of the written request to restrict access shall be as
follows:
APPLICATION TO RESTRICT ACCESS TO HOME ADDRESS
      I hereby certify that I am a "covered person" as defined in Indiana Code
36-1-8.5-2 because I am a (check one):
   _____ judge as defined in I.C. 36-1-8.5-3,
   _____ law enforcement officer as defined in I.C. 36-1-8.5-4, or
   _____ victim of domestic violence as defined in I.C. 36-1-8.5-6.
      Upon request, I will promptly provide to the Auditor of Decatur County
any information reasonably requested to verify my standing as a covered person.
I understand that access to my home address may not be restricted until such
information is provided.
      I have read Decatur County's policy restricting access to home addresses,
and acknowledge my understanding of that policy.
      By completing and submitting this Application, I am requesting that
access to my home address be restricted on the County's public property data
based web sites.
   Date: ____________________
   _________________________
   (Signature)
   Print name: ______________________________________________
   Home Address:   ___________________________________________
            ___________________________________________
   Parcel #:__________
   Parcel #: __________
   Parcel #:__________
   Parcel #:__________
   (C)   The county shall restrict access to the home address of a covered
person until the covered person submits a written request to the County to
allow public access to his or her home address on the County's public property
data base web sites.
   (D)   The form of the written request to allow access shall be as follows:
APPLICATION TO ALLOW ACCESS TO HOME ADDRESS
      I hereby certify that I am a "covered person" as defined in Indiana Code
36-1-8.5-2 because I am a (check one):
   _____ judge as defined in I.C. 36-1-8.5-3,
   _____ law enforcement officer as defined in I.C. 36-1-8.5-4, or
   _____ victim of domestic violence as defined in I.C. 36-1-8.5-6.
      I have previously submitted a written request to restrict access to my
home address on the County's public property data base web sites. I now wish to
withdraw that request and allow access to my home address on the County's
public property data based web sites.
      I have read Decatur County's policy restricting access to home addresses,
and acknowledge my understanding of that policy.
      By completing and submitting this Application, I am requesting that
access to my home address be allowed on the County's public property data based
web sites.
   Date: ____________________
   _________________________
   (Signature)
   Print name: ______________________________________________
   Home Address:   ___________________________________________
            ___________________________________________
   Parcel #:__________
   Parcel #: __________
   Parcel #:__________
   Parcel #:__________
   (E)   The fee to be charged a covered person for each parcel described in an
application to restrict access shall be the sum of ___________ , which shall be
collected by the County Auditor at the time a written request is made and
deposited into the county's general fund.
   (F)   If, after submitting a written request to restrict access to home
address the covered person obtains a change of name and notifies the county in
writing of the name change, the county shall prevent a search by the general
public of the county's public property data base web sites from disclosing or
otherwise associating the covered person's home address with the covered
person's former name and new name.
   (G)   A written request, notification of name change, or any other
information submitted to the county by a covered person is confidential under
I.C. 5-14-3-4(a).
   (H)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8.5-12, a county may not be held civilly liable
for failure to timely restrict access to home addresses unless the county's act
or omission constitutes gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct.
(Ord. 2020-9, passed 9-8-2020)
CHAPTER 33:  TAX AND FINANCE
Section
General Finance
   
33.001   Jury duty; payment
   
33.002   Transport for autopsies
   
33.003   Personal property taxes; delinquency
   
33.004   Room and board rates; jail
   
33.005   Purchasing agents; policies
   
33.006   Monitoring funds; pass-through entity
   
33.007   Deposit of late payment fees
   
33.008   Use of existing cumulative capital development fund
   
33.009   Unpaid bank check collection program
   
33.010   CAGIT funds; Solid Waste Management District
   
33.011   Deduction; assessed value of inventory
   
33.012   Health care co-payments; persons confined to jail
   
33.013   Meal allowances to precinct election officers
   
33.014   Payment of certain claims in advance of allowance
   
33.015   Credit cards/store cards
Funds
   
33.030   Non-reverting fund; Parks and Recreation Board
   
33.031   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
33.032   County District Solid Waste Management Fund
   
33.033   Drug-Free Community Fund
   
33.034   Inmate Phone Fund
   
33.035   County Corrections Fund
   
33.036   Non-reverting fund; Animal Control Board
   
33.037   Non-reverting fund; Emergency Management Department
   
33.038   Non-reverting fund; Westport Covered Bridge
   
33.039   Rainy Day Fund
   
33.040   Sales Disclosure Fund
   
33.041   Identification Security Protection Fund
   
33.042   Criminal Investigation Fund
   
33.043   Infraction Deferral Fund
   
33.044   Recorder’s Enhanced Access Fund
   
33.045   Vehicle Inspection Fund
   
33.046   Law Enforcement Fund
Tax
   
33.055   Tax on gross retail lodging income
   
33.056   Economic development income tax
Fees
   
33.070   Enhanced emergency telephone system; fee
   
33.071   Administrative fee; foreclosure sales
   
33.072   Fees for copying maps and related documents
   
33.073   Sex/violent offender registration fees
   
33.074   Registration of motor vehicles; excise tax
   
33.075   Supplemental recording fee; Recorder’s office
   
33.076   Fee for real property endorsements
   
33.077   Local service fee
   
33.078   Department of Health fees
   
33.079   Processing fee for mobile home title transfers and moving permits
   
33.080   Vehicle inspection fee
   
33.081   Accident report fee
   
33.082   911 audio and report fee
GENERAL FINANCE
§ 33.001  JURY DUTY; PAYMENT.
   (A)   Each person serving on jury duty shall be paid the sum of $35 per day,
plus mileage expenses as allowed by state law.
   (B)   Each person who appears for jury duty but who does not serve shall be
paid the sum of $17.50 per day, plus mileage expenses as allowed by state law.
(Ord. 1988-8, passed 11-7-1988)
§ 33.002  TRANSPORT FOR AUTOPSIES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the county authorizes the county coroner
to use a properly equipped vehicle and suitable driver to transport bodies for
autopsy to the Indiana University Medical Center or such other facility in
Marion County, Indiana as deemed appropriate by the coroner.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners authorizes payment of the sum of $200 for
transport of a body to the location for autopsy. This amount may be changed by
the Commissioners when necessary. No additional payment shall be authorized for
transportation after an autopsy has been completed.
   (C)   The coroner may use a vehicle owned by him or her to transport a body,
or he or she may secure the services of another person. The person responsible
for transport shall file a claim with the Auditor for payment.
   (D)   This written resolution confirms the procedure previously authorized
by the Commissioners and shall be effective as of January 1, 1995.
(Res. passed 4-17-1995)
§ 33.003  PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES; DELINQUENCY.
   The Treasurer of the county is directed to give written notice by regular
mail and by publication in the local newspapers, to those persons or entities
that are delinquent pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-23-9 in payment of personal property
taxes.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 33.004  ROOM AND BOARD RATES; JAIL.
   (A)   The county hereby adopts the provisions of I.C. 36-2-13-15.
   (B)   A person who is any of the following shall reimburse the county for
the costs described in this section:
      (1)   Sentenced under I.C. 35-50 for a felony or a misdemeanor;
      (2)   Subject to lawful detention as defined in I.C. 35-31.5-2-186, for a
period of more than 72 hours;
      (3)   Not a member of a family that makes less than 150% of the federal
income poverty level; and
      (4)   Not detained as a child subject to the jurisdiction of a juvenile
court.
   (C)   A person described in division (B) above shall reimburse the county in
an amount not to exceed:
      (1)   The lesser of: the per diem amount specified under division (D)
below; or $30, multiplied by each day or part of a day that the person is
lawfully detained in a county jail or lawfully detained under I.C. 35-33-11-
3 for more than six hours;
      (2)   The direct cost of investigating whether the person is indigent;
and
      (3)   The cost of collecting the amount for which the person is liable
under this section.
   (D)   The County Council hereby fixes the sum of $30 as the per diem amount
for reimbursement, based upon the average daily cost of housing a person in the
county jail. If the county transfers a person to another county for detention
or to the Department of Correction under I.C. 35-33-11-3, the per diem shall
equal the per diem charged to the county under I.C. 35-33-11-5.
   (E)   The County Sheriff shall collect the amounts due under this section in
the following manner: Upon a person’s release, he or she shall be given a
written statement of the reimbursement due and owing under this section.
Payment in full shall be made at the county jail within 90 days after the
person’s release. If the Sheriff does not collect the amount due, the County
Attorney may collect the amount due.
   (F)   All amounts collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited in
the non-reverting County Prisoner Reimbursement Fund.
      (1)   Money in that fund shall not revert to any other fund at the end of
each fiscal year. Any amount earned from the investment of amounts in that fund
becomes part of the fund.
      (2)   Upon appropriation by the County Council, amounts in the County
Prisoner Reimbursement Fund may be used only for the operation, construction,
repair, remodeling, enlarging and equipment of the county jail, but may not be
used for salaries, wages or other personal service expenses.
(Council Ord. 1998-7, passed 6-15-1998)
§ 33.005  PURCHASING AGENTS; POLICIES.
   (A)   Purchasing agency. The purchasing agency for the county, the
governmental body authorized to enter into contracts, is the Board of County
Commissioners, as authorized by I.C. 36-2-2-2.
   (B)   Purchasing agents. The following purchasing agents are designated, who
are authorized by the Board of County Commissioners to act as agents for the
County Commissioners in administering their duties as the county’s purchasing
agency:
      (1)   Each elected county officeholder;
      (2)   The Judges of the Circuit and Superior Courts, or their designee;
      (3)   The prosecuting attorney or his or her designee;
      (4)   The County Highway Superintendent;
      (5)   The Director of the Area Plan Commission and Building Department;
      (6)   The Administrative Officer of the County Health Department;
      (7)   The Chief Probation Officer or Manager of the Probation Department;
      (8)   The Manager of the County Extension Office;
      (9)   The Administrative Assistant to the Board of Commissioners;
      (10)   The Veterans Service Officer;
      (11)   The Superintendent of the Parks Department; and
      (12)   Such additional individuals as may be designated by resolution of
the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Purchasing policies.
      (1)   These policies apply to the purchase of all office supplies,
materials, equipment and furnishings.
      (2)   For expenditures up to $499 for each item or group of similar
items, each purchasing agent may procure items for his or her agency. For
expenditures over $100 per item or group of similar items, the purchasing agent
must obtain two price quotes and retain them with other purchasing records.
      (3)   For expenditures of $500 or more, the purchasing agent must submit
to the County Commissioners, prior to ordering, a description of the item and
two price quotes. These purchases will be reviewed for purposes of avoiding
unnecessary duplication of purchases, coordinating among offices, and achieving
efficiency and savings in county purchases.
      (4)   The County Highway Superintendent may purchase supplies and
services for the repair and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, up to
$2,500, without prior approval of the commissioners.
      (5)   As required by I.C. 5-22-15-21, purchasing agents shall purchase
supplies manufactured in the United States unless it is determined that any one
of the following apply.
         (a)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities.
         (b)   The price of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured outside the United States.
         (c)   The quality of the supplies is substantially less than the
quality of comparably priced available supplies manufactured outside the United
States.
         (d)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is
not in the public interest.
   (D)   Revocation. The Board of Commissioners may revoke the designation of
any purchasing agent who intentionally fails to follow the purchasing policies
of this section. The Board of Commissioners may deny a claim for payment based
upon a purchase if there has been an intentional violation of the policies of
this section.
(Ord. 1998-14, passed 12-28-1998)
§ 33.006  MONITORING FUNDS; PASS-THROUGH ENTITY.
   (A)   Prior to submitting a grant application, the County Auditor shall meet
with the subrecipient’s fiscal officer and with any grant administrator to
review the procedural requirements of the grant.
   (B)   Upon receiving notice of approval of a grant, the Auditor,
subrecipient’s fiscal agent and grant administrator will meet again and review
the requirements of the grant agreement, laws and regulations, and determine
how the subrecipient plans to comply with all requirements.
   (C)   The County Auditor shall assign one employee of the Auditor’s office
to monitor subrecipients and process claims. That employee shall meet at least
quarterly with the subrecipient’s fiscal agent and shall review the
subrecipient’s records concerning the grant, to verify that all regulations are
being followed.
(Res. 1999-1, passed 5-17-1999)
§ 33.007  DEPOSIT OF LATE PAYMENT FEES.
   (A)   The Auditor of the county is directed to deposit 40% of late payment
fees collected under the local court rule to the Clerk’s Record Perpetuation
Fund established under I.C. 33-37-5-2 and 60% of late payment fees to the
County General Fund.
   (B)   This section applies to late payment fees distributed by the County
Auditor after September 30, 2001.
(Council Ord. 2001-7, passed 8-21-2001)
§ 33.008  USE OF EXISTING CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   The Cumulative Capital Development Fund of the county may be used for any
purpose for which property taxes may be imposed under the authority of all
statutes enumerated in I.C. 36-9-14.5-2.
(Ord. 2001-6, passed 9-17-2001)
§ 33.009  UNPAID BANK CHECK COLLECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   (1)   The prosecuting attorney, 69th Judicial Circuit, who serves the
county may establish an “Unpaid Bank Check Collection Program” (“Program”)
through the office of prosecuting attorney in which the payee or holder or an
unpaid or dishonored bank check who is requesting criminal prosecution of the
maker of the unpaid or dishonored check may as follows:
         (a)   Authorize the office of prosecuting attorney to give statutory
notice to the maker of the unpaid bank check that enables the maker of the
unpaid check to redeem the unpaid check as a defense to criminal prosecution as
provided under I.C. 35-43-5-5(e); and
         (b)   Designate and authorize the office of prosecuting attorney, to
charge, collect and retain a collection service fee in the amount as allowed by
I.C. 35-43-5-5(e).
      (2)   This section shall not restrict or limit in any way the lawful
power or discretion of the prosecuting attorney in performing duties as
prosecuting attorney. This section shall be construed as enlarging the power
and discretion of the prosecuting attorney in the county, which includes the
power and discretion to waive collection of any fees, or to negotiate or settle
any issues of payment.
   (B)   Upon implementation of the program, the office of prosecuting attorney
shall establish and maintain a special trust checking account for deposit of
all funds received under the program. From this checking account, the office of
prosecuting attorney shall disburse the lawfully due and correct amount of
payment that the maker of the check owes to the check payee or holder.
      (1)   This account shall be processed and administered according to State
Board of Accounts standards for public funds.
      (2)   Periodically, and not less than monthly, the office of prosecuting
attorney shall deliver to the Treasurer of the county the accumulated of unpaid
check collection services fees charged and retained by the office of
prosecuting attorney. This amount shall be held by the Treasurer of the county
in an account hereafter established, known as and designated as the “Decatur
County Check Enforcement Fund”.
   (C)   Funds held in the County Check Enforcement Fund may be expended at
anytime upon request by the prosecuting attorney and with the approval and by
lawful appropriation by the County Council, as provided by law.
   (D)   This section shall be effective and full force January 1, 2002 and
continuing thereafter indefinitely.
(Ord. 2001-9, passed 12-3-2001)
§ 33.010  CAGIT FUNDS; SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.
   The Council hereby approves distributions of county adjusted gross income
tax funds to the County Solid Waste Management District. This section will
remain in effect until the County Council revokes or rescinds it.
(Council Res. passed 4-30-2002)
§ 33.011  DEDUCTION; ASSESSED VALUE OF INVENTORY.
   (A)   A deduction equal to 100% of the assessed value of inventory applies
to the inventory located in the county beginning with the 2005 assessment year.
   (B)   The County Auditor is hereby authorized and directed to provide a
certified copy of this section to the department of local government finance
and to each township assessor prior to February 1, 2005.
   (C)   State law allows the Council to increase the current rate of the
county economic development income tax (“CEDIT”) by up to 0.25% for the sole
purpose of mitigating the increased ad valorem property taxes on homesteads
resulting from the deduction of the assessed value of inventory in the county.
   (D)   The current rate for CEDIT in the county is 0.25%, and it is necessary
to increase this rate by 0.08% to mitigate the increased ad valorem property
taxes on homesteads resulting from the deduction of the assessed value of
inventory in the county.
   (E)   The county imposes the county economic development income tax on the
county taxpayers of the county. The county economic development income tax is
imposed at a rate of 0.33% on the county taxpayers of the county. This tax
takes effect July 1 of this year.
   (F)   Beginning with the 2005 assessment year and continuing each year
thereafter, the certified distribution described in state law shall be used to
provide for allocated increased homestead credits as provided for in state law
to offset the effect on homesteads resulting from the 100% deduction for
inventory. The increased percentage of the homestead credit shall be determined
by the County Auditor as specified in division (G) below.
   (G)   For the 2005 assessment year and continuing each year thereafter, the
County Auditor shall determine the following:
      (1)   The amount of the certified distribution that is available to
provide an increased homestead credit percentage for the year; and
      (2)   An increased percentage of homestead credit for each taxing
district in the county that allocates to the taxing district an amount of
increased homestead credits that bears the same proportion to the amount
determined under division (G)(1) above that the amount of inventory assessed
value deducted under I.C. 6-1.1-12-42 in the taxing district for the
immediately preceding year’s assessment date bears to the total inventory
assessed value deducted I.C. 6-1.1-32-42 in the county for the immediately
preceding year’s assessment date.
   (H)   The County Auditor shall retain from the payments of the county’s
certified distribution an amount equal to the revenue lost, of any, due to the
increase of the homestead credit within the county. The money shall be
distributed to the civil taxing units and school corporations of the county as
if the money were from property tax collections and in such a manner that no
civil taxing unit or school corporation will suffer a net revenue loss because
of the allowance of an increased homestead credit.
(Council Ord. 2004-1, passed 3-30-2004)
§ 33.012  HEALTH CARE CO-PAYMENTS; PERSONS CONFINED TO JAIL.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, a person confined to the county
jail shall be required to make a co-payment for health care services as
follows:
      (1)   Medical care: $15;
      (2)   Dental care: 15;
      (3)   Eye care: $15;
      (4)   Any other health care related service: 15; and
      (5)   Prescription drugs: actual co-pay. Maximum $15 per prescription or
refill.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a person confined to the county jail
who maintains a policy of insurance from a private company covering the
services listed above, or one who is willing to pay for his or her own medical
care.
   (C)   Any person confined to the county jail shall not be required to make a
co-payment under this section if:
      (1)   The person does not have funds in the person’s commissary or trust
account at the time the service is provided;
      (2)   The person does not have funds in the person’s commissary or trust
account within 60 days after the service is provided;
      (3)   The service is provided in an emergency;
      (4)   The service is provided as a result of an injury received in the
jail; or
      (5)   The service is provided at the request of the Sheriff or Jail
Administrator.
   (D)   Money collected under this section shall be deposited into a fund from
which payments for inmates’ medical care are made.
   (E)   The medical care expenses of a person committed to the county jail by
another county are the responsibility of the committing county. The medical
care expenses of a person committed to the county jail by the Department of
Corrections are the responsibility of the Department of Corrections.
   (F)   Rules for implementing this section must be approved by the Board of
Commissioners of the county.
(Ord. 2004-4, passed 4-19-2004)
§ 33.013  MEAL ALLOWANCES TO PRECINCT ELECTION OFFICERS.
   Each precinct election officer, including each inspector, judge, poll clerk,
assistant poll clerk and election Sheriff, if a Sheriff is appointed, shall be
paid the sum of $25 as a meal allowance pursuant to I.C. 3-6-6-31(b). The meal
allowance shall be paid at the same time that compensation is paid to the
precinct election officer for the performance of their duties on election day.
(Ord. 2012-6, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 33.014  PAYMENT OF CERTAIN CLAIMS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The County Auditor may make claim payments in advance of Board
allowance for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance of service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State or federal taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the County Auditor.
   (C)   The Board of County Commissioners shall review and allow the claim at
its next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of the
expense.
(Ord. 2013-5, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 33.015  CREDIT CARDS/STORE CARDS.
   (A)   Oversight of credit card/store card use. The County Commissioners are
responsible for issuing, accounting for, monitoring, and generally overseeing
compliance with this policy. All credit card applications/store card
applications must be approved and issued by the Commissioners.
   (B)   Requests for credit cards/store cards. Requests for credit cards and
store cards by county employees, including elected office holders, must be
submitted in writing to the Auditor. The request must identify the person to
whom the credit card/store card will be issued and the amount charged may not
exceed the sum of $2,000. The credit card/store card shall be issued in the
county office name, the authorized user.
   (C)   Review of credit card/store card applications. Upon receiving a
request for a credit card/store card from an employee, the Auditor shall
present the request to the Commissioners for review. The Commissioners shall
approve or deny each credit card/store card request.
   (D)   Persons authorized to use credit cards/store cards. A card issued to
an employee is to be used by that employee only. The Auditor or the
Commissioners may, at any time and without notice to the employee and with or
without cause, cancel the credit card/store card.
   (E)   Recordkeeping. The Auditor shall maintain a list of all credit cards/
store cards issued to county employees. Each employee shall sign a form
acknowledging receipt of the credit card/store card, and that the employee has
received, read, and understands this policy.
   (F)   Authorized uses. County credit cards/store cards are the property of
the county, and may be used only for the purchase of goods or services for the
official business of the county. Personal use of county credit cards/store
cards is expressly prohibited, even if the employee later reimburses the county
for purchases made for personal use.
   (G)   Identification as government employees. Employees who use a credit
card/store card have a duty to present themselves as government employees at
the point of purchase and present sales tax exemption form ST 105 to ensure
that the county is not charged state sales tax.
   (H)   Documentation of purchases. County employees who use a credit card/
store card shall submit the vendor's itemized receipt to the Auditor, and a
voucher signed by the employee's department head indicating that the purchase
should be approved for payment, the nature of the official business that
required the transaction, the credit card/store card account number, and the
budget line item to which the transaction is to be charged. The credit card/
store card cannot be used to bypass the county's accounting system.
   (I)   Review of credit card/store card statements. The Auditor's office
shall review each credit card/store card statement and all documents submitted
by county employees to ensure that transactions comply with this policy. Any
transactions that are not documented with an itemized credit card/store card
receipt and a signed voucher shall be immediately investigated. Transactions
that do not appear to comply with this policy shall be reported to the
Commissioners.
   (J)   Approval for payment. The Commissioners shall not approve a payment to
the entity issuing the credit card/store card until all transactions have been
verified.
   (K)   Payment of credit cards/store cards. Each month, the balance due on
the credit cards/store cards for all verified transactions shall be paid when
due to avoid the assessment of interest and late charges.
   (L)   Lost or stolen credit cards/store cards. An employee who is issued a
credit card/store card is responsible for its protection and custody. If a
credit card/store card is lost or stolen, the official or employee shall notify
the Auditor as soon as possible. The Auditor shall contact the entity issuing
the lost or stolen credit card/store card immediately and request it be
canceled.
   (M)   Return of credit card/store card upon termination of employment. An
employee issued a credit card/store card shall return the credit card/store
card to the Auditor upon termination of his or her employment or service with
the county.
   (N)   Responsibility for credit card/store card misuse. County employees
shall have personal liability for the payment of transactions that do not
comply with this policy.
(Res. 2017-7, passed 9-5-2017)
FUNDS
§ 33.030  NON-REVERTING FUND; PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   On June 6, 1972, the Council adopted an “Ordinance Establishing a Non-
Reverting Operating Fund for the Decatur County Parks and Recreation Board”
under the authority of Acts of 1955, Chapter 311, § 220, as amended, now I.C.
36-10-3-20.
   (B)   The Code provides that the Council may provide “a special non-
reverting capital fund for the purpose of acquiring land or making specific
capital improvements”. Therefore, the Council now adopts this section amending
its ordinance of June 6, 1972, to provide further as follows:
      (1)   The purposes for which funds may be expended from the non-reverting
fund shall be limited to acquiring land or making capital improvements for
athletic or recreational facilities; and
      (2)   No funds may be expended or encumbered except on prior approval of
the County Council pursuant to request by the Joint Park and Recreation Board
of Greensburg and the county.
(Council Ord. 1981-1, passed 1-13-1981)
§ 33.031  CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   The County Commissioners passed an ordinance establishing the
Cumulative Capital Development Fund pursuant I.C. 36-9-14.5.
   (B)   An ordinance to re-establish a Cumulative Capital Development Fund
with a tax rate of $0.10 for 1987 pay 1988, $0.10 for 1988 pay 1989 and $0.10
for 1989 pay 1990. The fund will be used for the Cumulative Building Fund for
County Buildings and Cumulative Bridge Fund.
(Ord. 1987-2, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 33.032  COUNTY DISTRICT SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is established a fund to be known as the County District Solid
Waste Management Fund.
   (B)   All solid waste disposal fees remitted to the district shall be
deposited in this fund.
   (C)   Money in this fund may be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   To pay expenses of administering the fund; and
      (2)   To pay costs associated with the development and implementation of
the district’s Solid Waste Management Plan.
   (D)   This fund shall be administered by the fiscal officer of the district.
Money in this fund which is not currently needed for the purposes set forth
above may be invested in the same manner as other county funds may be invested.
Interest that accrues from these investments shall be deposited in the fund.
(Res. passed 4-4-1991)
§ 33.033  DRUG-FREE COMMUNITY FUND.
   The Citizens Advisory Committee on the Drug Free Community Fund, established
on October 7, 1991, shall be authorized to form a plan for allocating all money
in that Fund which has accumulated since July 1, 1990.
(Ord. passed 12-2-1991)
§ 33.034  INMATE PHONE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established an “Inmate Phone Fund” for the county
jail.
   (B)   The Sheriff of the county is authorized to spend all commissions
received from the use of inmate telephones for the expenses of the County
Sheriff’s Department.
   (C)   No budget appropriation shall be required for the expenditures of
these funds.
   (D)   The Sheriff shall file claims in the same manner as all other county
funds are required to do for expenditure of these funds.
(Council Ord. 1995-2, passed 3-15-1995)
§ 33.035  COUNTY CORRECTIONS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the “Decatur County Corrections Fund”.
   (B)   The county elects to receive deposits from the State Department of
Corrections for the county corrections fund pursuant to state law.
   (C)   The County Corrections Fund shall be administered by the County
Council for only the purposes allowed by law, for funding the operation of the
county’s jail, jail programs or other local correctional facilities. Any
amounts remaining in this fund at the end of each year shall not revert to any
other fund but shall remain in the County Corrections Fund.
   (D)   The county elects to receive deposits from the Department of
Corrections at Level 2 funding.
(Ord. 1999-2, passed 2-15-1999)
§ 33.036  NON-REVERTING FUND; ANIMAL CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a non-reverting fund for donations of gifts of
money or property to the Joint Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control Board,
which fund shall be known as the “Special Non-Reverting Animal Control Board
Fund”. Said fund shall be in the custody of the County Auditor.
   (B)   Monies and/or property may be withdrawn from the fund only upon a
voucher signed by the President and Secretary of the Joint Greensburg-Decatur
County Animal Control Board.
   (C)   The County Auditor shall not be responsible for the Board’s
application or disposition of the monies or property withdrawn from the fund.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect on the day of July,
1999.
(Council Ord. 1999-3, passed 7-20-1999)
§ 33.037  NON-REVERTING FUND; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a non-reverting fund for donations of gifts of
money or property to the County Emergency Management Department, which fund
shall be known as the “Emergency Management Donations Fund”. Said fund shall be
kept by the County Auditor.
   (B)   Monies and/or property may be withdrawn from the Fund only upon a
voucher signed by the department head of the County Emergency Management
Department.
   (C)   The County Auditor shall not be responsible for the application or
disposition of the monies or property withdrawn from the fund by the Emergency
Management Department.
(Council Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-15-2000)
§ 33.038  NON-REVERTING FUND; WESTPORT COVERED BRIDGE.
   (A)   A non-reverting fund is hereby created for donations of gifts of money
or property for the maintenance and repair of the Westport Covered Bridge,
which fund shall be known as the “Westport Covered Bridge Donations Fund”. Said
fund shall be kept by the County Auditor.
   (B)   Monies and/or property may be withdrawn from the fund upon approval of
claims by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Council Ord. 2002-2, passed 2-4-2002)
§ 33.039  RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   The Rainy Day Fund is established.
   (B)   Supplemental distributions of county economic development income tax,
pursuant to state law, and supplemental distributions of county adjusted gross
income tax, pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-21.1 shall be deposited into the Rainy
Day Fund.
   (C)   The Rainy Day Fund is subject to the same appropriation process as
other funds that receive tax money. Before making an appropriation from the
Rainy Day Fund, the County Council shall make a finding that the proposed use
of the Rainy Day Fund is consistent with the intent of the fund as required by
I.C. 36-1-8-5.1(b).
   (D)   Interest earned on monies in the Rainy Day Fund shall be retained by
the Rainy Day Fund.
(Council Ord. 2004-3, passed 7-20-2004)
§ 33.040  SALES DISCLOSURE FUND.
   (A)   The County Sales Disclosure Fund is established.
   (B)   As provided by I.C. 6-1.1-5.5-4, the county’s portion of the revenue
collected by the County Auditor from the fees paid by persons filing sales
disclosure forms shall be deposited into the County Sales Disclosure Fund.
   (C)   As provided by I.C. 6-1.1-5.5-4, the county’s portion of the revenue
collected by the County Auditor from penalties paid for failing to properly
file sales disclosure forms shall be deposited into the County Sales Disclosure
Fund.
   (D)   Money in the County Sales Disclosure Fund may only be expended for the
following purposes as provided by I.C. 6-1.1-5.5-4.5:
      (1)   Administration of I.C. 6-1.1-5.5 (use of sales disclosure forms);
      (2)   Verification of the information contained on a sales disclosure
form;
      (3)   Training of assessing officials; or
      (4)   Purchasing computer software or hardware for a property record
system.
   (E)   The County Council shall appropriate the money in the County Sales
Disclosure Fund for the purposes stated in division (D) above based on requests
by assessing officials in the county.
(Council Ord. 2004-4, passed 11-23-2004)
§ 33.041  IDENTIFICATION SECURITY PROTECTION FUND.
   (A)   Fund. Pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7.5, the County Identification Security
Protection Fund (“fund”) is hereby established as of January 1, 2006.
   (B)   Administration. The fund shall be administered by the County Recorder.
   (C)   Appropriations. Expenditures from the Fund shall be subject to
appropriation by the County Council.
   (D)   Deposits. The Fund shall consist of the fees deposited in the fund by
the County Recorder pursuant to I.C. 36-2-7.5-6.
   (E)   Use of fund. The County Recorder may use money in the fund only to
purchase, upgrade, implement or maintain redacting technology used in the
office of the County Recorder.
   (F)   Reversion. As provided by I.C. 36-2-7.5-11, money in the fund does not
revert to the County General Fund.
   (G)   Governing law. The fund shall be governed by and subject to the
provisions of I.C. 36-2-7.5, as amended.
(Ord. 2005-11, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 33.042  CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION FUND.
   (A)   The Auditor shall create a special account and fund designated as the
“Decatur County Criminal Investigation Fund”, which shall be separate from the
County General Fund, and which shall be a continuous, non-reverting fund.
   (B)   All cash proceeds from asset forfeitures and the proceeds from the
sale or liquidation of asset forfeitures from any source, deposited in this
fund including voluntary surrender fees, reimbursement or restitution for cost
of law enforcement activities, asset forfeitures under I.C. 34-24, as now
enacted or hereafter amended, collected by the prosecuting attorney serving the
county that are not required to be deposited into the General Fund or as
otherwise required by law.
   (C)   Money in this fund shall be used to pay for investigation and
prosecution of criminal activities in the county, as requested by the
prosecuting attorney unless otherwise prohibited by statute. Distribution from
this fund shall be subject to appropriation as provided by I.C. 36-2-5-2.
(Council Ord. 2007-11, passed 8-21-2007)
§ 33.043  INFRACTION DEFERRAL FUND.
   (A)   The Auditor of the county shall create a special account and fund
designated as the “Decatur County Infraction Deferral Fund”, which shall be
separate from the County General Fund, and which shall be a continuous, non-
reverting fund.
   (B)   This fund shall receive all fees and payments as provided for such
fund by I.C. 34-28-5-1 and all distributions from such fund shall be made by
appropriation as allowed by I.C. 33-37-8-6, as it now exists or as hereafter
amended.
(Council Ord. 2008-06, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 33.044  RECORDER’S ENHANCED ACCESS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the County Recorder Enhanced Access Fund
No. (i.e., the “Fund”) to receive those fees collected by said Recorder for the
above-described provision of enhanced public access to public records under
said Recorder’s charge.
   (B)   Be it further ordained that the Fund shall be a dedicated fund and the
monies deposited therein shall be used: for the replacement, improvement and
expansion of equipment used to maintain the County Recorder’s document indexing
system upon which enhanced access depends; and/or for the reimbursement of
operating expenses incurred in providing enhanced access to public information
by the County Recorder’s office.
(Council Ord. 2011-7, passed 10-18-2011)
§ 33.045  VEHICLE INSPECTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Vehicle Inspection Fund for the Decatur
County Sheriff’s Office.
   (B)   The Sheriffs Office shall deposit all funds collected for VINs into
this account.
   (C)   The Sheriff of Decatur County is authorized to spend all commissions
received from the fee charged for the state required vehicle identification
number inspections for the expenses of the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (D)   The Decatur County Council must appropriate the money from the
Inspection Fund only for law enforcement purposes.
   (E)   The Sheriff shall file claims in the same manner as all other county
funds are required to do for the expenditure of these funds.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 33.046  LAW ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a "Law Enforcement" fund for the Decatur
County Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   This fund will be funded as a subcategory of the Sheriff’s Commissary
Fund.
   (C)   The funds shall be used to fund activities to support and supplement
the pursuit, apprehension, and prosecution of individuals involved in
racketeering or illegal drug activity, including but not limited to the
purchase of information, contraband, articles, or other items which will aid in
criminal investigations.
   (D)   The Sheriff shall file claims in the same manner as all other county
funds are required to do for expenditure of these funds.
(Ord. 2019-12, passed 10-22-2019)
TAX
§ 33.055  TAX ON GROSS RETAIL LODGING INCOME.
   (A)   There is hereby levied a tax on every person engaged in the business
of renting or furnishing, for periods of less than 30 days, any room or rooms,
lodgings or accommodations in any: hotel; motel; boat motel; inn; college or
university memorial union; college or university residence hall or dormitory;
or tourist cabin; located in the county.
   (B)   This tax shall not apply to gross income received in a transaction in
which:
      (1)   A student rents lodgings in a college or university residence hall
while that student participates in a course of study for which the student
receives college credit from a college or university located in the county; or
      (2)   A person rents a room, lodging or accommodations for a period of 30
days or more.
   (C)   The tax levied by this ordinance shall be at the rate of 5% on the
gross retail income derived from lodging only and shall be in addition to the
state gross retail tax imposed by I.C. 6-2.5.
   (D)   (1)   As used in this section, GROSS RETAIL INCOME means the total
gross receipts, of any kind or character, received in a retail transaction,
except that part of the gross receipts attributable to:
         (a)   The value of any tangible personal property received in a like
kind exchange in the retail transaction; or
         (b)   The receipts received in a retail transaction which constitute
interest, finance charges or insurance premiums on either a promissory note or
an installment sales contract.
      (2)   As used in this section, PERSON includes an individual, assignee,
receiver, commissioner, fiduciary, trustee, executor, administrator,
institution, national bank, bank, consignee, firm, partnership, joint venture,
pool, syndicate, bureau, association, cooperative association, society, club,
fraternity, sorority, lodge, corporation, Indiana political subdivision engaged
in private or proprietary activities, estate, trust or any group or combination
acting as a unit.
   (E)   The tax imposed by this section shall be reported on forms approved by
the County Treasurer, and shall be paid monthly to the County Treasurer, not
more than 20 days after the end of the month in which the tax is collected.
   (F)   All of the provisions of I.C. 6-2.5 relating to rights, duties,
liabilities, procedures, penalties, definitions and administration are
applicable to the imposition and administration of the innkeeper’s tax, except
to the extent those provisions are in conflict or inconsistent with the
specific provisions of I.C. 6-9-18 or the requirements of this section or of
the County Treasurer.
   (G)   Any individual who has a duty to remit the innkeeper’s tax to the
County Treasurer holds those taxes in trust for the county and is personally
liable for the payment of those taxes, plus any penalties and interest
attributable to those taxes.
   (H)   In order to compensate persons for collecting and timely remitting the
innkeeper’s tax every person required to collect and remit the county
innkeeper’s tax is entitled to deduct and retain from the amount of those taxes
otherwise required to be remitted, if timely remitted, a collection allowance
equal to 1% of the tax liability accrued during each reporting period.
   (I)   If a person fails to file a return with the County Treasurer for the
innkeeper’s tax by the due date for the return and to make payment by the due
date for payment, then said person shall pay interest on the nonpayment in the
amount as determined pursuant to I.C. 6-8.1-10-1 or other applicable law, to
the County Treasurer on:
      (1)   The full amount of the unpaid tax due if the person failed to file
the return;
      (2)   The amount of the tax that is not paid if the person filed the
return but failed to pay the full amount of the tax shown on the return; or
      (3)   The amount of the deficiency.
   (J)   If a person fails to file with the County Treasurer the innkeeper’s
tax return or fails to pay the full amount of the tax shown on the return on or
before the due date for the return and payment, or the person fails to timely
remit any tax held in trust for the county, the person is subject to a penalty
determined pursuant to I.C. 6-8.1-10-2.1 or other applicable law, that penalty
presently being 10% of:
      (1)   The full amount of the tax due if the person fails to file the
return;
      (2)   The amount of the tax not paid if the person filed the return but
failed to pay the full amount of the tax shown on the return;
      (3)   The amount of the tax held in trust which is not timely remitted;
or
      (4)   The amount of deficiency as finally determined by the County
Treasurer.
   (K)   This tax shall be imposed and collected beginning on January 1, 1997.
(Council Ord. 1996-3, passed 7-25-1996)
§ 33.056  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX.
   (A)   The County Council imposes the county economic development income tax
on the county taxpayers of the county.
   (B)   The county economic development income tax is imposed at a rate of
0.25% on the county taxpayers of the county.
   (C)   This tax takes effect July 1, 1995.
(Council Ord. 1995-3, passed 3-29-1995)
FEES
§ 33.070  ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM; FEE.
   Under the authority of and subject to I.C. 36-8-16.6 and 36-8-16.7 an
enhanced emergency telephone system is hereby established together with a fee
system to provide for the funding of an enhanced emergency telephone system to
serve the county. This fee shall be collected from the telephone service users
of the county and administered in accordance with the following terms.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM.  A telephone system that utilizes
the three digit number 911 to send automatic number identification and
automatic location identification for reporting police, fire, medical or other
emergency situations.
      EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY.
         (a)   The access from a particular service user’s premises to a
telephone system.
         (b)   The term includes:
            1.   An access line;
            2.   A private branch exchange (PBX) trunk; and
            3.   A centrex line trunk equivalent that is provided by the
service supplier. The term also includes a mobile telephone system access
trunk, whether the trunk is provided by a telephone company or a radio common
carrier.
         (c)   The term does not include:
            1.   A service supplier owned an operated telephone pay station
line;
            2.   A wide area telecommunications service (WATS) line;
            3.   A foreign exchange (FX) line; or
            4.   An incoming only line.
      SERVICE SUPPLER.  A person who provides exchange telephone service to a
service user.
      SERVICE USER.  A person to whom exchange telephone service is provided.
   (B)   A monthly fee of $1.75 per telephone access line or other exchange
access facility will be collected by the service supplier to pay the lease,
purchase or maintenance of enhanced emergency telephone equipment, including
necessary computer hardware, software and data base provisioning; and the rates
associated with the service-suppliers’ enhanced emergency telephone system
network services.
   (C)   The service supplier(s) shall be entitled to retain an administrative
fee of 3% of the monthly fees collected as compensation for collecting the
fees.
   (D)   All monthly fees collected except for the 3% administrative fee shall
be remitted to the Auditor of County within 30 days after the last day of the
month. With the fee remittal, the service supplier shall provide a fee
collection report on a form approved by the County Auditor.
   (E)   The County Auditor shall deposit the remitted fees in a separate fund
named the “Decatur County Emergency Telephone System Fund”. The County Auditor
may invest monies in the fund in the same manner that other monies of the
county are invested with the interest earned from such investment to be
deposited in that fund.
   (F)   During January of each year, each service supplier that collects the
enhanced emergency telephone system fee for the county shall provide a
delinquent fee report to the County Auditor. The report shall list the name,
address and amount due for each service user who is two or more months
delinquent in paying the fee.
   (G)   Each service supplier shall commence collecting the increased fee from
its service users in the month of April 2009.
(Ord. 1990-20, passed 8-27-1990; Council Ord. 2009-1, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 33.071  ADMINISTRATIVE FEE; FORECLOSURE SALES.
   (A)   The amount of $125 is hereby established as an administrative fee to
be charged by the County Sheriff in mortgage foreclosure proceedings, which
shall be in addition to the statutory fees set by I.C. 32-29-7-3(d) for service
of notice of the sale upon owners of real estate.
   (B)   This fee is payable by the person seeking to enforce the judgment and
decree, is due at the time of filing of the praecipe, and shall be deposited in
the County General Fund for appropriation for operating expenses of the
Sheriff’s Department.
   (C)   This section shall apply to all foreclosure sales for which a praecipe
is filed after December 31, 2005.
(Ord. 2005-12, passed 12-19-2005)
§ 33.072  FEES FOR COPYING MAPS AND RELATED DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The County Council hereby establishes the County Enhanced Access
Fund. Fees collected under this section for providing enhanced access to public
records shall be deposited into this fund.
      (2)   Money in the Enhanced Access Fund shall be administered by the GIS
coordinator. Any fees collected pursuant to a contract for enhanced access to
the public records of the county shall be deposited into this fund. Money in
this fund shall be appropriated as approved by the County Council and may be
used for the replacement, improvement and expansion of capital expenditures, or
the reimbursement of operating expenses incurred in providing the enhanced
access.
   (B)   Any office of the county is authorized to charge the following fees
for providing a printed map:
 
Printed Maps              Fees (Black/White/Color)
8-1/2 inches by 11 inches $2
8-1/2 inches by 14 inches $2
Plot Maps                 Fees (Black/White/Color)
24 inches by 24 inches    $7
36 inches by 36 inches    $16
 
   (C)   For the production of a printed map which requires the GIS Manager or
the manager’s designee to assemble data sets or complete specific analysis
requests, a fee is established of $25 per hour, to be billed in increments of
one-quarter hour with a minimum fee of $6.25. This fee is in addition to the
fee for the printed map.
   (D)   Payment for information under this section shall be made at time of
delivery, or if access has been granted by contract, under the terms of the
contract. A person requesting information to be provided by mail must pay all
postage or shipping costs.
   (E)   (1)   A person who receives information from the public records of the
county through enhanced access may not use the information for commercial
purposes/including to sell, advertise or solicit the purchase of merchandise,
goods or services, or sell, loan, give away or otherwise deliver the
information to any other person for these purposes.
      (2)   A person who uses information in a manner contrary to this section
may be prohibited from obtaining any further data.
   (F)   In the event the fees or other provisions of this section are in
conflict with state law, the state law shall apply.
(Council Ord. 2006-1, passed 2-20-2006)
§ 33.073  SEX/VIOLENT OFFENDER REGISTRATION FEES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department is hereby authorized to charge the sum
of $50 per year for the registration of sex or violent offenders and $5 each
time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with the County
Sheriff’s Department.
   (B)   The county now establishes a county Sex and Violent Offender
Administration Fund and the County Sheriff’s Department shall deposit all funds
collected for sex or violent offender registration fees and address change fees
for sex or violent offenders into this account. The County Auditor shall
monthly transfer 10% of any fees collected to the Treasurer of the state for
deposit in the State Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund under I.C.
11-8-8-21.
   (C)   The County Council may appropriate money from the County Sex and
Violent Offender Administration Fund to defray the expense of administering or
ensuring compliance with the laws concerning the state sex and violent offender
registry.
(Ord. 2007-22, passed - -2007)
§ 33.074  REGISTRATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES; EXCISE TAX.
   (A)   All of the following classes of motor vehicles, registered in Decatur
County, shall be subject to an annual wheel tax as set out in the following
schedule, to be paid with the registration of said vehicles.
   (B)   Schedule:
Motor Vehicle Classification Annual Wheel Tax
Motor Vehicle Classification                                Annual Wheel Tax
Passenger vehicles                                          $50
Motorcycles                                                 $50
Motor driven cycles                                         $50
Trucks I.C. 9-18.1-5-9 (11,000 lbs or less)                 $50
Trucks I.C. 9-18.1-5-9 (including farm trucks, recovery
vehicles and tractors not used in combination with a         
semitrailer)                                                $39
   16,000 (11,001 - 16,000 lbs)                          $39
   26,000 (16,001 - 26,000 lbs)                          $39
   36,000 (26,001 - 36,000 lbs)                          $39
   48,000 (36,001 - 48,000 lbs)                          $39
   66,000 (48,001 - 66,000 lbs)                          $39
   78,000 (66,001 - 78,000 lbs)                          $39
   >78,000 (78,001 and over)
Semitractors I.C. 9-18.1-5-9 (tractors used in combination   
with a semitrailer)                                         $46
   11,000 (1 - 11,000 lbs)                               $46
   16,000 (11,001 - 16,000 lbs)                          $46
   26,000 (16,001 - 26,000 lbs)                          $46
   36,000 (26,001 - 36,000 lbs)                          $46
   48,000 (36,001 - 48,000 lbs)                          $46
   66,000 (48,001 - 66,000 lbs)                          $46
   78,000 (66,001 - 78,000 lbs)                          $46
   >78,000 (78,001 and over)
Trailers used with motor vehicles I.C. 9-18.1-5-8 (includes  
farm trailers 12,000 lbs and over)                          $7
   3,000 (1 - 3,000 lbs)                                 $7
   9,000 (3,001 - 9,000 lbs)                             $20
   12,000 (9,001 - 12,000 lbs)                           $20
   16,000 (12,001 - 16,000 lbs)                          $20
   22,000 (16,001 - 22,000 lbs)                          $20
   >22,000 (22,001 and over)
RV I.C. 9-18.1-5-6                                          $33
Semitrailers I.C. 9-18.1-5-10 (includes farm semitrailers)  $46
Buses                                                        
   1.   For-hire I.C. 9-18.1-5-9                       
         11,000 (1 - 11,000 lbs)                   $26
         16,000 (11,001 - 16,000 lbs)              $26
         26,000 (16,001 - 26,000 lbs)              $26
         36,000 (26,001 - 36,000 lbs)              $26
         48,000 (36,001 - 48,000 lbs)              $26
         66,000 (48,001 - 66,000 lbs)              $26
         78,000 (66,001 - 78,000 lbs)              $26
         >78,000 (78,001 and over)                 $26
   2.   Not-for-hire I.C. 9-18.1-5-4                  $26
 
   (C)   As provided by Pub. L. No. 10-Acts 1980 (I.C. 6-3.5-5-4), the
following motor vehicles are exempt from the annual wheel tax:
      (1)   Vehicles owned by the state, a state agency of this state or a
political subdivision of this state;
      (2)   Buses owned and operated by a religious or non-profit youth
organization and used to haul persons to religious service or for the benefit
of their members; and
      (3)   Vehicles subject to the annual excise surtax imposed under I.C. 6-
3.5-4.
   (D)   Beginning January 1, 2017, all of the Excise Surtax and Wheel Tax
collected on motor vehicles registered in Decatur County shall be distributed,
as provided in Pub. L. No. 10-Acts 1980, to the county, city and town units of
Decatur County by the County Auditor and shall be used only to construct,
reconstruct, repair, or maintain streets, roads and bridges under their
jurisdiction.
(Council Ord. 2003-11, passed 5-20-2003; Council Ord. 2016-5, passed 6-14-2016;
Council Ord. 2017-20, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 33.075  SUPPLEMENTAL RECORDING FEE; RECORDER’S OFFICE.
   (A)   On and after January 1, 1997, the County Recorder shall charge a
supplemental fee in the amount of $3 for recording any document. This fee is to
be paid at the time of recording in addition to other fees provided by law.
   (B)   The supplemental recording fee shall be deposited in the Recorder’s
Records Perpetuation Fund for use as authorized by I.C. 36-2-7-10.
(Ord. 1996-5, passed 10-21-1996)
§ 33.076  FEE FOR REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF EACH PARCEL.  Each separate parcel in a deed to
which a tax identification number is assigned.
      REAL PROPERTY ENDORSEMENT.  The notation, “duly entered for taxation
subject to final acceptance for transfer”, “not taxable” or “duly entered for
taxation” or any similar phrase required by I.C. 36-2-11-14 or any amendments
thereto.
   (B)   The County Auditor is authorized to collect a fee of $5 for each legal
description of each parcel contained in a deed for which the Auditor makes a
real property endorsement.
   (C)   Revenue received under this section shall be deposited in a dedicated
fund for use in maintaining plat books.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 9-19-2011)
§ 33.077  LOCAL SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   It is in the best interest of the citizens of Decatur County to
provide necessary funding for Decatur County and the governmental purposes of
Decatur County.
   (B)   The Indiana legislature has provided that a county fiscal body, by
ordinance, may impose a local service fee to offset the loss of tax revenue
from personal property taxes of less than $20,000 in total business personal
property.
   (C)   The Decatur County Council hereby ordains pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-3-7.3
that a local service fee shall be imposed upon any taxpayer or person who,
pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-3-7.2, files the necessary forms on exempt business
property in an amount less than $20,000 from taxation.
   (D)   In addition to division 3 above, a local service fee shall be imposed
upon all heritage barns, as defined by I.C. 6-1.1-12-26.2. That the local
service fee imposed by this section shall be in the amount of $50.
   (E)   The local service fee imposed by this section is due and payable on
the same date as property taxes for that assessment date are due pursuant to
I.C. 6-1.1-3-7.2.
   (F)   The Treasurer of Decatur County is hereby authorized to collect the
service fee provided in this section and/or a delinquent local service fee in
the same manner as delinquent property taxes.
   (G)   All revenue from the local service fee imposed herein shall be
allocated in the same manner and proportion and at the same time as property
taxes are allocated to each taxing unit in the county and may be used by a
taxing unit for any lawful purpose of the taxing unit.
(Council Ord. 2016-1, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 33.078  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH FEES.
   The fees to be charged by the Department of Health for the following
services shall be as follows:
Birth certificates                     $20 per copy
Death certificates                     $25 per copy; $2.25 to Coroner's fee
Genealogy search:                       
   Birth                            $20 per search
   Death                            $25 per search
Amendment                              $20 per amendment
Paternity affidavit                    $50 to be paid by client at initial time
                                       of preparation of document
Lab testing                            $20 per order
TST (TB)                               $20 per test
Septic permits                         $600
Septic repair/expansion                $250
Septic installer registration          $50
Food service facility permit (# of     1 to 9         $200
employees)                             10 to 20      $300
                                       21 plus      $600
Retail food store permit (square
footage)                               1 - 1,000      $200
One-half year fee applied for food     1,001 - 8,000      $300
service facility/retail food store per Over 8,000      $600
guidelines above
Temporary/booth - food                 $50
Annual food permit late fee            $50 per 45 days
Copying                                $1 per page
 
(Res., passed 11-20-2017; Res. passed 11-18-2019)
§ 33.079  PROCESSING FEE FOR MOBILE HOME TITLE TRANSFERS AND MOVING PERMITS.
   (A)   Effective as of 8:00 a.m. on January 1, 2018 a fee of $10 shall be
charged by the County Treasurer for each mobile home moving permit and transfer
of title or a combination fee of $15 for both issued at the same time by the
Treasurer.
   (B)   The County Treasurer shall post the fee set forth in this section in a
prominent place within the Treasurer's Office where the fee schedule is readily
accessible to the public.
   (C)   Such fee shall be paid at, or prior to, the time of the request in
cash or by check or money order made payable and delivered to the County
Treasurer. The sum of each such fee collected shall be deposited in the Decatur
County General Fund.
(Ord. 2017-19, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 33.080  VEHICLE INSPECTION FEE.
   The Sheriff’s Office shall charge the sum of $5 per vehicle inspection.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 33.081  ACCIDENT REPORT FEE.
   (A)   The Sheriff’s Office shall charge the sum of $12 per accident report,
incident reports and calls for service.
   (B)   The Sheriff’s Office shall deposit all fees from said reports and
calls for service into the Accident Report Fund.
   (C)   The Sheriff is authorized to spend all fees from said reports and
calls for service for expenses incurred by the County Sheriff’s Department.
   (D)   These expenditures shall not require a budget appropriation.
   (E)   The Sheriff shall file claims for said fees in the same manner as for
all other county funds for said expenditures.
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 9-2-2019)
§ 33.082  911 AUDIO AND REPORT FEE.
   (A)   Decatur County Communications shall charge the sum of $1 per page of a
run report in excess of five pages.
   (B)   Decatur County Communications shall charge the sum of $25 for a copy
of the audio recording of a phone conversation.
   (C)   Decatur County Communications shall charge the sum of $25 for a copy
of a recording of radio traffic.
   (D)   Decatur County Communications shall charge additional fees for
extensive and/or lengthy requests that require excessive time and effort.
   (E)   All fees collected hereto shall be deposited in the Countywide 911,
Fund No. 4930.
(Ord. 2019-10, passed 10-7-2019)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WASTEWATER; SEWAGE DISPOSAL
      
51.   DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50:  WASTEWATER; SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Section
   
50.01   Incorporation of Rule
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Sewer connection
   
50.04   Private on-site wastewater treatment systems
   
50.05   Permits, registration, inspections and fees
   
50.06   Registration of residential on-site wastewater treatment system
installers
   
50.07   Powers for inspection
   
50.08   Notices
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  INCORPORATION OF RULE.
   Rule 410 of the Indiana Administrative Code, § 6-8.3, and any amendments
thereto are incorporated by reference as a part hereof, and two copies of such
rule shall be on file in the office of the County Auditor and the County Health
Department for public inspection.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed - -2005)
§ 50.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF HEALTH.  The Board of Health having jurisdiction in Decatur County.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The Health Officer having jurisdiction in Decatur County,
or his or her authorized representative.
   PERSON.  An individual, firm or corporation.
   PRIVATE ON-SITE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM.  Any sewage disposal system not
constructed, installed, maintained, operated or owned by a municipality or 
taxing district for the purpose of receiving, treating or disposing of sewage.
   PRIVY.  A fly-tight, rodent-proof structure erected on or over a properly
constructed vault or pit and shall conform to the standards of the most current
State Department of Health publication.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  Any sewer constructed, installed, maintained, operated and
owned by a municipality or a taxing district established for that purpose. A
county sewer installed for the purpose of carrying surface water run-off and
sub-soil drainage shall not be considered a PUBLIC SEWER under this definition.
   RESIDENTIAL ON-SITE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM.  Any arrangement of
equipment and devices necessary for proper conduction, collection, storage,
disposal and on-site treatment of sewage from a one or two-family dwelling.
Included within, but not limited to, the scope of this definition are sewers,
septic tanks, subsurface absorption fields and privy vaults.
   SEWAGE.  Any combination of human excrement and wastewater from water
closets, laundries, sinks, bathing facilities, kitchens and any other source of
objectionable wastewater.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
      (1)   COMBINED SEWER.  A sewer receiving both surface water run-off and
sewage.
      (2)   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
      (3)   SEPTIC SYSTEM.  Any arrangement of equipment and devices necessary
for proper conduction, collection, storage, disposal and on-site treatment of
sewage from a one- or two-family dwelling. Included within, but not limited to,
the scope of this definition are sewers, septic tanks, subsurface absorption
fields and privy vaults.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed - -2005)
§ 50.03  SEWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   If a residential or commercial private on-site wastewater treatment
system was in existence prior to the adoption of this chapter and that system
requires repairs, no repairs may be made if the property served by that system
is within 200 feet of a public sewer, and the property must be connected to the
public sewer.
   (B)   Where public sewer is available to an undeveloped lot, the sewer must
be connected to it when the lot is developed. If the lot is developed prior to
the availability of a sewer, the sewer must be connected to the lot when the
sewer becomes available. The County Environmental Health Division, with the
approval from the State Department of Health, may issue a temporary holding
tank permit for not more than one year.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed - -2005)
§ 50.04  PRIVATE ON-SITE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, all persons who own,
lease or occupy property in the county shall comply with the following
provisions of this chapter for private on-site wastewater treatment systems.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any purposes to place, deposit or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within
the county, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said county, any human
excrement or sewage.
   (C)   At any business building that is not intended for use as a one or two-
family dwelling, that is situated within the county, and where there is
installed a private on-site wastewater treatment system that is not connected
to a public sewer system and no public sewer system is available, there shall
be established, installed, constructed, maintained, operated and, if necessary,
repaired, a private on-site wastewater treatment system that shall comply with
the standards of the State Department of Health as contained in State
Department of Health Bulletin S.E. 13, Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-10.1, and any
amendments thereto, or such other standards as may be approved from time to
time by the State Department of Health. Bulletin S.E. 13, Rule 410 IAC 6-10.1,
and any amendments thereto are hereby incorporated by reference as part of this
section and two copies of such bulletin shall be on file in the office of the
County Auditor and the County Health Department for public inspection.
   (D)   Any privy situated within the county shall be of the sanitary type and
shall be constructed and maintained in a clean condition, and in such a way
that insects and rodents cannot enter the vault. Any privy shall be located
properly so as to protect water supplies from contamination. State Department
of Health Bulletin S.E. 11 any amendments thereto are incorporated by reference
as a part hereof and two copies of such rule shall be on file in the office of
the County Auditor and the County Health Department for public inspection.
   (E)   All private residential on-site wastewater treatment disposal systems
shall be installed, constructed and maintained in an approved manner as from
time to time is described in Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.3 of the State Department of
Health.
   (F)   Per I.C. 14-21-1-26.5(b): “Except as provided in this subsection and
subsections (c) and (d), a person may not disturb the ground within one hundred
(100) feet of a burial ground or cemetery for the purpose of excavating or
covering over the ground or erecting, altering, or repairing any structure
without having a development plan approved by the department (State Department
of Natural Resources Division of Historic Preservation and Archaeology) under
section 25 of this chapter or in violation of a development plan approved by
the department under section 25 of this chapter. The department must review the
development plan as required by section 25(e) of this chapter .”
   (G)   The installation of any other private residential on-site wastewater
treatment disposal systems not described in State Department of Health Rule 410
I.A.C. 6-8.3 of mechanical, chemical or other means shall require prior
approval of both the County Health Officer and the State Department of Health.
   (H)   A notice to correct a defect in any private on-site wastewater
treatment system or privy may be served in writing upon the owner, agent of the
owner, occupant or agent of the occupant by certified mail, return receipt
requested, by delivering a copy in person, or by affixing a copy to the
building served by the system.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed - -2005)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05  PERMITS, REGISTRATION, INSPECTIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Before commencement of installation of any private on-site wastewater
treatment system or privy or where any alteration, repair or addition of an
existing private on-site wastewater treatment system or privy is planned, the
owner or agent of the owner shall first obtain a written septic construction
permit signed by the Health Officer. The application for such permit shall be
made on a form provided by the County Health Department. The application shall
be accompanied by any plans, specifications and other information as may be
deemed necessary by the County Health Officer.
   (B)   A fee of $50 shall be assessed for obtaining a septic system
construction permit for new residential construction. A fee of $50 shall be
assessed for renewal of a septic system construction permit for new residential
construction.
   (C)   A fee of $50 shall be assessed for obtaining a septic system
construction permit for new commercial construction. A fee of $50 shall be
assessed for renewal of a septic system construction permit for new commercial
construction.
   (D)   Any construction permit issued under this chapter shall not be sold,
assigned, loaned or transferred.
   (E)   A preconstruction review with the on-site wastewater treatment system
installer may be required for all installations.
   (F)   A final permit for a private on-site wastewater treatment system or
privy shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the County Health Officer. He or she or his or her agent shall
be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction; and, in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the County Health Officer when the
work is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within two working days of the receipt of
notice by the County Health Officer.
   (G)   For new construction only, the septic system must be installed and
inspected prior to building
or placing tire dwelling on the property. Waivers will be granted on a case by
case basis only by the Health Officer or the Health Officer’s designee.
   (H)   If the on-site wastewater treatment system or privy has not been
constructed within two years from the date of issuance for a new installation
or within six months from the date of issuance for a repair, the permit shall
expire unless an extension is warranted by the Health Officer.
   (I)   The Health Officer or his or her duly appointed agent shall have
authority to inspect any and all private on-site wastewater treatment systems
or privies here-to-for installed and existing at the passage of this chapter.
If at such inspection it would appear to the Health Officer that any such
sewage disposal system or privy is unsanitary he or she shall notify the owner
of the real estate upon which said system or privy is located, or the agent of
such owner, of said finding and shall order said owner or agent to make
whatsoever change as may be necessary to correct such unsanitary condition.
   (J)   All fees collected under the terms of this chapter shall be receipted
monthly into the County Health Fund (0801 Fund) for services in enforcing this
chapter.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed - -2005)
§ 50.06  REGISTRATION OF RESIDENTIAL ON-SITE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM
INSTALLERS.
   (A)   No person shall install an on-site wastewater treatment system for
hire that is not registered in the county. A person shall become registered by
demonstrating competent knowledge of county and state on-site wastewater
treatment system codes through successful completion of a test administered by
the County Environmental Health Division, providing proof of bond for at least
$5,000, and paying a $25 registration fee. Once registered, the installer shall
be given a registration card and put on a list that is available to the public.
   (B)   For an installer to renew his or her registration card, he or she must
provide current proof of bond for at least $5,000 and pay a $25 renewal fee.
      (1)   The card shall be valid for the current year only; January 1
through December 31.
      (2)   Annual renewal is required.
   (C)   An installer’s name shall remain on the register until he or she
removes it or it is removed by the County Health Officer for failure to uphold
the on-site wastewater treatment codes by violating a permit, not obtaining a
permit, or otherwise falsifying an installation.
   (D)   The County Health Officer shall promptly mail or personally serve
written notice to each person whose name is removed from the register. The
notice shall specify the reason for removal.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed - -2005)
§ 50.07  POWERS FOR INSPECTION.
   The Health Officer, having proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter upon all properties at the proper time, after giving due
notice for purpose of inspection, measurement, observation, sampling and
testing necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed - -2005)
§ 50.08  NOTICES.
   Any person found to be in violation of any provisions of this chapter may be
served by the Health Officer with a written order stating the nature of the
violation and providing a time limit for satisfactory correction thereof.
Service may be made by certified mail, return receipt requested, by delivering
a copy in person, or by affixing a copy to the building served by the
noncompliant system.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed - -2005)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of an infraction. On conviction, the violator shall be punished for the
first offense by a fine of not more than $500; for the second and each
subsequent offence by a fine of not more than $1,000, plus costs. Each day
after the expiration of the time limit for abating unsanitary conditions and
completing improvements to abate such conditions as ordered by the County Board
of Health or by the duly appointed Health Officer shall constitute a distinct
and separate offense.
   (B)   In the event that it is necessary to enforce this chapter through
court action, the violator shall be assessed all legal fees, court costs and
all other costs of litigation, in addition to any fines imposed. All such
costs, fees and fines shall be an amount determined by the court and awarded as
a judgment in favor of the county.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed - -2005)
CHAPTER 51:  DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Fees for solid waste disposal in a final disposal facility
§ 51.01  FEES FOR SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL IN A FINAL DISPOSAL FACILITY.
   (A)   There is established a fee of $0.50 per ton on the disposal of solid
waste in any final disposal facility located within the county solid waste
management district.
   (B)   For purposes of collecting this fee, the owner or operator of a
facility which annually receives, on average, less than 200 tons of solid waste
each day, and does not have a scale suitable for weighing the solid waste
received, may determine the weight of solid waste received by applying the
following conversion factors:
      (1)   Three and three-tenths cubic yards of compacted solid waste equals
one ton of solid waste; and
      (2)   Six cubic yards of uncompacted solid waste equals one ton of solid
waste.
   (C)   The owner or operator of any final disposal facility within the
district shall collect the district fee from persons delivering solid waste to
that facility. The owner or operator may deduct from the fees an amount equal
to 1% of the fees collected and may retain this amount as a commission for
collecting and remitting the fees.
   (D)   The owner or operator shall remit the net fees collected during a
month, after  deductions  for commissions, to the fiscal officer of the county
solid waste management district within ten days after the last day of the month
in which the fees are collected. At the time fees are remitted, the owner or 
operator shall submit a fee collection report showing the tonnage of waste
received, fees collected, amount of commissions and net fees.
   (E)   The solid waste disposal fee shall not be imposed on the disposal of
solid waste by a person  that:
      (1)   Generated the solid waste; and
      (2)   Disposes of the solid waste at a sight that is:
         (a)   Owned by that person; and
         (b)   Limited, for purposes of the disposal of solid waste, to use by
that person for the disposal of solid waste generated by that person.
   (F)   The solid waste disposal fee shall not be imposed on solid waste that
is received at a final disposal facility under a contract entered into before
January, 1990, unless the contract has a pass-through provision by which the
transporter of the solid waste may recover the fees from the transporter’s
clients.
(Res. passed 4-4-1991)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   ABANDONED RAILROAD STRUCTURES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Wheeled recreational devices
   
70.02   Speed limits in worksite areas
   
70.03   Off-road vehicles on county roads
   
70.04   Permits; transporting heavy vehicles and loads
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  WHEELED RECREATIONAL DEVICES.
   No person may use the sloped concrete areas, steps, approaches or entry ways
to the County Courthouse for the recreational use of a bicycle, skateboard,
roller skates, wagon or other similar recreational use.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 2-2-1998)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  SPEED LIMITS IN WORKSITE AREAS.
   (A)   The “vicinity of a worksite” includes the area for 1,500 feet in each
direction from a work crew on any county road.
   (B)   A person may not drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of 35 mph in the
vicinity of a worksite.
   (C)   The County Highway Superintendent shall cause signs to be posted in
the vicinity of any worksite, stating the maximum speed limit.
   (D)   A person who violates this section commits a Class C infraction.
(Ord. 1998-3, passed 5-4-1998)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  OFF-ROAD VEHICLES ON COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   Off-road vehicles as defined in I.C. 14-8-2-185 may be operated on the
county highway system in the county.
   (B)   This section affects only the roads in the county highway system,
having no effect in the city of Greensburg or the Towns of Milford, Millhousen,
New Point, St. Paul or Westport.
   (C)   All restrictions set by state law in the motor vehicle code and in
I.C. 14-16-1-1 et seq. shall apply to off-road vehicles, their owners and
operators.
(Res. 2001-3, passed 7-16-2001)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04  PERMITS; TRANSPORTING HEAVY VEHICLES AND LOADS.
   (A)   The weight and size limits for vehicles and loads established by I.C.
9-20 apply within the county, unless stricter limits for particular roads have
been established by local ordinance and signs have been posted designating
those limits.
   (B)   The County Highway Department may, upon proper application in writing
and upon good cause shown, grant a permit for transporting heavy or oversized
vehicles or loads on the county roads if the County Highway Department finds
that other traffic will not be seriously affected and highways or bridges will
not be seriously damaged.
   (C)   A permit under this section may be issued for a single trip or for a
definite time as specified in the permit, not to exceed one year.
   (D)   The County Highway Department may adopt such procedures as it deems
appropriate to carry out the provisions of this section, including setting
fees, guidelines and requirements for permits.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed 1-22-2008)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
70.01 shall be guilty of a Class C infraction, and shall be subject to a fine
not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 1998-2, passed 2-2-1998)
CHAPTER 71:  ABANDONED RAILROAD STRUCTURES
Section
   
71.01   Scope
   
71.02   Removal of structures
   
71.03   Performance bond
   
71.04   Definitions
   
71.05   Enforcement
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  SCOPE.
   This chapter shall apply to any railroad bridge, overpass, trestle or
culvert which had carried a line of railroad over any roadway, stream or drain
in this county and which railroad, roadway, stream or drain is not subject to
the conflicting jurisdiction of the federal government.
(Ord. 1997-21, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 71.02  REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Upon discontinuance of rail service over and abandonment for railroad
purposes of any segment of a line of railroad in this county, the owner of such
segment shall remove each bridge, overpass, trestle or culvert, and all
embankments, piers, bents and walls, on which such segment had been situated.
   (B)   The removal shall be accomplished in such a manner as will eliminate
all vertical and horizontal clearance restrictions caused by the line of
railroad within the roadway right-of-way at each roadway and within the stream,
floodway and floodway fringe at each stream or drain crossing.
(Ord. 1997-21, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 71.03  PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   Upon abandonment of any segment of a line of railroad in this county,
the owner of such segment shall post a performance bond in such form and amount
as the County Surveyor shall deem necessary to ensure removal of the abandoned
structures pursuant to the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event the owner disagrees with the form or amount of the
performance bond as required by the County Surveyor, the owner may file a
petition with the Commissioner’s Office, stating the particulars of the bond
with which the owner disagrees and proposing new terms.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners of the county shall set the petition for
a public hearing within 60 days of its receipt.
      (2)   At the hearing, the Board of Commissioners of the county shall
determine, de novo, the reasonably expected cost of removal of the structures
subject to this chapter as well as the existence of any mitigating factors,
such as the value and nature of other assets of the owner within the county and
which are offered as security for performance.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners of the county may retain such expert, or
experts, as it feels reasonable to assist them in consideration of any petition
filed pursuant to this chapter, with the expense therefor payable by the owner.
      (4)   All evidence considered by the Board of Commissioners of the county
shall be entered into the public record of the hearing and the hearing may be
continued from time to time until completed.
(Ord. 1997-21, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 71.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT.  Shall be presumed to occur when a segment has been abandoned
pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Commission Termination Act or successor
statutes and at least 100 continuous feet of rail has been removed without
immediate replacement.
   OWNER.  Shall not include the holder, as such, of any reversionary interest
in the railroad right-of-way, but shall include each holder of any present or
future interest in the rail, ties or other track material located thereon.
(Ord. 1997-21, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 71.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter, and prohibition of its violation may be
enforced by injunction in addition to such other remedies as may be available
at law or in equity.
(Ord. 1997-21, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall result in a fine of not more than $2,500 per
occurrence. Each day a violation occurs with regard to each structure shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 1997-21, passed 10-6-1997)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop/yield intersections
   
III.   Weight limits
   
IV.   Trucks and commercial vehicles
SCHEDULE I:  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Ord. 1989-3, passed 7-10-1989.
      (1)   The speed limit for the areas and roads described in this division
(A) shall be 30 mph and shall be in effect after the passage of this division
(A) and after said speed zones are posted on said roads.
      (2)   Law enforcement agencies for the City of Greensburg, Indiana, and
law enforcement agencies for the county are both authorized to enforce the
provisions of this division (A), regardless of whether enforcement occurs
within the city limits or outside the city limits for Greensburg, Indiana.
      (3)   The court costs and fine money derived from the enforcement of this
division (A) shall be credited and paid to the City of Greensburg, Indiana or
the county, so that money derived from an arrest by a City of Greensburg law
enforcement agency shall go to the City of Greensburg, and proceeds from an
arrest by a law enforcement agency from the county shall be paid to the county.
      (4)   The following areas and roads shall be controlled by this division
(A), and shall be governed by the 30 mph zone specified herein, and by the
other terms and conditions outlined herein:
         (a)   Millhousen Road, also known as County Road 60E, from State Road
421 South to 257 feet south of Beechwood Road;
         (b)   Park Road (50 S) to 200 West, then 200 West to State Road 46;
         (c)   Moscow Road, from State Road 421 to County Road 150 North;
         (d)   All of Montgomery Road;
         (e)   All of Barachel Lane;
         (f)   County Road N.E. 80 along the Odd Fellows Park, from State Road
46 to East Central Avenue;
         (g)   All of Freeland Road; and
         (h)   County Road 150 between Moscow Road and North Carver Street.
      (5)   Any person violating any provisions of this division (A) shall be
fined in a sum of not less than $10, and not more than $100 for each offense,
and both police agencies are authorized to file violations of this division (A)
through the County Court.
      (6)   The speed zone described for the areas outlined hereinabove shall
remain the same on both sides of the road, regardless of whether said road is
in the city limits or outside the city limits for the City of Greensburg,
Indiana, and this division (A) is being passed with the full understanding and
knowledge of both the City of Greensburg and the county, and is intended to be
a reciprocal and joint ordinance, which is being approved by both governmental
agencies.
   (B)   Ord. 1998-8, passed 8-17-1998.
      (1)   A person may not drive a vehicle on County Road 400 W, from its
intersection with County Road 650 N to County Road 750 N, at a speed in excess
of 35 mph.
      (2)   A person who violates this division (B) commits a Class C
infraction.
      (3)   This division (B) shall be effective upon its publication as
required by law and upon the posting of signs designating the speed limit.
   (C)   Ord. 2000-6, passed 6-5-2000.
      (1)   A person may not drive a vehicle on the county roads designated
herein at a speed in excess of the following limits:
         (a)   Thirty mph on County Road SW 220 between County Road 600 S and
County Road 500 S;
         (b)   Forty-five mph on County Road SW 220 between County Road 500 S
and County Road 400 S;
         (c)   Thirty mph on County Road 500 S between County Road SW 220 and
County Road SW 60; and
         (d)   Forty-five mph on County Road 500 S between County Road 450 W
and County Road SW 220.
      (2)   A person who violates this division (C) commits a Class C
infraction.
      (3)   This division (C) shall be effective upon its publication as
required by law and upon the posting of signs designating the speed limit.
   (D)   Ord. 2003-6, passed 4-21-2003.
      (1)   The speed limits of the following ordinances are incorporated into
this division (D):
 
Ord. Number Passage Date
1989-5      7-24-1989
1992-1      2-3-1992
1999-1      1-19-1999
1999-6      8-16-1999
1999-10     11-15-1999
2002-19     11-4-2002
 
      (2)   As prescribed by the above ordinances, the following speed limits
have been set.
         (a)   Thirty mph on County Road 100 North from the town limits of
Milford to a point two-tenths mile west of the corporate boundary line.
         (b)   Twenty-five mph on County Road 350 N from the Franklin/Decatur
County line west for a distance of 1,200 feet.
         (c)   Forty-five mph on County Road 700 S from its intersection with
County Road 350 W to County Road 605 W.
         (d)   Thirty mph on County Road SW 220 between County Road 600 S and
County Road 500 S.
         (e)   Forty-five mph on County Road SW 220 between County Road 500 S
and County Road 400 S.
         (f)   Thirty mph on County Road 500 S between County Road SW 220 and
County Road SW 60.
         (g)   Forty-five mph on County Road 500 S between County Road 450 W
and County Road SW 220.
         (h)   30 mph on County Road 850 S from its intersection with County
Road 1000 W to a point 1,331 feet west of that intersection.
         (i)   Thirty mph on County Road 700 S from its intersection with State
Road 3 to County Road 420 W.
      (3)   The penalties already prescribed for violations of posted speed
limits shall remain in effect.
   (E)   Ord. 2004-6, passed 5-17-2004.
      (1)   A person may not drive a vehicle on the highway designated in this
division (E) at a speed in excess of 30 mph.
      (2)   The limit set by this division (E) applies to 421 North in Adams
Township, from its intersection with County Road 650 West to a point 98 0 feet
southeast of its intersection with County Road 650 North (Frontage Road).
      (3)   A person who violates this division (E) commits a Class C
infraction.
      (4)   Any fines collected for violations of this division (E) shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the county.
   (F)   Ord. 2004-7, passed 6-7-2004.
      (1)   A person may not drive a vehicle on the road designated in this
division (F) at a speed in excess of 15 mph.
      (2)   The limit set by this division (F) applies to Layton Drive in
SandCreek Township, from its intersection with County Road 1100 South to a
point 500 feet northwest of the west end of the concrete approach at the west
end of the covered bridge.
      (3)   A person who violates this ordinance commits a Class C infraction.
      (4)   Any fines collected for violations of this division (F) shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the county.
   (G)   Ord. 2006-11, passed 9-18-2006.
      (1)   A person may not operate a vehicle in excess of 40 mph on County
Road 300 North between Old Highway 421 North and County Road 350 West.
      (2)   A person who violates this ordinance commits a Class C infraction.
      (3)   Any  fines collected for violations of this division (G) shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the county.
   (H)   Ord. 2007-9, passed 6-18-2007.
      (1)   A person may not drive a vehicle on the highway designated in this
division (H) at a speed in excess of 30 mph.
      (2)   The limit set by this division (H) applies to the following roads:
         (a)   County Road 420 W, from 100 feet north of its intersection with
County Road 345 N to its intersection with County Road 300 N;
         (b)   County Road 425 W, from its intersection with County Road 300 N
to its intersection with County Road 450 W;
         (c)   County Road 3 00 N, from its intersection with County Road 430 W
to 400 feet west of its intersection with County Road 450 W; and
         (d)   County Road 300 N, from its intersection with County Road 420 W
to 100 feet East of the address 4222 W County Road 300 N.
      (3)   A person who violates this division (H) commits a Class C
infraction.
      (4)   Any fines collected for violations of this division (H) shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the county.
      (5)   This division (H) shall take effect from and after its passage and
publication.
   (I)   Ord. 2008-3, passed 4-21-2008.
      (1)   A person may not operate a vehicle on County Road 650 North from
1,700 feet west of the bridge designated as Bridge 19, to a point 1,700 feet
east of Bridge 19, at a speed in excess of 30 mph.
      (2)   A person who violates this division (I) commits a Class C
infraction.
   (J)   Ord. 2020-8, passed 8-17-2020.
      (1)   A person may not drive a vehicle on 700 W. from the St. Paul city
limits south to 5276 N. County Rd. 700 W. at a speed in excess of 30 miles per
hour.
      (2)   A person who violates this division (J) commits a Class C
infraction.
(Ord. 1989-3, passed 7-10-1989; Ord. 1989-5, passed 7-24-1989; Ord. 1992-1,
passed 2-3-1992; Ord. 1998-8, passed 8-17-1998; Ord. 1999-1, passed 1-19-1999;
Ord. 1999-6, passed 8-16-1999; Ord. 1999-10, passed 11-15-1999; Ord. 2000-6,
passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 2002-19, passed 11-4-2002; Ord. 2003-6, passed 4-21-2003;
Ord. 2004-6, passed 5-17-2004; Ord. 2004-7, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 2006-11,
passed 9-18-2006; Ord. 2007-9, passed 6-18-2007; Ord. 2008-3, passed 4-21-2008;
Ord. 2020-8, passed 8-17-2020)
SCHEDULE II: STOP/YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The intersections listed in this division are designated as stop
intersections. Vehicles traveling in the directions indicated in this schedule
shall stop prior to entering the intersection.
      (1)   Decatur County.
Road Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
Road        Direction of Travel Intersection       Sign
50 N        E                   DEC/FRANKLIN       STOP
50 N        W                   850 E              STOP
50 N        E                   850 E              STOP
50 N        W                   650 E              STOP
50 N        W                   DEC/BARTH          STOP
50 N        E                   750 W              STOP
50 N        E                   700 W              STOP
80 N        E                   750 W              STOP
80 N        W                   750 W              STOP
80 NE       S                   300 N              STOP
80 NE       N                   300 N              STOP
80 NE       S                   BASE ROAD E        STOP
80 NE       N                   700 E              STOP
80 NE       S                   200 N              STOP
100 N       E                   600 E              STOP
100 N       E                   500 W              STOP
100 N       W                   DEC/BARTH          STOP
100 N       W                   MONTGOMERY         STOP
150 N       E                   850 E              STOP
150 N       W                   850 E              STOP
150 N       E                   DEC/FRANKLIN       STOP
150 N       E                   200 E              STOP
150 N       W                   100 W              STOP
200 N       W                   600 E              STOP
200 N       E                   600 E              STOP
200 N       E                   850 E              STOP
200 N       W                   850 E              STOP
200 N       E                   100 W              STOP
200 N       E                   700 W              STOP
240 NW      E                   700 W              STOP
240 NW      W                   700 W              STOP
300 N       E                   NE 80              STOP
300 N       W                   NE 80              STOP
300 N       S                   600 E              STOP
300 N       W                   600 E              STOP
300 N       E                   850 E              STOP
300 N       W                   850 E              STOP
300 N       E                   950 E              STOP
300 N       W                   950 E              STOP
300 N       W                   700 W              STOP
300 N       E                   420 W              STOP
350 N       E                   520 W              STOP
350 N       W                   650 W              STOP
350 N       E                   700 W              STOP
400 N       N                   NE 80              STOP
400 N       E                   NE 80 & 500 E      STOP
400 N       W                   400 E              STOP
400 N       E                   700 E              STOP
400 N       E                   150 W              STOP
400 N       W                   150 W              STOP
450 N       E                   80 NE              STOP
450 N       E                   700 W              STOP
450 N       W                   700 W              STOP
450 N       E                   520 W              STOP
450 N       W                   350 W              STOP
450 N       S                   OLD U.S. 421       STOP
500 N       E                   400 E              STOP
500 N       E                   150 W              STOP
500 N       W                   420 W              STOP
550 N       W                   800 E              STOP
550 N       E                   880 E              STOP
550 N       W                   700 E              STOP
550 N       W                   400 E              STOP
550 N       E                   500 E              STOP
550 N       W                   500 E              STOP
550 N       E                   700 W              STOP
550 N       W                   700 W              STOP
550 N       E                   OLD U.S. 421       STOP
600 N       W                   420 W              STOP
600 N       E                   400 E              STOP
600 N       W                   150 W              STOP
600 N       E                   150 W              STOP
600 N       W                   350 W              STOP
600 N       W                   350 W              STOP
640 N       W                   700 E              STOP
640 N       E                   700 E              STOP
650 N       E                   150 W              STOP
650 N       W                   150 W              STOP
650 N       W                   400 W              STOP
650 N       N                   OLD U.S. 421       STOP
650 N       NE                  OLD U.S. 421       STOP
700 N       SW                  OLD U.S. 421       STOP
700 N       NE                  OLD U.S. 421       STOP
750 N       E                   DEC/FRANKLIN       STOP
750 N       W                   860 E              STOP
750 N       E                   150 W              STOP
750 N       W                   150 W              STOP
750 N       E                   400 W              STOP
50 S        W                   DEC/FRANKLIN       STOP
50 S        E                   850 W              STOP
60 SW       N                   1100 S             STOP
60 SW       S                   1100 S             STOP
60 SW       N                   1000 S             STOP
60 SW       S                   1000 S             STOP
60 SW       S                   800 S              STOP
60 SW       S                   250 S              STOP
60 SW       N                   750 S              STOP
100 S       E                   700 E              STOP
100 S       W                   600 E              STOP
100 S       E                   700 W              STOP
100 S       W                   850 W              STOP
100 S       E                   850 W              STOP
150 S       W                   850 E              STOP
150 S       E                   DEC/FRANKLIN       STOP
150 S       W                   500 E              STOP
150 S       E                   500 E              STOP
150 S       E                   600 E              STOP
150 S       E                   60 SW              STOP
200 S       E                   850 E              STOP
200 S       W                   850 E              STOP
200 S       E                   700 E              STOP
200 S       W                   700 E              STOP
200 S       E                   800 E              STOP
200 S       W                   800 E              STOP
200 S       E                   850 W              STOP
200 S       W                   850 W              STOP
200 S       E                   700 W              STOP
200 S       W                   700 W              STOP
200 S       W                   450 W              STOP
200 S       E                   280 W              STOP
200 S       W                   150 W              STOP
220 SW      N                   500 S              STOP
220 SW      N                   250 S              STOP
220 SW      S                   700 S              STOP
250 S       E                   60 SW              STOP
250 S       W                   60 SW              STOP
300 S       E                   DEC/FRANKLIN       STOP
300 S       E                   850 E              STOP
300 S       W                   850 E              STOP
300 S       W                   500 E              STOP
300 S       E                   500 E              STOP
300 S       E                   800 E              STOP
300 S       W                   800 E              STOP
300 S       W                   700 E              STOP
300 S       E                   700 E              STOP
300 S       E                   700 W              STOP
300 S       W                   700 W              STOP
300 S       E                   550 W              STOP
300 S       W                   550 W              STOP
300 S       E                   450 W              STOP
300 S       W                   450 W              STOP
300 S       E                   320 W              STOP
300 S       W                   60 W               STOP
300 S       E                   60 E               STOP
300 S       W                   60 E               STOP
300 S       E                   180 E              STOP
300 S       W                   180 E              STOP
350 S       W                   850 E              STOP
400 S       E                   1000 E             STOP
400 S       W                   700 E              STOP
400 S       E                   700 E              STOP
400 S       W                   320 W              STOP
400 S       E                   450 W              STOP
400 S       W                   220 SW             STOP
400 S       E                   220 SW             STOP
400 S       E                   60 SW              STOP
400 S       W                   60 SW              STOP
400 S       E                   60 E               STOP
400 S       W                   60 E               STOP
400 S       E                   20 W               STOP
400 S       W                   20 W               STOP
400 S       E                   180 E              STOP
400 S       W                   180 E              STOP
400 S       W                   300 E              STOP
400 S       E                   300 E              STOP
450 S       W                   700 W              STOP
480 S       W                   850 W              STOP
500 S       W                   850 E              STOP
500 S       E                   850 E              STOP
500 S       W                   700 E              STOP
500 S       E                   850 W              STOP
500 S       E                   700 W              STOP
500 S       W                   700 W              STOP
500 S       W                   220 SW             STOP
500 S       E                   60 SW              STOP
500 S       W                   60 SW              STOP
500 S       E                   60 E               STOP
500 S       E                   200 E              STOP
500 S       E                   480 E              STOP
575 S       W                   600 W              STOP
575 S       E                   300 E              STOP
575 S       W                   300 E              STOP
600 S       E                   700 E              STOP
600 S       W                   700 E              STOP
600 S       E                   1000 W             STOP
600 S       W                   1000 W             STOP
600 S       W                   DEC/BARTH          STOP
600 S       E                   600 W              STOP
600 S       W                   700 W              STOP
600 S       E                   700 W              STOP
600 S       E                   60 SW              STOP
600 S       W                   220 SW             STOP
600 S       W                   60 E               STOP
600 S       E                   225 E              STOP
600 S       W                   480 E              STOP
600 S       E                   550 S              STOP
600 S       W                   550 E              STOP
600 S       E                   850 W              STOP
600 S       W                   850 W              STOP
650 S       W                   60 E               STOP
650 S       E                   60 E               STOP
650 S       E                   150 E              STOP
650 S       W                   300 E              STOP
700 S       E                   DEC/BARTH          STOP
700 S       E                   700 W              STOP
700 S       W                   700 W              STOP
700 S       E                   60 SW              STOP
700 S       E                   60 E               STOP
700 S       E                   550 E              STOP
700 S       W                   550 E              STOP
750 S       E                   80 W               STOP
800 S       W                   700 W              STOP
800 S       E                   350 W              STOP
800 S       W                   350 W              STOP
800 S       E                   60 E               STOP
820 S       W                   60 E               STOP
850 S       E                   700 W              STOP
850 S       W                   800 W              STOP
850 S       E                   800 W              STOP
850 S       W                   350 W              STOP
850 S       E                   60 SW              STOP
850 S       W                   DEC/BARTH          STOP
900 S       W                   60 SW              STOP
900 S       E                   100 W              STOP
900 S       W                   100 W              STOP
900 S       E                   60 E               STOP
900 S       W                   60 E               STOP
950 S       W                   1000 E             STOP
950 S       E                   900 W              STOP
950 S       W                   700 W              STOP
950 S       E                   420 W              STOP
950 S       W                   420 W              STOP
950 S       E                   350 W              STOP
950 S       W                   60 E               STOP
1000 S      W                   DEC/BARTH          STOP
1000 S      E                   800 W              STOP
1000 S      W                   800 W              STOP
1000 S      E                   700 W              STOP
1000 S      W                   350 W              STOP
1000 S      W                   60 E               STOP
1050 S      W                   420 W              STOP
1050 S      W                   100 W              STOP
1050 S      E                   20 W               STOP
1080 S      W                   60 SW              STOP
1080 S      E                   100 W              STOP
1150 S      W                   600 W              STOP
1150 S      E                   500 W              STOP
1200 S      E                   1050 W             STOP
1200 S      W                   1050 W             STOP
1200 S      E                   800 W              STOP
1250 S      E                   700 W              STOP
1250 S      W                   700 W              STOP
1250 S      W                   600 W              STOP
1250 S      W                   500 W              STOP
1250 S      E                   500 W              STOP
1250 S      E                   400 W              STOP
1280 S      E                   300 W              STOP
1300 S      W                   1050 W             STOP
1300 S      E                   1050 W             STOP
1300 S      W                   DEC/BARTH          STOP
1300 S      E                   700 W              STOP
1300 S      W                   700 W              STOP
1300 S      E                   500 W              STOP
1400 S      W                   DEC/BARTH/JENNINGS STOP
50 E        N                   1000 S             STOP
60 E        N                   1000 S             STOP
120 E       N                   500 N              STOP
120 E       S                   300 N              STOP
120 E       N                   300 N              STOP
120 E       S                   200 N              STOP
120 E       S                   80 NE              STOP
150 E       S                   600 N              STOP
150 E       S                   820 S              STOP
150 E       N                   600 S              STOP
180 E       N                   820 S              STOP
200 E       N                   500 N              STOP
200 E       S                   300 N              STOP
200 E       N                   BASE RD            STOP
200 E       S                   80 NE              STOP
200 E       S                   100 S              STOP
200 E       S                   600 S              STOP
200 E       S                   820 S              STOP
225 E       S                   640 N              STOP
225 E       N                   640 N              STOP
225 E       S                   500 N              STOP
225 E       S                   BASE RD            STOP
225 E       N                   80 NE              STOP
225 E       N                   950 S              STOP
225 E       S                   700 S              STOP
225 E       N                   800 N/DEC/RUSH     STOP
250 E       N                   700 S              STOP
250 E       S                   820 S              STOP
280 E       N                   300 N              STOP
280 E       N                   100 S              STOP
300 E       S                   700 S              STOP
300 E       N                   500 N              STOP
300 E       S                   300 N              STOP
300 E       N                   500 S              STOP
300 E       S                   500 S              STOP
350 E       N                   BASE RD            STOP
350 E       S                   BASE RD            STOP
350 E       N                   80 NE              STOP
350 E       S                   500 N              STOP
400 E       N                   640 N              STOP
400 E       S                   640 N              STOP
400 E       N                   DEC/RUSH           STOP
400 E       N                   300 N              STOP
400 E       S                   300 N              STOP
400 E       S                   80 NE              STOP
400 E       S                   200 S              STOP
400 E       S                   DEC/RIPLEY         STOP
400 E       N                   400 S              STOP
400 E       S                   500 S              STOP
400 E       N                   500 S              STOP
450 E       S                   640 N              STOP
480 E       S                   700 S              STOP
500 E       S                   80 NE              STOP
500 E       N                   640 N              STOP
500 E       S                   550 N              STOP
500 E       N                   550 N              STOP
500 E       N                   BASE RD            STOP
500 E       S                   BASE RD            STOP
500 E       N                   200 N              STOP
500 E       S                   100 N              STOP
500 E       S                   400 S              STOP
500 E       N                   200 S              STOP
500 E       S                   200 S              STOP
550 E       S                   640 N              STOP
550 E       N                   400 S              STOP
550 E       S                   400 S              STOP
550 E       N                   200 S              STOP
550 E       N                   300 S              STOP
550 E       S                   300 S              STOP
600 E       N                   640 N              STOP
600 E       S                   550 N              STOP
600 E       N                   80 NE              STOP
600 E       N                   BASE RD            STOP
600 E       S                   BASE RD            STOP
600 E       N                   200 N              STOP
600 E       S                   200 N              STOP
600 E       S                   300 N              STOP
600 E       N                   300 N              STOP
600 E       N                   400 S              STOP
600 E       S                   200 S              STOP
600 E       S                   500 S              STOP
650 E       S                   BASE RD            STOP
650 E       N                   150 N              STOP
650 E       N                   200 N              STOP
700 E       S                   640 N              STOP
700 E       N                   640 N              STOP
700 E       N                   BASE RD            STOP
700 E       S                   BASE RD            STOP
700 E       N                   50 N               STOP
800 E       S                   FRONTAGE RD        STOP
800 E       S                   BASE RD            STOP
800 E       S                   400 S              STOP
800 E       N                   400 S              STOP
800 E       S                   200 S              STOP
800 E       N                   200 S              STOP
800 E       S                   500 S              STOP
800 E       N                   640 N              STOP
850 E       N                   300 N              STOP
850 E       S                   300 N              STOP
850 E       N                   400 N              STOP
850 E       S                   200 S              STOP
850 E       N                   200 S              STOP
850 E       S                   400 S              STOP
850 E       N                   400 S              STOP
860 E       N                   300 N              STOP
860 E       S                   640 N              STOP
880 E       S                   300 N              STOP
880 E       N                   400 N              STOP
880 E       S                   400 N              STOP
925 E       N                   550 N              STOP
950 E       S                   50 N               STOP
950 E       S                   300 N              STOP
950 E       N                   400 N              STOP
950 E       N                   150 N              STOP
950 E       N                   880 E              STOP
950 E       S                   300 S              STOP
950 E       N                   300 S              STOP
950 E       N                   400 S              STOP
950 E       S                   500 S              STOP
950 E       N                   500 S              STOP
1000 E      S                   950 E              STOP
1000 E      N                   50 N               STOP
1000 E      S                   50 N               STOP
1000 E      N                   300 N              STOP
1000 E      N                   400 S              STOP
1000 E      S                   400 S              STOP
20 W        N                   300 S              STOP
20 W        N                   500 S              STOP
20 W        S                   650 S              STOP
20 W        N                   1000 S             STOP
20 W        S                   500 S              STOP
80 W        S                   800 S              STOP
100 W       N                   900 S              STOP
100 W       S                   900 S              STOP
100 W       N                   800 S              STOP
100 W       S                   1000 S             STOP
100 W       N                   1000 S             STOP
100 W       N                   500 S              STOP
150 W       S                   250 S              STOP
150 W       N                   50 S               STOP
150 W       S                   1100 S             STOP
150 W       N                   1080 S             STOP
200 W       N                   1100 S             STOP
250 W       N                   750 N              STOP
250 W       S                   650 N              STOP
250 W       N                   240 NW             STOP
250 W       N                   400 N              STOP
250 W       N                   500 N              STOP
250 W       S                   BASE RD            STOP
280 W       S                   250 S              STOP
280 W       N                   1000 S             STOP
300 W       N                   1100 S             STOP
320 W       N                   700 S              STOP
350 W       N                   640 N              STOP
350 W       S                   240 NW             STOP
350 W       N                   500 N              STOP
350 W       S                   500 N              STOP
350 W       N                   BASE RD            STOP
350 W       N                   700 S              STOP
350 W       S                   1050 S             STOP
400 W       S                   650 N              STOP
400 W       N                   240 NW             STOP
400 W       S                   BASE RD            STOP
400 W       S                   1100 S             STOP
400 W       N                   1100 S             STOP
400 W       N                   1050 S             STOP
420 W       S                   350 N              STOP
420 W       S                   500 N              STOP
420 W       N                   500 N              STOP
420 W       N                   800 S              STOP
420 W       S                   800 S              STOP
420 W       N                   950 S              STOP
420 W       S                   950 S              STOP
420 W       N                   700 S              STOP
420 W       N                   OLD U.S. 421       STOP
420 W       S                   OLD U.S. 421       STOP
450 W       S                   750 N              STOP
450 W       N                   300 N              STOP
450 W       S                   240 NW             STOP
450 W       S                   500 S              STOP
450 W       N                   BASE RD            STOP
450 W       N                   400 S              STOP
450 W       S                   400 S              STOP
500 W       S                   BASE RD            STOP
500 W       S                   100 N              STOP
500 W       N                   240 NW             STOP
500 W       S                   240 NW             STOP
500 W       N                   300 N              STOP
520 W       S                   300 N              STOP
520 W       N                   OLD U.S. 421       STOP
550 W       N                   BASE RD            STOP
550 W       S                   450 S              STOP
550 W       N                   300 S              STOP
550 W       S                   300 S              STOP
580 W       S                   750 N              STOP
580 W       N                   950 S              STOP
600 W       S                   BASE RD            STOP
600 W       N                   700 S              STOP
600 W       S                   700 S              STOP
600 W       N                   500 S              STOP
600 W       S                   500 S              STOP
600 W       N                   300 S              STOP
600 W       S                   300 S              STOP
600 W       N                   450 S              STOP
600 W       S                   450 S              STOP
600 W       N                   800 S              STOP
600 W       S                   800 S              STOP
600 W       N                   950 S              STOP
600 W       S                   950 S              STOP
600 W       N                   1100 S             STOP
600 W       S                   1100 S             STOP
600 W       S                   1300 S             STOP
600 W       N                   1300 S             STOP
600 W       N                   100 N              STOP
600 W       N                   OLD U.S. 421       STOP
650 W       S                   750 N              STOP
650 W       N                   750 N              STOP
650 W       S                   650 N              STOP
650 W       N                   650 N              STOP
650 W       N                   450 N              STOP
650 W       N                   OLD U.S. 421       STOP
650 W       S                   300 N              STOP
700 W       S                   240 NW             STOP
700 W       NS                  240 NW             STOP
700 W       S                   100 N              STOP
700 W       N                   100 N              STOP
700 W       N                   100 S              STOP
700 W       N                   200 S              STOP
700 W       S                   200 S              STOP
700 W       N                   700 S              STOP
700 W       S                   700 S              STOP
700 W       N                   1100 S             STOP
700 W       S                   1100 S             STOP
750 W       S                   80N                STOP
750 W       N                   80 N               STOP
750 W       S                   480 S              STOP
800 W       N                   700 S              STOP
800 W       N                   1100 S             STOP
800 W       S                   1100 S             STOP
800 W       S                   50 N               STOP
850 W       N                   100 S              STOP
850 W       S                   100 S              STOP
850 W       S                   200 S              STOP
850 W       N                   200 S              STOP
850 W       S                   700 S              STOP
850 W       N                   600 S              STOP
850 W       S                   600 S              STOP
850 W       N                   50 N               STOP
900 W       N                   700 S              STOP
900 W       N                   850 S              STOP
900 W       S                   850 S              STOP
900 W       S                   1000 S             STOP
900 W       N                   1000 S             STOP
900 W       S                   1100 S             STOP
950 W       S                   500 S              STOP
950 W       N                   1200 S             STOP
950 W       S                   1200 S             STOP
950 W       N                   1300 S             STOP
950 W       S                   1300 S             STOP
950 W       S                   1400 S             STOP
950 W       N                   1100 S             STOP
1000 W      N                   DEC/SHELBY         STOP
1000 W      N                   50 N               STOP
1000 W      S                   50 N               STOP
1000 W      S                   600 S              STOP
1000 W      N                   600 S              STOP
1000 W      N                   700 S              STOP
1000 W      S                   700 S              STOP
1000 W      N                   850 S              STOP
1000 W      S                   850 S              STOP
1000 W      S                   1000 S             STOP
1020 W      N                   1000 S             STOP
1020 W      S                   1100 S             STOP
1050 W      N                   100 S              STOP
1050 W      S                   200 S              STOP
1050 W      N                   200 S              STOP
1050 W      N                   600 S              STOP
1050 W      N                   1100 S             STOP
1050 W      N                   1200 S             STOP
1050 W      S                   1200 S             STOP
1050 W      S                   1400 S             STOP
BASE RD     E                   600 E              STOP
BASE RD     W                   600 E              STOP
BASE RD     E                   850 E              STOP
BASE RD     W                   850 E              STOP
BASE RD     W                   700 W              STOP
BASE RD     E                   250 W              STOP
BASE RD     E                   850 W              STOP
BASE RD     N                   700 S              STOP
BASE RD     N                   800 S              STOP
BASE RD     S                   800 S              STOP
BASE RD     S                   900 S              STOP
FRONTAGE RD N                   BASE RD            STOP
FRONTAGE RD E                   420 W              STOP
FRONTAGE RD W                   850 E              STOP
OAK COURT   N                   BASE RD            STOP
MAEDOW DR   E                   120 E              STOP
PLEASANT DR E                   120 E              STOP
GRAY ST     N                   PLEASANT DR        STOP
GRAY ST     S                   MAEDOW DR          STOP
 
      (2)   Adams sign ordinance.
Road Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
Road  Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
290 N SE                  425 W        STOP
290 N NW                  300 N        STOP
310 N SE                  425 W        STOP
310 N NW                  430 W        STOP
310 N SE                  430 W        STOP
320 N SE                  425 W        STOP
320 N NW                  425 W        STOP
320 N NW                  430 W        STOP
320 N SE                  430 W        STOP
325 N SE                  425 W        STOP
325 N NW                  430 W        STOP
325 N SE                  430 W        STOP
325 N NW                  435 W        STOP
335 N E                   420 W        STOP
335 N W                   430 W        STOP
335 N E                   430 W        STOP
340 N E                   430 W        STOP
340 N W                   430 W        STOP
340 N E                   420 W        STOP
345 N E                   420 W        STOP
425 W NE                  300 N        STOP
425 W N                   450 W        STOP
430 W E                   420 W        STOP
 
      (3)   Alert sign ordinance.
 
Road   Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
1260 S W                   1050 W       STOP
 
      (4)   Burney sign ordinance.
Road Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
Road  Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
150 S W                   850 W        STOP
140 S W                   850 W        STOP
130 S W                   850 W        STOP
125 E W                   850 W        STOP
125 S W                   850 W        STOP
120 S E                   850 W        STOP
120 S W                   850 W        STOP
110 S E                   850 W        STOP
110 S W                   850 W        STOP
855 W N                   100 S        STOP
110 S W                   855 S        STOP
120 S W                   855 W        STOP
140 S E                   845 W        STOP
130 S E                   845 W        STOP
125 S E                   845 W        STOP
120 S E                   845 W        STOP
110 S E                   845 W        STOP
845 W N                   100 S        STOP
 
      (5)   Clarksburg sign ordinance.
Road Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
Road  Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
685 E N                   640 N        STOP
685 E S                   620 N        STOP
620 N R                   700 E        STOP
690 E S                   620 N        STOP
690 E N                   640 N        STOP
690 E S                   640 N        STOP
690 E N                   645 N        STOP
680 E S                   640 N        STOP
680 E N                   645 N        STOP
645 N E                   700 E        STOP
645 N W                   700 E        STOP
700 E N                   640 N        STOP
700 E S                   640 N        STOP
640 N E                   700 E        STOP
640 N W                   700 E        STOP
 
      (6)   Forest Hill sign ordnance.
Road Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
Road  Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
545 S W                   700 W        STOP
695 W S                   545 S        STOP
695 W N                   545 S        STOP
535 S E                   695 W        STOP
535 S W                   695 W        STOP
535 S W                   700 W        STOP
525 S E                   695 W        STOP
525 S W                   695 W        STOP
525 S W                   700 W        STOP
695 W W                   700 W        STOP
 
      (7)   Letts sign ordinance.
 
Road  Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
465 W S                   700 S        STOP
460 W S                   700 S        STOP
460 W N                   700 S        STOP
455 W S                   710 S        STOP
455 W N                   700 S        STOP
450 W N                   700 S        STOP
 
      (8)   Milford sign ordinance.
Road Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
Road  Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
105 N E                   700 W        STOP
700 W S                   100 N        STOP
735 W S                   100 N        STOP
735 W N                   100 N        STOP
100 N E                   745 W        STOP
100 N W                   745 W        STOP
745 W S                   100 N        STOP
745 W N                   100 N        STOP
745 W S                   105 N        STOP
745 W N                   105 N        STOP
750 W N                   105 N        STOP
750 W S                   105 N        STOP
750 W N                   100 N        STOP
750 W S                   100 N        STOP
755 W S                   100 N        STOP
755 W N                   105 N        STOP
760 W S                   100 N        STOP
750 W S                   95 N         STOP
750 W N                   95 N         STOP
95 N  E                   750 W        STOP
95 N  W                   750 W        STOP
745 W N                   95 N         STOP
745 W S                   95 N         STOP
735 W N                   95 N         STOP
735 W S                   95 N         STOP
95 N  N                   100 N        STOP
90 N  N                   95 N         STOP
735 W N                   90 N         STOP
735 W S                   90 N         STOP
745 W N                   90 N         STOP
745 W S                   90 N         STOP
90 N  W                   750 W        STOP
85 N  W                   750 W        STOP
745 W S                   85 N         STOP
734 W S                   85 N         STOP
 
      (9)   Sandusky sign ordinance.
Road Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
Road  Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
10 E  N                   580 N        STOP
10 E  S                   570 N        STOP
10 E  N                   570 N        STOP
10 E  N                   560 N        STOP
10 E  S                   560 N        STOP
10 E  S                   550 N        STOP
560 N E                   20 E         STOP
570 N E                   20 E         STOP
20 E  N                   580 N        STOP
 
      (10)   Sardinia sign ordinance.
 
Road  Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
810 W S                   1270 S       STOP
795 W S                   1250 S       STOP
790 W N                   1250 S       STOP
 
      (11)   St. Maurice sign ordinance.
Road Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
Road         Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
200 N        E                   850 E        STOP
200 N        W                   850 E        STOP
ST. NICHOLAS E                   850 E        STOP
ST. NICHOLAS W                   ST. JOHN     STOP
ST. JOHN     N                   200 N        STOP
ST. JOSEPH   W                   ST. JOHN     STOP
ST. JOSEPH   E                   850 E        STOP
 
      (12)   Waynsburg sign ordinance.
 
Road   Direction of Travel Intersection Sign
1030 W S                   850 S        STOP
1030 W N                   830 S        STOP
830 S  E                   1000 W       STOP
 
   (B)   A person who violates this schedule shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $500.
(Ord. 2013-3, passed 2-4-2013; Ord. 2013-4, passed 2-4-2013)
SCHEDULE III: WEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   The maximum load limit for certain bridges in the county shall be
reduced as provided in the then current Bridge Reinspection Study and Report,
Decatur County, Indiana.
   (B)   Two copies of the above-referenced volume shall be kept at the office
of the County Auditor for public inspection. Any changes in that document shall
be incorporated by reference into this section.
   (C)   The County Highway Superintendent shall post signs at all bridges
where weight limits are reduced by this section.
   (D)   Any individual who violates this section shall be subject to a fine of
not more than $500.
(Ord. 1992-5, passed 12-14-1992; Ord. 2013-15, passed 12-16-2013)
SCHEDULE IV:  TRUCKS AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or move, or for the
owner to cause or knowingly permit to be operated or moved upon the roads
designated in this Schedule any vehicle having a gross weight in excess of
26,000 pounds gross vehicle weight rating.
   (B)   The roads where the limits of this Schedule apply are:
      (1)   County Road 800 South between State Road #3 and 420 West;
      (2)   County Road 420 West between 800 South and 950 South;
      (3)   County Road 950 South between 420 West and State Road #3;
      (4)   County Road 1100 South between 800 West and State Road #3;
      (5)   County Road 800 West between 1100 South and State Road #3;
      (6)   County Road 700 West from State Road #3 to Jennings County line.
   (C)   The provisions of this Schedule do not apply to:
      (1)   Implements of husbandry, when so constructed that they can be moved
without material damage of the highway;
      (2)   Firefighting apparatus owned or operated by a political subdivision
or volunteer fire company;
      (3)   Vehicles transporting farm commodities if the transport begins or
terminates on one of the roads designated in this Schedule.
   (D)   Effective dates of said limits: September 1, 2018 - November 30, 2018.
   (E)   The County Highway Department shall post appropriate signs giving
notice of the prohibitions of this Schedule.
   (F)   Any person who violates this Schedule commits a Class C infraction.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 2-19-2018; Ord. 2018-3, Amendment 1, passed 5-21-2018;
Ord. 2018-3, Amendment 2, passed 8-20-2018)
Cross reference:
   Permits; transporting heavy vehicles and loads, see §
70.04   
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Limited parking
SCHEDULE I:  LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   Only vehicles which are owned or operated by employees of the
county may be parked in the lot at the northeast corner of Franklin and Main
Streets between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
      (2)   Any vehicle which has been parked in this lot in violation of this
division (A) shall be towed to a secure location at the owner's expense.
      (3)   The County Highway Department shall place a sign or signs at the
appropriate locations to notify the public that use of the parking lot is
limited to county employees and that vehicles parked in violation of this
division (A) shall be towed at the owner's expense.
   (B)   Motor vehicles of persons other than county employees hereafter parked
upon the county's parking lot shall be towed away to a specific location and
impounded until the towing charges have been paid by the owner or operator of
such vehicle.
   (C)   On the south side of Washington Street, between Franklin and Broadway
Streets (the north side of the courthouse), parking shall be reserved for
courthouse patrons that are in the Decatur County courthouse conducting
business, including jurors, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
      (1)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this division (C) shall first be
cited by any available law enforcement personnel, and then towed to a secure
location at the owner's expense. Such towed vehicles shall be impounded until
the towing charges have been paid.
      (2)   The County Highway Department shall place a sign or signs at the
appropriate locations to notify the public that use of the parking spaces is
limited to courthouse patrons and that vehicles parked in violation of this
division (C) from 7:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. shall be cited and towed at the
owners expenses. Penalty fees shall be $20 plus court costs.
(Ord. 1-1985, passed 5-20-1985; Ord. 1998-6, passed - -1998; Ord. 2015-2,
passed 5-18-2015)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL REGULATION
      
91.   FAIR HOUSING
      
92.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMAL REGULATION
Section
   
90.01   Animal control employees
   
90.02   Owner responsibility
   
90.03   Impoundments
   
90.04   Adoption
   
90.05   Interference
   
90.06   Kennels
   
90.07   Headings
 
   
90.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Fee Schedule
§ 90.01  ANIMAL CONTROL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Animal Control Manager and staff are authorized to uphold, carry
out and supervise the enforcement of this chapter within the county. The Animal
Control Manager and staff are authorized to apprehend and impound any animal
that strays or is at large, and to impound any animal when the Animal Control
Manager or staff have probable cause to believe that the animal has been
treated cruelly, inhumanely, neglected or used by the owner/agent in a fighting
contest.
   (B)   The Animal Control Manager and staff are authorized to issue official
warnings or notices of ordinance violation for violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 90.02  OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Except for the application of customary practices of agriculture
relating to husbandry and livestock care, every person who owns, possesses or
harbors an animal within the county shall see that the animal:
      (1)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary and healthy manner and is not confined
so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in its own excrement;
      (2)   Is not restrained by a rope, wire, chain or other metal collar
attached directly to the neck;
      (3)   If chained or tied outside, shall have available at all times for
that animal, a chain, leash or lead, not less than ten feet or two and one-half
lengths of the animal, whichever is the greater; however, this chain, leash or
lead cannot allow the animal to enter onto another person’s property or onto
the public right-of-way;
      (4)   Has sufficient and wholesome food and water, proper for that
species of animal;
      (5)   Has a proper and adequate structure provided that will protect that
animal from all elements of the weather and will allow that animal to stand,
sit and lie down without restriction;
      (6)   If ill, diseased or injured, receives care as necessary to prevent
the transmittal of the disease to other animals or prolong the suffering of the
injured animal;
      (7)   Is not beaten, cruelly treated, overloaded, overworked or otherwise
abused; and
      (8)   Is not physically altered in any manner by anyone other than a
veterinarian with the exception of tattooing and grooming.
   (B)   Every female animal in heat or rutting shall be restrained within a
building or secure enclosure so that the animal cannot come into contact with a
male animal of the same species except for planned breeding.
   (C)   Dogs and cats shall not be allowed to run at large. Any dog or cat
which has strayed beyond the premises of its owner or onto a public street,
alley or highway, which is not under the reasonable control of some person, is
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be impounded. It is a violation of
this chapter for the owner of a dog or cat to allow the animal to stray beyond
the premises of its owner or onto a public street, alley or highway unless the
animal is under the control of some person.
   (D)   No domestic animal shall be allowed to cause a nuisance, by damaging
property, chasing or attacking persons or vehicles, running at large or
otherwise interfering with persons or other domestic animals on property other
than that of the owner.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 9-7-2010)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03  IMPOUNDMENTS.
   (A)   Any dog or cat found running at large shall be impounded by the Animal
Control Authority in an animal shelter and confined in a humane manner. Dogs
and cats not claimed by their owners within three business days in which the
shelter is open to the public shall be deemed abandoned and may be adopted out
or otherwise disposed of by the Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control Board.
   (B)   When a dog or cat is found running at large and its ownership is
verified by the Animal Control Authority, the Animal Control Authority may
exercise the option of serving the owner with a notice of violation and fine in
lieu of or in addition to impounding the animal.
   (C)   Any animal impounded or confined for rabies quarantine, evidence or
other purpose may be redeemed by its owner upon payment of a boarding fee and
any expenses related to pick-up and care of the animal prior to release.
      (1)   No animal required to be vaccinated under state law may be redeemed
until provisions for such vaccinations have been fulfilled.
      (2)   Payment of impoundment fees is not considered to be in lieu of any
fine or penalty.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 90.04  ADOPTION.
   (A)   An adoption fee shall be assessed at the time of adoption.
   (B)   No dog or cat shall be released for adoption as a pet without being
neutered.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 90.05  INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall interfere with, hinder or molest any agent of the
Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Control Board in the performance of any duty.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 90.06  KENNELS.
   (A)   Kennels shall be subject to inspection by the Animal Control Authority
and must meet standards for health and cleanliness as set by that authority.
The Animal Control Board is authorized to adopt a schedule of fines for
violations of these standards, and to impose fines for violations separately or
in addition to impounding animals.
   (B)   The number of animals which constitute a kennel, location restrictions
and construction requirements for kennels shall be determined by the provisions
of the county zoning and building ordinances.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 90.07  HEADINGS.
   The headings or titles of the several sections in this chapter shall be
solely for convenience of reference and shall not affect the meaning,
construction or effect of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   The Animal Control Board is authorized to adopt a schedule of adoption
fees, impoundment fees and fines for violations of this chapter, subject to
approval by the Board of County Commissioners, which shall be posted at the
Animal Shelter and at the County Courthouse.
   (B)   All fines and impoundment redemption expenses collected by Greensburg-
Decatur County Animal Control shall be deposited into the County General Fund.
Adoption fees shall be deposited in the spay/neuter program fund and are to be
used to pay the costs of vetting animals prior to adoption.
   (C)   Payment of ordinance violation notices shall be made at the
Greensburg-Decatur County Animal Shelter, 1635 West Park Road, Greensburg,
Indiana 47240 within ten days from the date of issuance. Unpaid fines may be
collected through legal proceedings brought in the name of the county, with the
cost of those proceedings plus attorney fees to be added to the amount owed.
   (D)   For purposes of determining fines, fees and penalties for any
subsequent violations, violations prior to the enactment of new or revised
ordinances shall apply.
   (E)   A person who has accumulated three or more written violations within
365 days may be declared to be a habitual offender and may be subject to one or
more of the following: having animal(s) immediately confiscated by the Animal
Control Officer; or a notice violation of $250.
   (F)   A person may appeal any notice, order or fine issued by the Animal
Control Officer or other employee of the Department by sending a written notice
within 72 hours by certified mail to: Greensburg Decatur County Animal Control
Board, 1635 West Park Road, Greensburg, Indiana 47240. Any appeal must include
a mailing address and telephone number for the Board’s use in scheduling an
appeal. The Animal Control Board shall schedule a hearing on the appeal and
shall notify the appellant of the time and date of the appeal within 60 days
after it has been received.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2012-10, passed 11-19-2012)
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE
Impoundments Fees and Policies
Pick-up BUSINESS HOURS               $30
Pick-up AFTER HOURS/EMERGENCY      $50
Tranquilizing Fee                     $50
Boarding (per night)                     $10
A)   Dogs and cats not claimed by their owners within three business days in
which the shelter is open to the public shall be deemed abandoned and may be
adopted out or otherwise disposed of by Greensburg-Decatur County Animal
Control.
B)   No animal required to be vaccinated under state law may be redeemed until
provisions for such vaccinations have been fulfilled. Payment of impoundments
fees is not considered to be in lieu of any fine or penalty.
Ordinance Violations and Policies
§
90.02  Owner Responsibility      $100 per infraction
§
90.06    Kennel Standards         $100 per infraction
§
90.05    Interference            Not less than $250 nor more than $2,500
A)   First offenses will be issued a warning (with exception of severe neglect/
abuse) with corrective action to be completed within time designated.
Adoptions
Dogs:            $100
Cats:            $75
Cats pre-altered:      $40
Adoption fees shall be deposited in the spay/neuter program fund and are to be
used to pay the costs of vetting animals prior to adoption.
(Ord. 2010-4, passed 9-7-2010)
CHAPTER 91:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
91.01   Policy statement
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Unlawful practice
   
91.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
91.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
91.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
91.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
91.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
91.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
91.10   Exemptions
   
91.11   Administrative enforcement of chapter
§ 91.01  POLICY STATEMENT.
    It shall be the policy of the county to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et. seq.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 91.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The Indiana Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-
9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§ 91.04,
91.05, 91.06, 91.07 or 91.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined in FAMILIAL STATUS above.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person's major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990;
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 IAC 2-3.
      (2)   HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or addictions to
a controlled substance as defined in Section 802 of Title 21 of the United
States Code 910 IAC 2-3-2(14); nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual
solely because that individual is a transvestite 910 IAC 2-3-2(14).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under Title 11 of the United States Code, receivers, and
fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT.  Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 91.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
91.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and §
91.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
91.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
91.04(C) but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title; or
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his own personal residence, in providing sales or
rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale or
rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 91.04  DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
91.03 and except as exempted by §§
91.03(B) and
91.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin.
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (C)   To make, print, or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person; or
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this division, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13,1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   all the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
            (d)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility an usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as J ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements
of division (H)(3)(c)3 above.
         (4)   Nothing in this division requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health of safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 91.05  DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 91.06  DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the
terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation, on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 91.07  INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his having exercised
or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or encouraged any other person in
the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by §§
91.03,
91.04,
91.05 or
91.06.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 91.08  PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or negotiating for
the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or
applying for or participating in any service, organization, or facility
relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings; or
   (B)   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he is or has been, or in order to discourage such
citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons
to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (A) above, or
participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local, state and
federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more than $10,000
or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death results shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 91.09  EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 CFR Part 5.403 and 24 CFR Part 574.3 the definition of FAMILY
is revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 91.10  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C ) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program); or
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 91.11  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
county.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the county, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the ordinance, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the Indiana Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief
elected official of the county shall refer all said complaints to the
Commission as provided for under division (A) above to said Commission for
purposes of investigation, resolution and appropriate relief as provided for
under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the county shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the county, or the chief elected
official's designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2018-11, passed 7-16-2018)
CHAPTER 92:  PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
92.01   Accumulation of litter and the like
   
92.02   Owner/occupant responsibility
   
92.03   Notice
   
92.04   Appeal
   
92.05   County to abate; cost
   
92.06   Action in court
   
92.07   Enforcement
§ 92.01  ACCUMULATION OF LITTER AND THE LIKE.
   The accumulation cf litter, trash and junk on any property is a public
nuisance and shall be abated.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 92.02  OWNER/OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner or occupant of any real estate, including vacant lots in the
county, outside of incorporated cities and towns, shall maintain such premises
to prevent the accumulation of litter, trash and junk, including wastepaper,
boxes, rags, glass, cans, bottles, lumber, construction debris, building
materials, tires, tree limbs, metal, motors, inoperable unlicensed vehicles,
unlicensed trailers, inoperable equipment and machinery, appliances, furniture,
plastics and other such items.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 92.03  NOTICE.
   (A)   The officer designated to enforce this chapter shall serve notice upon
the owner and the occupant of any premises where nuisance conditions exist in
violation of this chapter, requiring that the conditions be corrected within 15
days.
   (B)   Notice may be delivered personally to an adult owner or occupant or by
certified U.S. mail, addressed to the owner as shown on the tax duplicate or to
the owner or occupant at the address of the property.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 92.04  APPEAL.
   Any person upon whom a notice has been served to abate a nuisance under this
chapter may file a written appeal with the Board of County Commissioners within
15 days after service of that notice. The Board of Commissioners shall hear and
make a determination on the appeal.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 92.05  COUNTY TO ABATE; COST.
   (A)   If the nuisance conditions on any property have not been abated within
the time specified in the notice, the county may abate the nuisance, and the
costs thereof, including administrative costs, shall be the responsibility of
the owner of the property.
   (B)   Upon completion of the cleanup of any property, the enforcing
authority shall send a statement of costs to the owner and occupant by
certified U.S. mail. The notice shall include a statement that the owner is
responsible for payment of the costs and shall allow 30 days for payment.
Payment shall be made to the address designated on the notice.
   (C)   If the costs of abatement remain unpaid after 30 days, the enforcing
authority shall certify that obligation to the County Auditor.
      (1)   The certification shall contain a description of the property
cleaned up, including tax parcel number, and shall certify the actual cost and
expense incurred, including administrative expenses.
      (2)   The enforcing authority shall mail a copy of the certification to
the owner as shown by the tax duplicate.
      (3)   The County Auditor shall thereupon enter the cost and expense so
certified on the tax duplicate, and such cost and expense shall be collected in
the same manner as property taxes are now collected and shall remain a lien on
the real estate until paid in full.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 92.06  ACTION IN COURT.
   The county acting through the enforcing authority, may in the name of the
county, bring an action in court for the recovery of costs incurred by the
county in cleaning up certain properties pursuant to this chapter, or for
mandatory and injunctive relief for the enforcement of, and to secure
compliance with, any provision of this chapter, or to bring an action to
recover any penalties and costs incurred by the county in cleaning up the
property, plus a reasonable attorney fee and court costs.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 5-17-2004)
§ 92.07  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners shall designate one or more
officials to enforce this chapter.
   (B)   The Commissioners may contract with outside agencies to perform
cleanup services or may provide labor and equipment for that work.
(Ord. 2004-5, passed 5-17-2004)
CHAPTER 93:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   Application of chapter
   
93.03   Enforcement
   
93.04   Notice
   
93.05   Lien holder responsible
   
93.06   Abandoned vehicle report
   
93.07   Disposal
   
93.08   Regulations applicable
§ 93.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance if the
impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or the owner’s agent
within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal; and/or
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 20 days. For purposes of this subdivision, a
vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber, cloth, or
textile covering is considered to be visible.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 93.02  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty-assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard; or
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 93.03  ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq. for the disposal of abandoned
vehicles are hereby incorporated within this chapter. The office of the County
Building Commissioner shall be the agency responsible for enforcement of this
chapter. The County Building Commissioner is designated as the enforcement
officer pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-2.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 93.04  NOTICE.
   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to be
abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
   (A)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
   (B)   That the vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
   (C)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after: i) 24 hours, if the
vehicle is located on or within the right-of-way of an interstate highway or
any highway that is designated as part of the state highway system under I.C.
8-23-4 or ii) 72 hours for any other vehicle;
   (D)   That the person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle; and
   (E)   That the person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within: i) 24 hours, if the vehicle is located on or within
the right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as
part of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4 or ii) 72 hours for any
other vehicle.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 93.05  LIEN HOLDER RESPONSIBLE.
   A person who owns or holds a lien on an abandoned vehicle or parts is liable
for all costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or
parts.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 93.06  ABANDONED VEHICLE REPORT.
   If a vehicle or part tagged under §
93.04 is not removed within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a
written abandoned vehicle report,  including information on the condition,
missing parts and other facts that might substantiate the estimated market
value of the vehicle or parts. Photographs shall be taken to describe the
condition of the vehicle or parts.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 93.07  DISPOSAL.
   For purposes of disposing of an abandoned vehicle or parts, if in the
opinion of the officer the value of the vehicle or parts is $500 or less, the
officer shall immediately dispose of the vehicle to an automobile scrap yard. A
copy of the abandoned vehicle report and photographs relating to the abandoned
vehicle shall be forwarded to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles. The agency
disposing of the vehicle shall retain the original records and photographs for
at least two years.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 9-7-2004)
§ 93.08  REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   The regulations established by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall apply to
the disposal of any abandoned vehicle or parts which, in the opinion of the
officer, have a value of more than $500.
(Ord. 2004-14, passed 9-7-2004)
CHAPTER 94:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Entrances to County Highway System
   
94.01   Scope
   
94.02   Permit application
   
94.03   Time
   
94.04   Maintenance
   
94.05   Other permits required
Permits for Construction
   
94.10   Permits for construction across or along any highway
 
   
94.99   Penalty
ENTRANCES TO COUNTY HIGHWAY SYSTEM
§ 94.01  SCOPE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to access for
any purpose, any road, street, highway or alley in the county highway system
without first constructing an appropriate access to such roadway in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct
an entrance, driveway, approach or mailbox approach which connects to any road,
street, highway or alley in the county highway system without first making
application for a permit and receiving said permit to construct such entrance,
driveway, approach or mailbox approach. No construction on the county right-of-
way shall commence prior to the receipt of the approved permit.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to fill any
drain or ditch which is located within the county right-of-way without first
filing with the County Highway Department an application for and receiving a
permit for such work.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter pertaining to the permit fee shall not
apply to work being done by any city, town, municipal corporation or any
county, or by any agency of the state, provided that such entities shall comply
with all other applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   This chapter applies only to that portion of any driveway or access or
drainage modification which is within the county right-of-way.
   (F)   Any access or drainage modification in use on the date of adoption of
this chapter is exempt from the provisions and will remain exempt until such
time as there is a modification to the use of the access or drainage
modification or until such time as the use of the adjoining property changes or
until such time as an improvement is made to the adjoining property which
requires the acquisition of a building permit.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 7-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02  PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Before an approach or drainage modification is constructed under the
provisions of this chapter, an application for a permit for such construction
shall be made to the County Highway Department office. The application shall be
on a form approved by the County Highway Department and shall be accompanied by
a site plan, supporting analyses and designs certified by a professional
engineer licensed in the state, unless the requirement for certification is
waived by the County Highway Department. The application shall be signed by the
applicant and by the owner of the property.
   (B)   When a proposed access crosses one or more parcels to provide access
to an additional parcel, an access easement must be properly obtained and
recorded in the office of the County Recorder. The proposed access easement for
such an access shall be submitted with the application. A copy of the recorded
easement shall be submitted to the County Highway Department prior to
completing the construction of the work.
   (C)   The applicant for each permit to construct an access or modify a
drainage ditch as provided by this chapter shall pay a fee of $50 to the County
Highway Department to defray the cost of processing the permit application and
inspecting the construction of the work.
   (D)   (1)   The following information shall be shown on the site plan or
attached to the application:
         (a)   Property lines;
         (b)   Road right-of-way;
         (c)   Distance from intersecting roads;
         (d)   Width and type of road surface;
         (r)   Existing drainage features, including ditch cross section,
culvert type and size and other drainage features;
         (f)   Proposed drainage features, including hydraulic analyses of any
proposed improvements;
         (g)   Locations of existing driveways and structures;
         (h)   Locations of proposed driveways and structures;
         (i)   Width and type of surface of proposed driveway;
         (j)   Copy of plat for platted parcels;
         (k)   Name, address and telephone number of the constructor;
         (l)   Copy of a proposed easement for ingress and egress when the
proposed driveway crosses property other than the parcel where the drive
terminates (the easement shall be recorded and a copy of the recorded easement
delivered to the County Highway Department after the permit application is
approved and before the construction is completed); and
         (m)   Other pertinent information requested by the County Highway
Department.
      (2)   Applications for driveways or mailbox approaches serving multi-
family residential, commercial or industrial property shall also include the
following information in addition to the information prescribed above:
         (a)   Proposed parking locations and arrangements.
         (b)   Proposed traffic control devices.
         (c)   Proposed limitations on the use of driveways, such as entrance
only, exit only, employees only, trucks only, etc.
         (d)   Location of any loading docks or other special access features.
   (E)   Within 30 days of the receipt of a complete application as set forth
in this chapter, the County Highway Department shall either issue a permit for
the construction of the approach or deny the application and inform the
applicant the reasons for denying the application. Permits may be issued with
modifications to the proposed site plan or other restrictions. No work shall
commence on the construction of the approach until the permit has been issued.
The permit shall be retained at the site of the construction and shall be
displayed to any county official requesting to see the permit.
   (F)   The County Highway Department shall retain in their files all
applications and a copy of all permits issued. All permits issued in compliance
with this chapter shall be an original and two copies. The original shall be
issued to the applicant, one copy shall be retained by the County Highway
Department and the other copy shall be forwarded to the County Building
Department.
   (G)   The County Highway Department, with approval of the Board of
Commissioners, shall adopt written specifications for access or drainage
improvements, which shall be minimum requirements, unless a design prepared and
certified by a licensed professional engineer and approved by the County
Highway Department determines that lesser standards are appropriate for a
particular situation. These standards may be increased when determined by an
engineering evaluation that particular situations will require greater
standards.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 94.03  TIME.
   A permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a period of one year
from the date of the issuance of the permit. After on year the permit shall
become void unless an extension is applied for prior to the expiration of the
permit. All construction shall be completed by the expiration date of the
permit. Application for the extension of the permit shall be made to the County
Highway Department on a form approved by the County Highway Department. The
extension of a permit shall be subject to any new requirements enacted since
the issuance of the original permit and shall be subject to the applicant
paying a new permit fee in effect at the time of applying for the extension.
The County Highway Department shall within 14 days of date of application for
the extension either extend the permit for a one-year period or provide in
writing the reasons for the denial of the extension of the permit.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 94.04  MAINTENANCE.
   Any applicant receiving a permit constructing the approach or modifying the
drainage ditch shall be responsible to maintain that portion of the approach or
drainage modification which is within the public right-of-way, including any
culvert pipes or other drainage structures and drainage ditches, in good
condition and in such a manner as to prevent any obstruction or interference
with the roadway, the traffic thereon, or with any drain or ditch which serves
the roadway. The requirement for maintenance shall  remain as long as the
access or drainage modification remains. The responsibility for maintenance
shall be transferred to all subsequent owners of the property.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 7-20-1998)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05  OTHER PERMITS REQUIRED.
   The County Building Department shall not issue a building permit for the
construction or remodeling of any structure until a permit is issued in
conformance with this chapter. However, a permit is required for the
construction of any access or modification of any ditch under the provisions of
this chapter whether or not a building permit is required.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 7-20-1998)
PERMITS FOR CONSTRUCTION
§ 94.10  PERMITS FOR CONSTRUCTION ACROSS OR ALONG ANY HIGHWAY.
   Any permit or road usage agreement issued in connection with a construction
project or the installation of a pipe line, conduit, or private drain shall
contain the minimum requirements included in the Appendix attached to and made
a part of Ord. 2014-14.
(Ord. 2014-14, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   A person that violates any provision of this chapter shall be assessed a
civil penalty of not more than $500. Each additional day of violation
constitutes a separate violation.
(Ord. 1998-5, passed 7-20-1998)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT; BED AND BREAKFAST
CHAPTER 110: RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT; BED AND BREAKFAST
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Permits
   
110.03   Permit fees
   
110.04   Inspection
Violations, Appeals and the Like
   
110.15   Application denial
   
110.16   Ceasing operations, reporting and resumption of operations
   
110.17   Outstanding fee
   
110.18   Enforcement options
   
110.19   Appeals
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT.  An operator-occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more that 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   CERTIFIED FOOD HANDLER.  A person who has gained certification from a state
recognized training program that oversees food safety operations within the
retail food establishment.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.  A situation in which the private financial interest
of Health Official, Health Official’s spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws,
children and/or emancipated child, may influence the Health Official’s judgment
in the performance of a public duty.
   COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH.  The local Department of Health in Decatur
County or authorized representative having jurisdiction over a bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and temporary food
establishment.
   CRITICAL ITEM.  A provision of this rule that, if in noncompliance, is more
likely than other violations to significantly contribute to food contamination,
illness or environmental health hazard.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN.  A written document
that delineates the formal procedures for following the hazard analysis
critical control point principles developed by the National Advisory Committee
on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The person having jurisdiction in Decatur County or his or
her duly authorized representative.
   HEALTH OFFICIAL.  Any employee of the County Department of Health or
authorized  representative classified as having authorization to inspect a bed
and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and temporary food
establishment.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD.  A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction or cessation of operation to prevent injury or illness based on the:
      (1)   Number of potential injuries or illnesses; and
      (2)   Nature, severity and duration of the anticipated injury or illness.
   INSPECTION REPORT.  The document prepared by the County Department of Health
that is completed as the result of the inspection of the Health Official and
provided to the operator.
   OPERATOR.  The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER.  A Decatur County Department of Health action of particular
applicability that determines the legal rights, duties, privileges, immunities
or other legal interests of one or more specific person. The terms include a
permit.
   PERMIT.  The document issued by the Decatur County Department of Health that
authorizes a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON.  An association; a corporation; an individual; partnership; or other
legal entity, government or governmental subdivision or agency.
   POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS FOOD.
      (1)   A food that is natural or synthetic and requires temperature
control because it is in a form capable of supporting any of the following:
         (a)   The rapid and progressive growth of infectious or toxigenic
microorganisms;
         (b)   The growth and toxin production of Clostridium botulinum; or
         (c)   In raw shell eggs, the growth of Salmonella enteritidis.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   A food of animal origin that is raw or heat-treated;
         (b)   A food of plant origin that is heat-treated or consists of raw
seed sprouts;
         (c)   Cut melons; and
         (d)   Garlic-in-oil mixtures that are not modified in a way that
results in mixtures that do not support growth as specified above.
   PREMISES.  The physical facility, its contents, and the contiguous property.
Included is the land or property if the retail food establishment is only one
component of a larger entity such as, health care facility, hotel, motel,
school, recreational camp or prison.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.  An operation that:
      (1)   Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends or otherwise provides
food for human consumption, such as the following:
         (a)   A restaurant;
         (b)   A satellite or catered location;
         (c)   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly to
a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people;
         (d)   A market;
         (e)   A grocery store;
         (f)   A convenience store;
         (g)   A vending location;
         (h)   A conveyance used to transport people;
         (i)   An institution;
         (j)   A food bank;
         (k)   A commissary;
         (l)   A cottage industry;
         (m)   A hospice facility;
         (n)   A health care facility;
         (o)   A health facility;
         (p)   A child care facility, such as the following:
            1.   Licensed child care center licensed under 470 I.A.C. 3-4.7;
            2.   Licensed child care institutions licensed under 465 I.A.C. 2-
9, 465 I.A.C. 2-10, and 465 I.A.C. 2-11; and/or
            3.   Registered child care ministries registered under 470 I.A.C.
3-4.5.
         (q)   An assisted living facility.
      (2)   Relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or
indirectly through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service that is provided by common
carriers.
      (3)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   An element of the operation, such as a transportation vehicle or
a central preparation facility that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority; and
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary or permanent facility or location, where consumption is on or off the
premises and regardless of whether there is a charge for the food.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.  A retail food establishment that operates for
a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event
or celebration with the approval of the organizers of the event or celebration.
(410 I.A.C. 7-24-98)
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 110.02  PERMITS.
   (A)   General. It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
the county, without first obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer.
      (1)   The valid permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the
bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary
food establishment.
      (2)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 will be entitled to obtain and keep a
permit.
      (3)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment or temporary food establishment
operated or to be operated by any person.
      (4)   A permit issued under this subchapter is not transferable.
      (5)   A bed and breakfast establishment and retail food establishment
permitted by County Department of Health shall be considered registered as
required in I.C. 16-42-1-6. (See 410 I.A.C. 7-24-107.)
      (6)   Temporary permits must be issued one week prior to operation and
may be used only during the time specified on the permit.
   (B)   Permit period. A permit for a bed and breakfast establishment and
retail food establishment shall be issued for a term beginning January 1 or one
week before commencement of operation and expiring December 31 of the same year
and shall be applied for by the person and/or operator annually. A permit for a
temporary food establishment shall be for a period of no more than 14
consecutive days in conjunction with a single event or celebration and applied
for one week before the event.
   (C)   Permit content. Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit
is granted;
      (2)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Signature of the Health Official and Health Officer.
   (D)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food  establishment and/or temporary food establishment
shall submit to the County Department of Health a written application for a
permit on a form provided by the County Health Department.
   (E)   Content of the application. The application shall include:
      (1)   The name and location of the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment or temporary establishment;
      (2)   Mailing address for permit renewal letter;
      (3)   Information on whether the bed and breakfast establishment, retail
food establishment or temporary food establishment is operated by an
association, corporation, individual, partnership or other legal entity;
      (4)   Establishment phone and fax number;
      (5)   Name, title and telephone number of operator;
      (6)   Name, title and telephone number of person in charge of zone,
district and/or region;
      (7)   Name of certified food handler;
      (8)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment or temporary food establishment if not permanent, is
mobile and/or temporary;
      (9)   A copy of the entire menu to be served at the bed and breakfast,
retail food establishment or temporary food establishment;
      (10)   The names, titles and addresses of:
         (a)   The person comprising the legal ownership as specified in
division (E)(3) above, including owners and operators; and
         (b)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership.
      (11)   The applicant’s signature stating that the information given is
accurate and gives allowance to the County Health Official full access of the
bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment or temporary food
establishment.
   (F)   Qualification. To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of this subchapter;
      (3)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment,
retail food establishment or temporary food establishment and provide required
information; and
      (4)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
   (G)   Plans requirements.
      (1)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed
retail food establishment shall submit to the County Department of Health
properly prepared plans and specifications for review before any of the
following:
         (a)   The construction of a retail food establishment;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a retail food
establishment; and
         (c)   The remodeling of a retail food establishment or a change of
type of retail food establishment or food operation if the regulatory authority
determines that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure compliance
with this rule.
      (2)   The retail food establishment owner or operator should use the 2000
Food Establishment Plan Review Guide and the Temporary Food Establishment owner
or operator should use the 2000 Pre-operational Guide for Temporary Retail Food
Establishment Plan Review Guide, both as published by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration and the Conference for Food Protection, as a source for
determining recommended equipment specifications and operational standards for
retail food establishments or temporary food establishment.
      (3)   The plans and specifications shall be approved by the County
Department of Health prior to construction and the operation of the retail food
establishment.
      (4)   The plans and specifications for a retail food establishment shall
include, based on the type of operation, type of food preparation and food
prepared, the following information to demonstrate compliance with this rule:
         (a)   Intended menu;
         (b)   Anticipated volume of food to be stored, prepared and sold or
served;
         (c)   Proposed layout, mechanical schematics, construction materials
and finish schedules;
         (d)   Proposed equipment types, manufactures, model numbers,
locations, dimensions, performance capacities and installation specifications;
         (e)   Evidence that standard procedures that ensure compliance with
this rule are developed or are being developed; and
         (f)   Other information that may be required by the County Department
of Health for the proper review of the proposed construction, conversion or
modification, and procedures for operating a retail food establishment.
   (H)   Certified food handler requirements.
      (1)   The state legislature has adopted I.C. 16-42-5.2,which provides for
mandatory certification of at least one person per food establishment, who
oversees food safety operations within the establishment; however, a certified
food handler need not be present at the food establishment during all hours of
operation.
      (2)   If a food establishment does not have a certified food handler
because the certified food handler terminates employment with the food
establishment, the owner or operator of the food establishment shall comply
with I.C. 16-42-5.2 not later then three months after termination date of the
previous certified food handler.
      (3)   Certified food handler requirement does not apply to the following
institutions:
         (a)   Hospitals licensed under I.C. 16-21;
         (b)   Health facilities licensed under I.C. 16-28;
         (c)   Housing with service establishments that are required to file
disclosure statements under I.C. 12-10-15; or
         (d)   Continuing care retirement communities required to file
disclosure statements under I.C. 23-2-4.
   (I)   Change of ownership. The County Department of Health may renew a
permit for an existing bed and breakfast establishment or retail food
establishment or may issue a permit to a new owner of an existing bed and
breakfast establishment or retail food establishment after a properly completed
application is submitted, reviewed and approved, the fees are paid, and an
inspection shows that the establishment is in compliance with this subchapter.
A food establishment that changes ownership shall comply with I.C. 16-42-5.2
not later than two months after changing ownership.
   (J)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the County Health Department, the operator in order to retain the permit
shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this subchapter and all laws and
rules adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted
by the State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the County
Department of Health if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the County Department of Health access to
the bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment or temporary
food establishment at all reasonable times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the County Department of Health including
time frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports, notices,
orders, warnings and other directives issued by the County Department of Health
in regard to the operator’s bed and breakfast establishment, retail food
establishment or temporary food establishment or in response to community
emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the County Health Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this subchapter or a
directive of the County Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment or temporary food establishment that
is conspicuous to consumers.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 3-20-2006)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03  PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in
the county, who has not paid the permit fee required to be paid for the
operation of such establishment.
      (2)   The fee shall be paid for a term beginning January 1, or before
commencement of operation, and expiring December 31 of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
      (3)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this subchapter to a
bed and breakfast establishment, retail food establishment or temporary food
service shall be set by the County Health Department, as provided by the
statutes of the state.
(I.C. 16-20-1-27)
      (4)   A receipt for the payment of such fee shall be provided by the
County Department of Health.
      (5)   The payment of such fees shall be required for each bed and
breakfast establishment, retail food establishment and temporary food
establishment operated or to be operated by any person.
      (6)   All fees collected under the terms of this subchapter shall be
receipted monthly into the County Health Fund for services in enforcing this
subchapter.
   (B)   Exemption from permit fees.  An organization that is excluded from the
term “food establishment” under I.C. 16-18-2-137 is exempt from the payment of
fees.
   (C)   Permit fee schedule. The following schedule is for bed and breakfast
establishment, retail food establishment and temporary food establishment:
 
Bed and breakfast establishment and/or Temporary food establishment
retail food establishment
Annual
$40                                    For a period of no more than 14
Establishment opening after June 30    consecutive days in conjunction with a
$20                                    fair or festival
Late fee of $20 assessed for every 45  $15 for each booth for each event
days
 
   (D)   Late fees. A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the
operation of the bed and breakfast establishment or retail food establishment
or the late fee for failure to renew a permit after the expiration of permit to
operate bed and breakfast establishment or retail food establishment shall be
assessed $20 for every 45 days plus the permit fee as set by the County Health
Board. The payment of fees under this subchapter is not transferable or
refundable.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 110.04  INSPECTION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The County Department of Health shall inspect a bed and breakfast
and retail food establishment at least once every six months.
      (2)   The County Department of Health may increase the interval between
inspections beyond six months if:
         (a)   The bed and breakfast or retail food establishment is fully
operating under an approved and validated Hazard Analysis Critical Control
Point (HACCP) plan(s);
         (b)   The bed and breakfast or retail food establishment is assigned a
less frequent inspection frequency based on a written risk based inspection
schedule that is being uniformly applied throughout the jurisdiction; or
         (c)   The County Department of Health may contact the operator to
determine that the nature of the food operation has not changed.
   (B)   Temporary Food Establishment. The County Department of Health shall
periodically inspect throughout its permit period a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells or serves unpackaged potentially hazardous
food and may inspect temporary food establishment that prepares, sells or
serves unpackaged, nonpotentailly hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as hand washing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, warewashing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal and insect and rodent control; or
      (2)   Has untrained food employees.
   (C)   Performance and risk-based inspections. Within the parameters
specified in divisions (A) and (B) above, the County Department of Health shall
prioritize and conduct more frequent inspections based upon its assessment of a
bed and breakfast or retail food establishment’s history of compliance with
this subchapter and the bed and breakfast or retail food establishment’s
potential as a vector of food borne illness by evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance, for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C.
7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or
non-critical;
      (2)   Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C.
7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are non-
critical;
      (3)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be
valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored or served;
      (5)   The type of operation including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation and services;
      (6)   The number of people served; and
      (7)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
   (D)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice.
      (1)   After the County Department of Health presents official credentials
and provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an inspection,
the operator shall allow the County Department of Health to determine if the
bed and breakfast, retail food establishment or temporary food  establishment
is in compliance with this subchapter by allowing access to the establishment,
allowing inspection, and providing information and records specified in this
subchapter.
      (2)   The County Department of Health is entitled the information and
records according to I.C. 16-42-5-23, during the bed and breakfast or retail
food establishment’s hours of operation and other reasonable times.
      (3)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate. If access is denied, a fine may be assessed
and an order will be issued by the appropriate authority allowing access
obtained according to law.
(I.C. 16-20-1-26).
   (E)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the County
Department of Health shall provide a copy of the completed inspection report
and the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person in
charge, as required under I.C. 16-20-8-5.
   (F)   Timely correction of critical violations.
      (1)   Except as specified in division (F)(2) below, an operator shall at
the time of inspection correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410
I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and implement corrective actions for a HACCP
plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical limit.
      (2)   Considering the nature of the potential health hazard involved and
the complexity of the corrective action needed, the County Department of Health
may agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the
operator to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (3)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the County Department of Health shall verify correction of the
violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the County Department of Health records.
   (G)   Refusal to sign acknowledgment. Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of
receipt will not affect the operator’s obligation to correct the violations
noted in the inspection report within the time frames specified.
      (1)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the County Department of Health historical
record for the bed and breakfast, retail food establishment and temporary food
establishment.
      (2)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of
the County Department of Health inspection by acknowledgment of the receipt.
   (H)   Public information.
      (1)   Except as specified in § 194 (Trade Secrets) of 410 I.A.C. 7-24,
the County Department of Health shall treat the inspection report as a public
document and shall make it available for disclosure to a person who requests it
as provided by law at the end of the correction period specified on the
inspection report.
      (2)   A bed and breakfast or retail food establishment that is the
subject of inspection reports must have an opportunity to review the reports
and submit to the County Department of Health an operator’s response to the
inspection. The written response will be attached to and becomes a part of the
inspection reports.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 3-20-2006)
VIOLATIONS, APPEALS AND THE LIKE
§ 110.15  APPLICATION DENIAL.
   If an application for a plan review or permit to operate a bed and
breakfast, retail food establishment or temporary food establishment is denied,
the County Department of Health shall provide the applicant with a notice that
includes:
   (A)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
   (B)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for the
application and/or permit; and
   (C)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal and the process and time
frames for appeal that are provided by law.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 110.16  CEASING OPERATIONS, REPORTING AND RESUMPTION OF OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Except as specified in division (B) below, the owner or operator of
the bed and breakfast or retail food establishment shall immediately
discontinue operations and notify the County Department of Health if an
imminent health hazard may exist because of an emergency, such as the
following:
      (1)   Fire;
      (2)   Flood;
      (3)   An extended interruption of electrical or water service;
      (4)   A sewage backup;
      (5)   A misuse of poisonous or toxic materials;
      (6)   An onset of an apparent food borne illness;
      (7)   A gross unsanitary occurrence or condition;
      (8)   When potentially hazardous foods are kept in conditions specified
in 410 I.A.C. 7-24 allowing support of the rapid and progressive growth of
infectious or toxigenic microorganisms; and
      (9)   If three or more critical violations occur within a single
inspection.
   (B)   The owner or operator of a bed and breakfast, retail food
establishment or temporary food establishment need not discontinue operations
in an area of an establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health
hazard.
   (C)   If operations are discontinued as specified under this section or
otherwise according to law, the bed and breakfast, retail food establishment or
temporary food establishment shall obtain approval from the County Department
of Health before resuming operations.
   (D)   The County Department of Health may suspend a permit to operate a bed
and breakfast, retail food establishment or temporary food establishment if it
determines through inspection or examination of employee, food, records or
other means as specified in this subchapter that an imminent health hazard
exists.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 110.17  OUTSTANDING FEE.
   Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a permit may not be
issued.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 110.18  ENFORCEMENT OPTIONS.
   (A)   The following options available to the County Department of Health for
consideration.
      (1)   Conduct administrative proceeding for suspension or revocation of
the bed and breakfast, retail food establishment or temporary food
establishment permit in front of a Hearing Officer.
      (2)   The County Department of Health may issue an “order to abate” based
on a condition that may transmit, generate or promote disease. Failure on the
part of the operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement
of the order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the
County Attorney or county prosecuting attorney. See I.C. 16-20-1-25.
      (3)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation or
a criminal offense, the  County Attorney or county prosecuting attorney may
institute a proceeding in the courts  for the enforcement of the ordinance
violation or punishment for the criminal offense.
   (B)   The County Department of Health shall uniformly apply this rule to all
bed and breakfast, retail food establishment and temporary food establishments
in a reasonable manner that promotes its underlying purpose of safeguarding
public health and ensuring that food is: safe; not misbranded; unadulterated;
and honestly presented; when offered to the consumer.
   (C)   In enforcing this rule, the County Department of Health shall assess
existing facilities or equipment that was in use before the effective date of
this subchapter based on the following considerations:
      (1)   Whether the facilities or equipment are in good repair and capable
of being maintained in a sanitary condition;
      (2)   Whether food-contact surfaces comply with 410 I.A.C. 7-24-205
through 213, 215, 216 and 240; and
      (3)   Whether the capacities of cooling, heating and holding equipment
are sufficient to comply with 410 I.A.C. 7-24-259.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 110.19  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under the enforcement options
in §
110.18 (A)(1) through (A)(3) above shall be entitled to a review of the final
order before the Health Officer by filing a written request. The written
request must be mailed or hand delivered to the Health Officer, 801 North
Lincoln Street, Greensburg, Indiana 47240 and must be received within 15 days
after such final order is issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer receipt of such request, the Health Officer
shall hear the matter in an open hearing after at least five days written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the rules of court of the jurisdiction. A shorter period of time
may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon by both.
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified letter the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the persons’ mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the Health Officer.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer establishes the rules and procedure and advises
the parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The Health Officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter the final order or determination of this matter in writing.
   (F)   The order completes the administrative appeal procedure.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   The following sections of 410 I.A.C. 7-24, when in noncompliance, are
critical items. Analysis from the Health Official during inspection may include
the issuance of a fine. Under Rule 23 of Indiana Administrative Code, the
following sections may receive an immediate civil penalty of $20 to $500:
      (1)   Sec. 142. Food prepared in a private home may not be used or
offered for human consumption in a retail food establishment;
      (2)   Sec. 165. If game animals are received for sale or service, they
shall be slaughtered and processed under a state or federal inspection program;
and
      (3)   Sec. 436. Live animals may not be allowed in the operational area
allowing the contamination of food, clean equipment, utensils, linens and
unwrapped single-service and single-use articles. Animals may not be cared for
on the premises.
   (B)   After a second repeat offense, the County Department of Health may
issue a fine between $50 and $250 for the following sections:
      (1)   Sec. 173. Separate raw animal foods during storage, preparation,
holding and display from raw or cooked ready to eat food;
      (2)   Sec. 187. If time is not used as a public health control; hot
holding foods must be held at 135°F or higher; cold holding foods must be held
at 41°F or lower;
      (3)   Sec. 189. Cooked potentially hazardous food shall be cooled from
135°F to 70°F within two hours, then from 70°F to 41°F within four hours;
      (4)   Sec. 193. If time is used as a public health control, the
potentially hazardous food shall be clearly marked indicating the time the food
shall be discarded;
      (5)   Sec. 336. A plumbing system shall be installed to preclude
backsiphonage of a solid, liquid or gas contamination into the water supply;
      (6)   Sec. 415. The presence of insects, rodents and other pests shall be
controlled to minimize their presence on the premises; and
      (7)   Sec. 450. A toxic tracking powder pesticide may not be used in a
retail food establishment.
(Ord. 2006-5, passed 3-20-2006)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS; FIREARMS
CHAPTER 130:  WEAPONS; FIREARMS
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Restrictions
   
130.03   Exceptions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEADLY WEAPON.
      (1)   A loaded or unloaded firearm; or
      (2)   Weapon, device, taser as defined by I.C. 35-47-8-3, equipment,
chemical substance (excluding mace), knife or explosives or other material that
in the manner it is used, could ordinarily be used or is intended to be used,
is readily capable of causing serious bodily injury.
   FIREARM.  Any weapon which is capable of or designed to or that may be
readily converted to expel a projectile by means of explosion.
(Ord. 1996-3, passed 5-6-1996)
§ 130.02  RESTRICTIONS.
   Except as provided in §
130.03, a person shall not possess on or about his or her person a deadly
weapon or firearm within the County Courthouse.
(Ord. 1996-3, passed 5-6-1996)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   Section 130.02 does not apply to law enforcement officers, whether or not on
regular duty; State Department of Correction Officers; judicial officers;
probation officers; community corrections staff; or employees of the United
States duly authorized to carry deadly weapons or firearms. A person exempt
from the provisions of this chapter shall not be exempt if he or she is a party
to any proceeding taking place in court.
(Ord. 1996-3, passed 5-6-1996)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.02 shall be subject to the penalty imposed for a Class C infraction as
provided in I.C. 34-28-5-4 and be subject to having the deadly weapon or
firearm confiscated by the proper law enforcement officials and shall be
eligible to retrieve said deadly weapon or firearm after a waiting period of 48
hours.
   (B)   This chapter shall be enforced pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 34-
28-5.
(Ord. 1996-3, passed 5-6-1996)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR STRUCTURES
      
152.   UNDERGROUND LINES
      
153.   SURVEY RECORDATION
      
154.   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
      
155.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
156.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building permit applications
   
150.02   Unsafe buildings; processing fee
   
150.03   Inspection, repair or removal of unsafe buildings
   
150.04   Technical Review Committee
Building Code
   
150.15   Title
   
150.16   Purpose
   
150.17   Definitions
   
150.18   Scope
   
150.19   Authority
   
150.20   Effect of adoption
   
150.21   Building permits
   
150.22   Investigations and inspections of construction activities
   
150.23   Enforcement
   
150.24   Minimum construction standards
   
150.25   Effective date; approval
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the permit and inspection fees established by the
building ordinance for the county, an applicant for a building permit shall pay
a deposit of $100.
   (B)   The deposit paid with an application for a building permit shall be
collected by the office of the Building Commissioner and shall be paid by that
office to the County Auditor. The Auditor shall deposit the funds so collected
in a separate fund designated as the Building Permit Deposit Fund.
   (C)   Upon timely completion of all inspections as required by the
ordinance, including a final inspection, the Building Commissioner, when a
final certificate of occupancy is issued, shall request that the Auditor refund
the permit deposit. The Building Commissioner may deduct from the deposit any
re-inspection fees which have been imposed under the terms of the building
ordinance and shall notify the Auditor if any re-inspection fees are to be
deducted. The Auditor shall issue a refund of the deposit, less any re-
inspection fees, without appropriation, to the holder of the building permit.
   (D)   The deposit paid with a building permit application may be refunded
upon application by the original applicant for the building permit, if no
construction has been commenced and the applicant withdraws the application. If
a final inspection has not been requested within one year after issuance or
renewal of the building permit, the deposit shall be forfeited and shall be
transferred by the Auditor to the County General Fund.
(Ord. 1998-11, passed 9-8-1998)
§ 150.02  UNSAFE BUILDINGS; PROCESSING FEE.
   A processing fee of $360 is established, to be added to the costs of work
performed by a contractor  or by the county to enforce an order to correct the
condition of an unsafe building.
(Res. passed 8-2-1999)
§ 150.03  INSPECTION, REPAIR OR REMOVAL OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29 is hereby adopted by reference as the
“Decatur County Unsafe Building Law”. All proceedings within the county for the
inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by said
law and the provisions of this section. In the event the provisions of this
section conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29, then
the provisions of the state statute shall control.
   (B)   This section shall apply only to those areas in the county which are
located outside the boundaries of any incorporated city or town.
   (C)   All buildings or portions thereof within the county which are
determined after inspection by the Building Commissioner to be unsafe as
defined in this section are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be
abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal.
   (D)   The County Building Commissioner shall be authorized to administer
this section.
   (E)   A building or structure, or any part of a building or structure, that
is:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to the public health;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance; or
      (6)   Vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow human
habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute or an
ordinance;
is considered an unsafe building. An unsafe building and the tract of real
property on which the unsafe building is located are considered unsafe
premises.
   (F)   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY RIGHT means any right in real property that may
be affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this section,
including a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a present
possessory interest, or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser. The
interest reflected by a deed, lease, license, mortgage, land sale contract, or
lien is not substantial property interest unless the deed, lease, license,
mortgage, land sale contract, lien, or evidence of it is:
      (1)   Recorded in the office of the county recorder; or
      (2)   The subject of a written information that is received by the
Building Commissioner and includes the name and address of the holder of the
interest described.
   (G)   An unsafe building fund is hereby established in the operating budget
of the County Building Commission in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-
7-9-14.
   (H)   A person who:
      (1)   Remains in, uses or enters a building in violation of an order made
under this section;
      (2)   Knowingly interferes with or delays the carrying out of an order
made under ths section;
      (3)   Knowingly obstructs, damages, or interferes with persons engaged or
property used in performing any work or duty under this section; or
      (4)   Fails to provide notices as require by I.C. 36-7-9-27 commits a
class C infraction. Each day that the violation continues constitutes a
separate offense.
   (I)   Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
section be declared unconstitutional or invalid for any reasons, the remainder
of this section shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. 1998-4, passed  - -1998)
§ 150.04  TECHNICAL REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The County Commissioners herein establish the Decatur County Technical
Review Committee for the purpose of informally clarifying and assisting the
review process of proposed land use projects in Decatur County by meeting with
applicants pre-filing, and reviewing and advising the approval path for that
proposal.
   (B)   The Technical Review Committee shall be comprised of representatives
of the Decatur County Highway Department, Decatur County Surveyor, Decatur
County Auditor, Decatur County Area Plan and Decatur County Commissioner.
Depending on the scope of the project, other representatives that may be
invited include: NCRS, Decatur County Board of Health, City of Greensburg,
Decatur County utilities, Decatur County Attorney, Decatur County APC, and
Decatur County APC Attorney.
   (C)   Members and stakeholders shall be advised by email, letter or phone at
least two days prior to any meetings by the Decatur County Auditor's Office.
   (D)   The Technical Review Committee may meet weekly, but it is not required
to do so if there is no agenda item. The Auditor's Office shall advise
applicants, life protect status and any applicant can be on the agenda upon a
two day notice. Plats and plans must be received at least two days before the
Committee meets to ensure reviews and consideration.
   (E)   The Committee will advise all applicants informally and make every
effort to assist the applicant in knowing how to move the land use project.
   (F)   All submitted documents will be available in the Auditor's Office
during regular business hours after the review period with any noted comments
or corrections. These documents shall be resubmitted along with the corrected
documentation for further review.
(Ord. 150.04, passed 2-15-2016)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15  TITLE.
   This subchapter and all material included herein by reference shall be known
as the “Building Code of Decatur County, Indiana”.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 150.16  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the life, public safety, health
and general welfare of the citizens of the county, and shall be construed in
such a manner to effectuate this purpose.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 150.17  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER.  Includes individuals employed by the Building
Department who are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE.  Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4:
      (1)   Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public;
            2.   Three or more tenants; and/or
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another;
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1)(a) above;
         (c)   Outdoor event equipment; or
         (d)   Any class of buildings or structures that the Commission
determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in division (1)
(a), except buildings or structures described in divisions (1)(a)3. through (1)
(a)5.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) above includes a structure that contains three or
more condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a building or structure
that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Division (1)(a) does not include a structure that is intended to be
or is occupied solely to provide periodic maintenance or repair of: 1. the
structure; or 2. mechanical or electrical equipment located within and affixed
to the structure.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE.  Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5:
      (1)   Any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units, unless any part of the building
or structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure; and
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1)(a)
above, such as a garage, barn or family swimming pool, including an above
ground swimming pool, unless any part of the outbuilding is regularly used as a
Class 1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION.  Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site;
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used;
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class 2
structure at the site where it will be used;
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure; or
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM.  Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, any part of a
building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part fabricated
in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the
building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or another
building or structure; however, the term does not include a mobile structure or
a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16, has the meaning set forth
in 42 U.S.C. § 5402 as it existed on January 1, 2003.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE.  Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17:
      (1)   Any part of a fabricated unit that is designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; and
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable but designed to be
joined into one integral unit.
      (3)   One or more units that include a hoisting and lowering mechanism
equipped with a platform that: (a) moves between two or more landings; (b) is
used to transport one or more individuals.
   PERSON.  Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, an individual, corporation, limited
liability company, partnership, unincorporated association or governmental
entity.
   STRUCTURE.  Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE.  Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, means any bridge that is
neither:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles; suspended between two or more
parts of a building or between two or more buildings.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 150.18  SCOPE.
   (A)   All construction shall be accomplished in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-6, this subchapter shall not apply to
industrialized building systems or mobile structures certified under I.C. 22-
15-4; however, the provisions of this subchapter and the rules promulgated by
the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission do apply to any construction
related to an industrialized building system or mobile structure not certified
under I.C. 22-15-4.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-9, this subchapter is not applicable to
regulated amusement devices, regulated boilers, regulated pressure vessels or
regulated lifting devices.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 150.19  AUTHORITY.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to administer
and enforce the following:
   (A)   All of the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Variances granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11; and
   (C)   Orders issued under I.C. 22-12-7.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 150.20  EFFECT OF ADOPTION.
   The expressed or implied repeal or amendment by this subchapter of any other
ordinance or part of any other ordinance does not affect any rights or
liabilities accrued, penalties incurred or proceedings begun prior to the
effective date of this subchapter. These rights, liabilities and other
proceedings are continued and penalties shall be imposed and enforced under the
repealed or amended ordinance as if this subchapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 150.21  BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permit required. Construction is prohibited unless in
conformity with a valid building permit obtained from the Building Commissioner
prior to commencement of construction.
   (B)   Application for building permit.
      (1)   Any person required to have a building permit shall submit a
complete application to the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   This application shall be submitted on a form prepared by the
Building Commissioner, and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Information that the Building Commissioner determines to be
necessary to locate and contact the applicant;
         (b)   A clear and understandable copy of detailed plans and
specifications drawn to scale which indicate in a precise manner the nature and
location of all work to be accomplished;
         (c)   A plot plan drawn to scale. This plot plan shall reflect the
location of the structure in relation to existing property lines and show
streets, curbs and sidewalks and proposed changes or additions to such streets,
curbs and sidewalks;
         (d)   If required by state law or any rule of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission, a copy of a design release for the work to be done
that has been issued by the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to I.C. 22-15-3;
         (e)   Any additional information that the Building Commissioner finds
to be necessary to determine that the construction will conform to all
applicable building laws and will not violate any other applicable ordinances
or laws; and
         (f)   The fee established by the Board of County Commissioners.
      (3)   Application for a building permit shall be made by the person
entitled to obtain the permit or by an employee or agent of that person. The
Building Commissioner may require that such an employee or agent provide
written authority to apply for a permit.
   (C)   Issuance of building permit. The Building Commissioner shall issue a
building permit to a person after the person has submitted a complete
application, including any applicable fee, provided that the proposed
construction will conform to all applicable building laws and will not violate
any other applicable ordinances or laws.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy. No certificate of occupancy for any building
or structure shall be issued unless such building or structure was constructed
in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be unlawful to
occupy any such building or structure unless a full, partial or temporary
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-17-2003)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.22  INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   General authority to make inspections and investigations.
      (1)   All construction shall be subject to periodic inspections by the
Building Commissioner irrespective of whether a building permit has been or is
required to be obtained.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner may at any reasonable time go in, upon,
around or about the premises where any structure, subject to the provisions of
this subchapter, or to the rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission is located for the purposes of inspection and investigation of such
structure. Such inspection and investigation may be made before and/or after
construction on the project is completed for the purposes of determining
whether the structure meets building standards and procedures, and ascertaining
whether the construction and procedures have been accomplished in a manner
consistent with this subchapter and the rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission.
   (B)   Inspections by Fire Department. The Building Commissioner and the Fire
Department shall work cooperatively to conduct inspections and investigations
to promote compliance with fire safety laws (the Fire Department has
independent authority to conduct inspections and take enforcement actions under
I.C. 36-8-17.)
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 150.23  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Withhold issuance of permits.
      (1)   Whenever a person which is either an applicant for a building
permit or an obtainer of a building permit owes fees (including checks returned
for insufficient funds, permit fees or inspection fees) to the Building
Commissioner, the Building Commissioner may withhold the issuance of
subsequently requested permits until such time that the debt is satisfied.
      (2)   Whenever a person applies for a building permit for a structure
that is not being used or constructed in conformance with applicable provisions
of an applicable zoning ordinance or other ordinance relating to land use, the
Building Commissioner is authorized to withhold the issuance of requested
permits until such time that the property is brought into conformance with
applicable ordinances.
   (B)   Permit revocation. The Building Commissioner may revoke a building
permit when any of the following are applicable:
      (1)   The application, plans or supporting documents contain a false
statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact;
      (2)   The application, plans or supporting documents reflect a lack of
compliance with building standards and procedures;
      (3)   There is failure to comply with this subchapter; and
      (4)   The structure for which the building permit has been issued is not
being used or constructed in conformance with an applicable zoning ordinance or
other ordinance relating to land use.
   (C)   Stop-work order.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner may issue an order requiring suspension
of the pertinent construction (stop-work order) in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   The stop-work order shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   State with specificity the construction to which it is
applicable and the reason for its issuance;
         (c)   Be posted on the property in a conspicuous place;
         (d)   If practicable, be given to:
            1.   The person doing the construction; and
            2.   To the owner of the property or the owner’s agent.
         (e)   The stop-work order shall state the conditions under which
construction may be resumed.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner may issue a stop-work order if:
         (a)   Construction is proceeding in an unsafe manner, including, but
not limited to, in violation of any standard set forth in this subchapter or
any state law pertaining to safety during construction;
         (b)   Construction is occurring in violation of this subchapter or in
such a manner that if construction is allowed to proceed, there is a reasonable
probability that it will substantially difficult to correct the violation; or
         (c)   Construction for which a building permit is required is
proceeding without a building permit being in force.
      (4)   The issuance of a stop-work order shall in no way limit the
operation of penalties provided elsewhere in this subchapter.
   (D)   Right of appeal.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter shall
have the right to petition for review of any order of the Building
Commissioner. Such a person may file a petition using either, or both, of the
following procedures.
         (a)   Appeal to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
            1.   A person aggrieved by an order issued under this subchapter
may submit a petition for review to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission, in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-7.
            2.   The Commission may modify or reverse any order that covers a
subject governed by I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C. 22-15, a fire
safety or a building rule.
            3.   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission must review
orders that concern a Class 2 structure if the person aggrieved by the order
petitions for review under I.C. 4-21.5-3-7 within 30 days after the issuance of
the order.
            4.   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission may review
all other orders issued under this subchapter that cover a subject governed by
I.C. 22-12, I.C. 22-13, I.C. 22-14, I.C. 22-15, a fire safety rule or a
building rule.
            5.   The review of an order by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission does not suspend the running of the time period under any
statute in which a person must petition a court for judicial review of the
order.
         (b)   Appeal to an established local administrative body or court.
      (2)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-8-9, a person aggrieved by a decision of the
Building Department may appeal as in other civil actions.
      (3)   The appellant must, by registered mail, give the county executive
15-day written notice of his or her intention to appeal. This notice must
concisely state the appellant’s grievance.
      (4)   If, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-6-9, the county has established by
ordinance to hear appeals of orders issued under ordinances, then a person
aggrieved by an order may petition for review with this administrative body in
accordance with said ordinance. If no such administrative body exists, then the
person may petition a court for judicial review of the order.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 150.24  MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adoption of rules by reference.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b) , the rules of the State Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following articles
of Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by
reference in this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules.
         (a)   Article 13 - Building Codes:
            1.   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
            2.   Indiana Building Code.
         (b)   Article 14 - Indiana Residential Code;
         (c)   Article 16 - Indiana Plumbing Code;
         (d)   Article 17 - Indiana Electrical Code;
         (e)   Article 18 - Indiana Mechanical Code;
         (f)   Article 19 - Indiana Energy Conservation Code;
         (g)   Article 20 - Indiana Swimming Pool Code; and
         (h)   Article 22 - Indiana Fire Code.
      (2)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference
are on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative body for public
inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building
laws adopted in this subchapter. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance
granted by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been
approved by Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
   (B)   Lifting devices located within a private residence.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-22 (b) (12), lifting devices, such as
elevators and wheelchair lifts, located within a private residence are not
regulated lifting devices. Therefore, the following standards applicable to
lifting devices located within a private residence are incorporated by
reference:
         (a)   Part 5.3, Private Residence Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-2000,
Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
         (b)   Part 5.4, Private Residence Inclined Elevators, ANSI/ASME A17.1-
2000, Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators published by the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York, 10016;
         (c)   Section 5, Private Residence Vertical Platform Lifts, ASME
A18.1a, 2001 (Addenda to ASMS 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016;
         (d)   Section 6, Private Residence Inclined Platform Lifts, AS ME
A18.1a, 2001 (Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and
Stairway Chair Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, Three Park Avenue, New York, New York 10016; and
         (e)   Section 7, Private Inclined Stairway Lifts, ASME A18.1a, 2001
(Addenda to ASME 18.1-1999), Safety Standard for Platform and Stairway Chair
Lifts, published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Three Park
Avenue, New York, New York 10016.
      (2)   Two copies of the above lifting device standards incorporated by
reference are on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative body for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 150.25  EFFECTIVE DATE; APPROVAL.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after the date on
which both of the following have occurred:
   (A)   The County Commissioners have adopted this subchapter; and
   (B)   The Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state has
approved of this subchapter as required by I.C. 22-13-2-5 and I.C. 36-7-8-3.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-17-2003)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
150.15 through
150.25 may be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding $2,500. The assessment
of a monetary penalty shall in no way limit the operation of the penalties
provided elsewhere in §§
150.15 through
150.25.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 3-17-2003)
CHAPTER 151:  NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR STRUCTURES
Section
   
151.01   Uniform numbering system
   
151.02   Relation to health and welfare
   
151.03   Conformity
   
151.04   Base lines and sequences
   
151.05   Administrative office
   
151.06   Numbers other than on public streets and roads
   
151.07   Standards for the posting of house numbers
   
151.08   Renumbering of houses and structures
   
151.09   Notification of local agencies
   
151.10   Enforcement
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   A plan for the orderly and systematic numbering of houses and structures
located within the jurisdictional area of the County Area Plan Commission is
hereby enacted (hereinafter “uniform numbering system”). Any and all ordinances
previously adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the county, regarding the
numbering of houses and structures are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 151.02  RELATION TO HEALTH AND WELFARE.
   The numbering of houses and other structures in an orderly and systematic
manner will make the location for such houses and structure more expeditious in
cases of fire emergencies, in situations involving immediate need for medical
attention for members of family or occupants of a building, and in instances
where police protection may be required. An orderly and systematic house
numbering process will also enhance the delivery of goods and services, as well
as increase the efficiency of operations such as postal delivery.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 151.03  CONFORMITY.
   From the effective date of this chapter, the numbering of all houses and
structures located on lots or parcels of land abutting public streets or roads
within the jurisdictional area of the County Area Plan Commission shall be
accomplished in conformity with the uniform numbering system as herein
described. At the time of the issuance of any permit for the construction of a
house or structure, a number shall be assigned by the County Building
Commissioner to said house or structure as hereinafter provided. Such number
shall be included on the permit, and no permit authorizing the occupancy of a
house or structure shall be issued and no final inspection of a building
performed for the purpose of permitting its occupancy shall be deemed complete
unless such house or structure displays, at the time of inspection, the
officially assigned number in full compliance with the standards of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 151.04  BASE LINES AND SEQUENCES.
   (A)   The general rule shall be 1,000 addresses per mile, except in certain
areas where the irregular direction of the county highways makes variations
necessary, and except in buffer areas adjacent to incorporated cities or towns.
   (B)   Even numbers shall be used on the north and east sides of roads and
odd numbers on the south and west.
   (C)   The grid system to be used is to be constructed on a north, south east
and west basis using Main Street in the City of Greensburg as the north-south
dividing line and North Lincoln Street in the City of Greensburg as the east-
west dividing line. The starting point of “0" for this grid system is at the
intersection of East Main Street and North Lincoln Street in the City of
Greensburg, with each mile portion of roadway becoming a “block” for uniform
numbering purposes. Each dividing line is to be known as Base Road. Base Road
North extends from said intersection due north to the Rush County line. Base
Road South extends from said intersection due south to the Ripley County line.
Base Road East extends from said intersection due east to the Franklin County
line. Base Road West extends from said intersection due west to the Bartholomew
County line.
   (D)   The uniform numbering system is to keep the current official county
road numbers and add to them a prefix with a numerical location followed by a
letter indicating the direction the road runs from the dividing lines.
   (E)   The current addressing scheme of the City of Greensburg and of each
incorporated town shall be taken into account for areas adjoining each
incorporated area, up to one-half mile beyond the corporate limits, except for
those towns which elect to follow the uniform numbering system set forth in
this section.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 151.05  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE.
   (A)   The County Building Commission shall act as the administrative office
(hereinafter “administrative office”) in charge of issuing numbers to houses or
structures in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The
administrative office shall issue numbers to all new houses or structures,
renumber houses and structures whenever it becomes necessary to do so in the
implementation of the uniform system, and cause the numbering of all existing
homes or structures which are not numbered to be numbered in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. Barns, sheds and outbuildings not used for a
habitation or business shall not be numbered.
   (B)   The administrative office may establish written guidelines to use in
implementing this chapter and may amend such guidelines from time to time.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 151.06  NUMBERS OTHER THAN ON PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS.
   The administrative office may, if it deems proper and necessary for the
implementation of the uniform numbering system, assign numbers to houses or
structures that are situated on private streets or roads within the
jurisdictional area of the County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 151.07  STANDARDS FOR THE POSTING OF HOUSE NUMBERS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant of a house or structure located within the
jurisdictional area of the County Area Plan Commission shall post officially
assigned numbers in English, using Arabic (not Roman) numerals in a location
providing easy identification from the abutting street or road.
      (1)   Such number shall be a minimum of three inches in height, made of
durable, weather-proof material and be a color made to stand out distinctly
against its background.
      (2)   Such official number may be placed attached to the mail box (as
according to postal regulations) or on a post or outside light, or on any
prominent place on the house or structure so that the number is identifiable;
provided, however, that if a building is not visible from a road or if a
building is more than 200 feet from a road, the number shall be displayed at
the entrance to the access road or driveway to such building by means of a
separate marker or on a mailbox.
   (B)   Whenever the number is placed on a place other than the structure
itself, it shall be positioned to allow the structure to be readily identified
with the address number.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 151.08  RENUMBERING OF HOUSES AND STRUCTURES.
   Houses and structures that were numbered prior to the effective date of this
chapter shall be renumbered in order that the same may comply with the uniform
numbering system and so that the numerical harmony throughout an area or areas
is substantially achieved. The County Building Commission, as designated in
this chapter, shall authorize such changes.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 151.09  NOTIFICATION OF LOCAL AGENCIES.
   (A)   The administrative office shall provide a uniform system of
notification of the issuance of numbers or the renumbering of houses and
structures.
   (B)   Notification shall be made reasonably ahead of impending changes so as
to allow interested groups and agencies to plan and to prepare for proposed
changes.
   (C)   The administrative office shall keep accurate records and shall, from
time to time, prepare and make available to the County Commissioners a report
of the status of the implementation of the uniform numbering system.
   (D)   In the assignment of house numbers, the administrative office shall
use its best judgment and shall carefully consider and evaluate all
contingencies and shall, with due regard to the sensitive nature of the job
assigned to it, be considerate of the citizens of the county.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 151.10  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for injunction to
restrain any person, firm or corporation who shall take down, alter, deface,
destroy or conceal any number assigned to or placed upon any building in
compliance with this chapter, or who shall place or substitute or permit to be
placed or substituted upon any building an erroneous or improper number not in
compliance with this chapter, or who shall allow to be retained upon any
building an erroneous or improper number not in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may institute a suit for mandatory
injunction directing a person, firm or corporation to correct any violation of
the provisions of this chapter or to bring about compliance with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   If the Board of Commissioners is successful in any such suit, the
defendant or respondent shall bear the costs of the action, including
reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation owning or occupying a building who shall
fail to number such building or who shall fail to maintain the number of such
building as provided in this chapter shall be deemed to have violated the
provisions of this chapter, and may be fined a sum of not less than $25, nor
more than $100 for each day’s violation.
(Ord. 1991-2, passed 4-1-1991)
CHAPTER 152:  UNDERGROUND LINES
Section
   
152.01   General requirements
§ 152.01  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following are the requirements for underground lines transporting,
containing or storing gas, oil, petroleum by-products and other liquids.
   (A)   When a four-inch up to a six-inch underground line is being installed,
the installed line is required to maintain a 50-foot setback from any structure
that is not receiving service from the line.
   (B)   When a six-inch or larger underground line is being installed, the
installed line is required to maintain a 500-foot setback from any structure
that is not receiving service from the line.
   (C)   The four-inch or larger underground line is required to be buried so
that the line is located five feet deep measured from the soil surface to the
top of the underground line.
   (D)   When a compressor or pumping station is installed, the compressor or
pumping station is required to maintain a 2,000-foot setback from any
structure.
   (E)   It is required that the underground line installer adhere to the
guidelines established by the Indiana Best Management Practice (Indiana
B.M.P.), which are in effect at the time of installation of the underground
line, and with the Pipeline Construction Guidelines pursuant to I.C. 8-1-22.6
et seq. as adopted by the State Regulatory Commission under General
Administrative Order 2007-1.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2012)
CHAPTER 153:  SURVEY RECORDATION
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Conditions; recording
   
153.03   Plat of survey
   
153.04   Certificates of review
   
153.05   A-1 or A-2 District requirements
   
153.06   County Auditor
   
153.07   Additional requirements
   
153.08   Fee
   
153.09   Disputes, issues; notice and decision
   
153.10   Transfer
   
153.11   Amendments apply to
§ 153.01  DEFINITIONS.
   LAND SURVEYOR and SURVEY shall have the meanings set out in I.C. 36-2-19.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed - -2008)
§ 153.02  CONDITIONS; RECORDING.
   In addition to the conditions of I.C. 36-2-19-4, when any land surveyor has
prepared a plat of any original, retracement, record document survey or route
survey of real estate located in the county, then either the land surveyor or
the owner of the platted real estate shall record that plat in the office of
Recorder of the county upon any of the following events:
   (A)   When a new tax parcel is created;
   (B)   When no previous survey of the parcel has been recorded;
   (C)   When the monuments, monument references or any part of the description
varies from the last recorded survey of the parcel;
   (D)   Whenever a boundary line is being changed by adverse possession, court
order, resubdivision of an existing plat or in any other manner that changes a
boundary line; and
   (E)   When a route survey, utility easement, access easement, drainage
easement, right-of-way easement or retracement survey has been prepared for use
in a document granting an easement.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed - -2008)
§ 153.03  PLAT OF SURVEY.
   The plat of survey under this chapter shall contain the following:
   (A)   A title to indicate the purpose of the survey (i.e., division,
subdivision, retracement and the like);
   (B)   The name of the current real estate owner as shown upon the real
estate tax records of the county or an annotation if the surveyor believes the
tax records are erroneous or should be corrected;
   (C)   The identity of the parent tract, including the Deed of Record or
Instrument Number and 18-digit state key number of the parent tract from which
a plat of survey of a smaller area is taken or derived;
   (D)   Annotation of all adjoining real estate owners to the survey tract
based upon the county tax records, deed of record and 18-digit state key
number;
   (E)   The area (in acres) of each surveyed tract, lot in a subdivision, road
or right-of-way, and remainder, if any, in the parent tract with the amount of
acreage in different quarter sections, if any, identified. Acreage shall be
identified as measured or recorded. The acreage or remaining acreage of each
separate tax parcel shall be shown;
   (F)   A computer-generated drawing and a textual description of the parcel
being surveyed. Descriptions shall include compass bearings and distance to at
least two section corners;
   (G)   A statement indicating the existence or absence of any improvements on
each survey tract at the time of the plat’s recordation, to include the
location of buildings within 50 feet of a property boundary or right-of-way;
   (H)   A description and diagram of any variances or easements being created
on the tract;
   (I)   All flood information;
   (J)   An owner’s certificate and a surveyor’s certificate. Surveyor’s
certificate must indicate that the survey is in compliance with I.A.C. Title
865, Article 1, Rule 12;
   (K)   Executed certificates of county review as set out in the following §
153.04;
   (L)   Route surveys shall include description and acreage of all proposed
roads, streets or rights-of-way;
   (M)   Streets limited to private use must be so labeled;
   (N)   Parcel or lot being surveyed needs zoning classification per zoning
map, city or county;
   (O)   North arrow;
   (P)   Bearings of lines and source of bearings, and if based upon a previous
survey, reference to a recorded document must be on the plat;
   (Q)   Gaps and overlaps clearly shown and new legal description for that
area;
   (R)   Distances shall be shown in feet and decimal fractions of a foot.
Direction of lines shall be shown in compass bearings;
   (S)   Curve data to include radius, chord distance and bearing, arc length;
   (T)   When a new tract is being created, the 18-digit state key number will
be put on the survey/plat before if can be recorded. For that new parcel the
surveyor will put on the 18-digit state key number or give written consent to
the Area Plan Director to put it on the survey. Leave a blank line space for
the 18-digit state key number;
   (U)   All restrictions and covenants new or old shall appear on survey or be
referenced to recorded location of restriction and covenants;
   (V)   Vicinity map;
   (W)   All surveys must be recorded within six months from the time a
registered surveyor signs the survey/plat;
   (X)   Measurements for route surveys: survey ties to nearest United States
Public Land Survey subdivision corners that are reasonably accessible to both
sides of the controlling survey line; and
   (Y)   Provide proof of closure for legal description being surveyed.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed - -2008)
§ 153.04  CERTIFICATES OF REVIEW.
   Any plat of survey (original, retracement or route survey) shall contain the
following certificates of review before the Recorder of the county shall accept
the document for recordation:
GREENSBURG CITY PLAN COMMISSION CERTIFICATE
   This plat of survey has been reviewed by _________ as the designated
representative of the Greensburg City Plan Commission of the _______ day of
______________. Such plat conforms to the City of Greensburg, Indiana and shall
be the document of record from which the Greensburg City Plan Commission or the
City of Greensburg Board of Zoning Appeals shall determine all issues under any
City of Greensburg ordinance.
   Certified this ___________ day of ________________, ________.
                                       Greensburg City Plan Commission
                                       By: ________________________________
OWNER’S CERTIFICATE
   We, _______________ and __________________________ owners of the real estate
shown and described herein, do hereby certify that we establish the boundaries
of said real estate in accordance with this plat.
   The setback lines shall be determined by the regulations of the governing
entity having zoning jurisdiction over the property shown hereon.
______________________________         _________________________________
Name                              Name
NOTARY PUBLIC CERTIFICATE
State of Indiana      ]
                  SS:
County of Decatur   ]
   Before me, the undersigned notary public, in and for the County and State,
personally appeared ___ ____________________ and __________________ who
acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument as their voluntary acts
and deeds for the purposes therein expressed.
Witness my hand and seal this __________ day of ____________________,
_________.
                              Notary Public   ___________________________
                              County of   _______________________________
                              Residence   _______________________________
                              Printed name ____________________
                              Commission Expiration ______________________
DECATUR COUNTY SURVEY CERTIFICATES
AREA PLAN COMMISSION CERTIFICATE
   This plat of survey has been reviewed by _____________________________ as
the designated representative of the Decatur County Area Plan Commission on the
_____ day of _________________. Such plat conforms to the zoning and use
ordinances of Decatur County, Indiana and shall be the document of record from
which the Decatur County Area Plan Commission or the Decatur County Board of
Zoning Appeals shall determine all issues under any Decatur County ordinance.
   Certified this ________ day of ________________, ___________.
                  Decatur County Area Plan Commission
                  By _____________________________________
AUDITOR’S CERTIFICATE
   The Decatur County Auditor or its representative has received and reviewed
an exact copy of this plat on this __________ day of __________________,
______.
   Certified this _________ day of __________________, _______.
                                 Auditor, Decatur County, Indiana
                                 By: __________________________
RECORDING CERTIFICATE
   Recorded in Plat Cabinet pages ____________ this _______ day of
_______________, _____ at ______ o’clock __M. instrument number ______, fee
paid ___________.
                                             _____________________________
                                             Decatur County Recorder
(Ord. 2008-05, passed - -2008)
§ 153.05  A-1 OR A-2 DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS.
   Any plat of survey (original, retracement or route survey) of land located
in an A-1 or A-2 zoning district shall contain the following certificate:
AGRICULTURAL AREA CERTIFICATE
   The owners of residential lots in this subdivision and their successors in
title acknowledge that the predominate use of adjoining or adjacent real estate
is farming and other agricultural uses. The owners of these lots take this real
estate with notice that farming and other agricultural uses may impair or
conflict with the residential use of this real estate.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed - -2008)
§ 153.06  COUNTY AUDITOR.
   The County Auditor shall review each survey for consistency with county
records and shall make any necessary corrections to county records. The County
Auditor may reject a survey which does not contain the information required by
this chapter or which is not consistent with county records.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed - -2008)
§ 153.07  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The plat of survey shall be upon an 18-inch by 24-inch minimum, 24-inch by
36-inch maximum Mylar and contain all information required under this chapter.
The certificate of the owner, surveyor and certificate of county review shall
appear on the plat.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed - -2008)
§ 153.08  FEE.
   (A)   The fee for recording the plat of survey shall be collected by the
County Recorder in the amount authorized by I.C. 36-2-7-10.
   (B)   The fee for the county review of the plat of survey shall be $60 and
collected by the County Area Plan Commission. The Auditor review fee is $20 per
survey and will be collected by the County Auditor.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed - -2008)
§ 153.09  DISPUTES; ISSUES; NOTICE AND DECISION.
   (A)   Any disputes, interpretations or issues arising from this chapter, or
its enforcement shall be determined after a public hearing before a Plat Review
Board that is composed of the County Surveyor, the Executive Director or Chief
Administrative Officer of the County Area Plan Commission and the Zoning
Administrator or Chief Administrative Officer for planning of the City of
Greensburg, Indiana. Notice of the public hearing shall be published as
required by statute with formal notice by mail to all adjoining real estate
owners.
   (B)   The decision of the Plat Review Board under this chapter may be
appealed to the Circuit Court of the county.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed - -2008)
§ 153.10  TRANSFER.
   The County Auditor and the County Recorder may accept for transfer or
recordation deed or document of conveyance only if the requirements of this
chapter have been met.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed - -2008)
§ 153.11  AMENDMENTS APPLY TO.
   The amendments enacted by this chapter shall be effective on January 1,
2009, and shall apply to any transfers or recordings after that date.
(Ord. 2008-05, passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 154:  WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
Section
   
154.01   Permitted uses
   
154.02   Exemptions
   
154.03   Conditions of approval
   
154.04   General requirements
   
154.05   Co-location review
   
154.06   Performance/construction standards
§ 154.01  PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses include:
   (A)   Co-location: the placement of antenna array if located on a legally
existing or previously approved WCF, a previously constructed broadcast tower,
or an existing communications tower where the engineering specifications of the
tower permit the placement of antenna array without an increase in the height
of the tower;
   (B)   Attached wireless communications facilities: the placement of antenna
array if integrated within another existing structure and no more than 15 feet
height increase is required to the existing structure;
   (C)   Replacement of a legal, existing WCF, support structure or antenna
array with a similar facility of equal or smaller size, subject to the
application procedures and general requirements of this chapter; and
   (D)   Placement of antenna array or WCF as permitted under Zoning District
B-3, county ordinance on land use and zoning, § 2-2-6 and as permitted as a
permanent special exception when authorized by the County Board of Zoning
Appeals in Zoning District B-2 pursuant to the county ordinance on land use and
zoning, § 2-2-5.
(Ord. 2000-42, passed 10-16-2000)
§ 154.02  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following wireless communication facilities are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter: police, fire, ambulance and other emergency
dispatch; F.M. and Private Business Band, amateur (ham) radio; antennas used
solely for residential household television and radio reception and satellite
dishes measuring two meters or less in diameter.
(Ord. 2000-42, passed 10-16-2000)
§ 154.03  CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   The following conditions apply to all permitted uses.
   (A)   All WCF and support structures shall be designed for and constructed
in accordance with the provisions for co-location.
   (B)   Applicants agree to make a good faith effort on terms consistent with
general industry standards to accommodate requests for co-location that
originate from a provider, WCF owner or from the planning department.
   (C)   Property owners or their agents shall accept and accommodate the
provisions for co-location prescribed by this chapter and shall agree to the
renting or leasing of space on a support structure or WCF for co-location at a
fair market price and without discriminatory terms.
   (D)   Upon completion of the support structure or WCF, owners and operators
of the support structure or WCF agree to make a good faith effort to
accommodate co-location (placement of additional antenna arrays) in a timely
manner, including the WCF or antenna arrays proposed by other service
providers.
   (E)   No approval for a WCF or support structure shall become valid until
authorization or a written statement of no objection has been obtained from all
relevant federal, state and local agencies with regulatory authority and
submitted to the county planning and zoning office.
(Ord. 2000-42, passed 10-16-2000)
§ 154.04  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements apply to all WCF that are erected or placed
within the county jurisdictional area after the effective date of this chapter.
   (A)   For each application, the property owners, WCF owners and wireless
communications service providers shall be considered co-applicants and shall be
jointly and severally subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Each permit application for placement of a WCF. WCF support structure
or antenna array shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   An application, rezoning application or variance application form
with original signatures from the property owners, service providers and tower
owners;
      (2)   A written statement with illustrations that describe the proposed
WCF including the type of construction, tower height and provisions for co-
location;
      (3)   A listing of all existing and proposed facilities with
specifications for all WCF from the center of the county and for a distance of
15 miles in each direction. Each named facility shall include information on
facility capacity for co-location, the height and type of each facility, and
the coverage patterns and types of service provided for each existing or
proposed facility;
      (4)   A site plan which is comprised of a scaled drawing setting forth
property lines, distances, existing site improvements/buildings/structures,
existing or proposed roadways and easements, proposed WCF location, and
proposed landscaping;
      (5)   A visual impact analysis that includes current photographs of
human-made or natural features adjacent to the WCF and a photographic
presentation that depicts current site conditions with a super-imposed image of
the proposed facility to demonstrate the anticipated views and the facility
upon its completion;
      (6)   A copy of the facility maintenance and removal agreement signed by
all applicants that binds the applicants and all successors in interest to
properly maintain and/or remove the facility upon abandonment in compliance
with the terms of this chapter;
      (7)   The county shall not authorize the placement of any WCF or support
structure, unless the county obtains an indemnification from the applicants
that releases the county from all liability arising out of the construction,
operation, removal or repair of a WCF or antenna array. Parties to the wireless
communications agreement agree to not sue or seek any monies or damages from
the county; to indemnify and hold harmless the county, its elected/appointed
officials, agents, servants and employees from all claims, demands or causes of
action along with the resulting losses, expenses, costs, attorney fees,
liabilities, damages, orders, judgments and decrees which arise out of or
result from a wireless communication facility owner, operator, agent, employee
or servant for negligent acts, error or omissions;
      (8)   A policy of insurance maintained with a reputable company that
insures the WCF or support structure with minimum and adequate insurance
coverage for liability, bodily injury and property damage for the entire period
the WCF is in existence. The county shall be named as an additional insured on
the policy. A certificate of insurance shall be submitted verifying the
insurance coverage at the time application is made. Failure to maintain
insurance coverage shall be a violation of this chapter; and
      (9)   Each application for placement of a WCF or antenna array shall be
subject to co-location review as set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Each WCF that is approved for construction under this chapter shall be
required to have the ability to co-locate six or more facilities.
(Ord. 2000-42, passed 10-16-2000)
§ 154.05  CO-LOCATION REVIEW.
   Each WCF shall have five of its six facilities filled before a new WCF will
be granted upon compliance with the terms of this chapter and the county
ordinance on zoning and land use. Relief from co-location requirements of this
chapter shall require professional, independent evaluations that establish one
of the following:
   (A)   Existing WCF or support structures do not fail within location
tolerances based upon radio frequency mapping;
   (B)   Proposed sites do not meet minimum height requirements based upon
radio frequency engineering data;
   (C)   Existing WCF or support structures do not meet structural integrity
requirements for the proposed antenna array; or
   (D)   Placement of the proposed WCF and/or antenna array would impair or be
impaired by the emission of radio frequencies.
(Ord. 2000-42, passed 10-16-2000)
§ 154.06  PERFORMANCE/CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   A perimeter fence at least eight feet in height shall be installed to
contain the WCF and all accessory structures and/or facilities.
   (B)   Security lighting is not required. If security lighting is installed,
it shall be confined to accessory structures and shall be directed downward to
minimize glare or intrusion into adjoining properties. No WCF, support
structures or antenna array that require illumination shall be permitted.
   (C)   Any landscaping that is installed shall be properly maintained or
replaced to maintain a presentable appearance for the structure.
   (D)   Off-premise or advertising signage is prohibited. Each WCF or support
structure shall have identification signage that states the name of the
facility owner and a 24-hour emergency telephone number.
   (E)   Attached WCF shall be appropriately integrated with or within existing
structures with due consideration given to siting/placement, color, camouflage,
size and type of construction. Attached WCF shall be designed to minimize
visual impact and antenna arrays shall not exceed the height of the existing
structure by more than 15 feet.
   (F)   Noise producing equipment shall be insulated to guarantee no increase
in noise to surrounding areas to the WCF. Backup generators, if utilized, shall
only be operated during power outages and for testing and maintenance purposes.
   (G)   The towers shall be constructed using stealth construction and shall
be self-supporting without utilizing cables for support. In the event an
alternate form of construction is more suitable to a proposed WCF location
site, the County Plan Commission may authorize an alternate form of
construction upon a showing of sufficient documentation.
   (H)   All WCF, support structures, accessory buildings, poles, antennas and
other external facilities shall be painted a neutral color or galvanized grey.
Paint color shall be designed to minimize visibility and blend with the
surrounding environment. All facilities shall be repainted as necessary.
(Ord. 2000-42, passed 10-16-2000)
CHAPTER 155:  FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
General Provisions; Definitions
   
155.01   Findings, purpose
   
155.02   Objectives
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   General provisions
Administration
   
155.15   Designation of Administrator
   
155.16   Permit procedure
   
155.17   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
155.30   General standards
   
155.31   Specific standards
   
155.32   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
155.33   Critical facility
   
155.34   Standards for identified floodways
   
155.35   Standards for identified fringe
   
155.36   Standards for SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or
floodways/fringes
   
155.37   Standards for flood-prone areas
Variance Procedures
   
155.50   Designation of Variance and Appeals Board
   
155.51   Duties of Variance and Appeals Board
   
155.52   Variance procedures
   
155.53   Conditions for variances
   
155.54   Variance notification
   
155.55   Historic structure
   
155.56   Special conditions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS; DEFINITIONS
§ 155.01  FINDINGS, PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The state legislature has in I.C. 36-7-4 and
I.C. 14-28-4 granted the power to local government units to control land use
within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the county and the respective Towns of
Millhousen, New Point, St. Paul and Westport do hereby adopt the following
floodplain management regulations.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the county and the respective Towns of
Millhousen, New Point, St. Paul and Westport are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
      (6)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures
and their contents in the county and the respective Towns of Millhousen, New
Point, St. Paul and Westport by fulfilling the requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.02  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is in
a flood area.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE.  Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination of both. In A ZONES, flood
waters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM or FHBM. The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   ZONE A.  Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30.  Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO.  Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (4)   ZONE AH.  Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (5)   ZONE AR.  Areas that result from the decertification of a
previously accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the
process of being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood
insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (6)   ZONE A99.  Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance
flood event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an
under-construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special
flood hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a
protection system, such as dikes, dams, and levees, to consider it complete for
insurance rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection
system has reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base
flood elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE).  A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation,
and be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE).  Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL.  A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT.  The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING.  See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY.  A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS).  A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY.  A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE.  A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE.  A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM.  The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT.  The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.  Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA.  The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD).  The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry (and areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM).  An official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration
(FIA) has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).  An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM, FBFM
(where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA.  Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. See FLOOD.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG).  The elevation of the regulatory flood plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA. See FREEBOARD.
   FLOODPLAIN.  The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.  The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.  This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances and other applications of police power which control
development in flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local
regulations in any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing
and reducing flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also
referred to as FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE and FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING).  A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE.  A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD.  A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE.  Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY.  A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP (AS RELATED TO VARIANCES OF THIS CHAPTER).  The exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC).  The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after June 1, 1997, will
include ICC coverage.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).  An amendment to the currently effective
FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is
only issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).  An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F).  An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; or
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls having a total net area of one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all such openings shall
be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the interior grade
immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT.  A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER.  The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix
assigned by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel,
and the letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been
revised. (The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first
revision.)
   MARKET VALUE.  The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between
a willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate
market will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified
appraisal, replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value),
or adjusted assessed values.
   MITIGATION.  Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk
to people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of
MITIGATION is two-fold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the
cost of disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).  The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the federal government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929.  As corrected in 1929, is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88).  As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION.  Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD).  The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD.  The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY.  Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR).  An official republication of a community’s
FEMA map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations,
floodplain boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric
features. These changes typically occur as a result of structural works or
improvements, annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or
correction to base flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.  Construction or substantial improvement that
started on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or
after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION.  Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the
initial FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION.  A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE.  Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which is: built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as quarters for
recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM.  The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any location is
as defined in §
155.04(B). The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL
CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS.  Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event for
which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316.  The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-
prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).  The lands within the jurisdiction of the
county and the Towns of Millhousen, New Point, St. Paul and Westport subject to
inundation by the county flood rate map dated October 16, 2013. The SFHAs of
the county and the Towns of Millhousen, New Point, St. Paul and Westport are
generally identified as such on the county, and incorporated Areas dated
October 16, 2013 as well as any future updates, amendments or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
(These areas are shown on a FIRM as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.  A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home, or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION.  The removal of a participating community from the NFIP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE.  A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION.  The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD) (other datum where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   X ZONE.  The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
Shaded X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B ZONES on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). Unshaded X ZONES (C ZONES on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE.  A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the
severity or type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A.  See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C AND X.  Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area; however,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities, but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(ZONE X is used on new and revised maps in place of ZONES B AND C.)
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.04  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
SFHAs and known flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the county, and
the respective Towns of Millhousen, New Point, St. Paul and Westport.
   (B)   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data. This chapter’s
protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best available regulatory
flood data is listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party needs to replace existing data with better data that meets
current engineering standards. To be considered, this data must be submitted to
the State Department of Natural Resources for review, and subsequently
approved.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county, Milhousen, New Point, St.
Paul and Westport shall be as delineated on the 1% annual chance flood profiles
in the flood insurance study of the county and incorporated areas and the
corresponding flood insurance rate map, dated October 16, 2013 as well as any
future updates, amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each
of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the county, Milhousen, New Point, St.
Paul and Westport, delineated as an “A Zone” on the county and incorporated
areas flood insurance rate map dated October 16, 2013 as well as any future
updates, amendments or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency with the most recent date, shall be according to the best data available
as provided by the State Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream
drainage area from the subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (3)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of
identification on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and
fringe limits of any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas
shall be according to the best data available as provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources; provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities in areas of
special flood hazard.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted or structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with
the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. No land or stream
within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions; however, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations.
      (1)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
      (2)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
      (3)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above
the base flood elevation, that site shall be considered outside the SFHA and
the floodplain regulations will not be applied. The property owner should be
advised to apply for a LOMA.
   (G)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (H)   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
      (1)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available
information derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
      (2)   Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
      (3)   Therefore, this chapter does not create any liability on the part
of the county, and the respective Towns of Millhousen, New Point, St. Paul and
Westport, the State Department of Natural Resources, or the state, for any
flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
   (I)   Increased cost of compliance (ICC). In order for buildings to qualify
for a claim payment under ICC coverage as a “repetitive loss structure”, the
National Reform Act of 1994 requires that the building be covered by a contract
for flood insurance and incur flood-related damages on two occasions during a
ten-year period ending on the date of the event for which the second claim is
made, in which the cost of repairing the flood damage, on the average, equaled
or exceeded 25% of the market value of the building at the time of each such
flood event.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.15  DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The county and the respective Towns of Millhousen, New Point, St. Paul and
Westport hereby appoint the County Area Plan Director to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred to as the
“Floodplain Administrator”.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.16  PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 88 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any nonresidential
structure will be floodproofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon placement of the lowest floor; or
floodproofing, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of
the lowest floor or floodproofed elevation, as built.
         (a)   Said certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer and
certified by the same.
         (b)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure said
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same. Any work undertaken
prior to submission of the certification shall be at the permit holder’s risk.
(The Floodplain Administrator shall review the lowest floor and floodproofing
elevation survey data submitted.)
         (c)   The permit holder shall correct deficiencies detected by such
review before any further work is allowed to proceed.
         (d)   Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said corrections
required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.17  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and complete
substantial damage determinations;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
155.34 and
155.36(A), and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
      (4)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits are to be maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
      (5)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA;
      (6)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map amendment
(LOMA), letters of map revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain
analysis and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit
documents and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this chapter;
      (7)   Utilize and enforce all letters of map revision (LOMR) or physical
map revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community;
      (8)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
      (9)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
155.16;
      (10)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
155.16;
      (11)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
      (12)   Stop-work orders.
         (a)   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
         (b)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner
of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and
shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
      (13)   Revocation of permits.
         (a)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the ordinance, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
         (b)   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
      (14)   Inspect sites for compliance. For all new and/or substantially
improved buildings constructed in the SFHA, inspect before, during and after
construction. Authorized county and town officials shall have the right to
enter and inspect properties located in the SFHA.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 155.30  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known floodprone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be
undertaken only if said nonconformity is not further extended, or replaced.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.31  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to the requirements of §
155.30, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure:
         (a)   Where the cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds
50% of the value of the existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
or
         (b)   With a previous addition or improvement constructed since the
community’s first floodplain ordinance.
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred.
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage.
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
   (B)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor; including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Nonresidential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or nonresidential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below. Structures located in all “A Zones” may be floodproofed in
lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
155.17(B)(10).
      (2)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls.
      (3)   Designs must meet the following minimum criteria.
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area).
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in
both directions.
         (d)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (e)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms.
         (f)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade.
         (g)   Where elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the
conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to
the structure’s originally approved design, shall be presented as a condition
of issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent land fill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method.
      (2)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the FPG.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely anchored
to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and
lateral movement. This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site:
         (a)   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision that has not been substantially damaged by a flood.
      (3)   Manufactured homes with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls as required for elevated structures in division (D) above.
      (4)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame or
foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days; and
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.32  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.33  CRITICAL FACILITY.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into flood waters, Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.34  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
155.04(B), are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the State Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1 a permit for
construction in a floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure; however, it does exclude non-substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of non-substantial additions/improvements to residences in
a non-boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the State Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval (construction in a floodway permit) for the fill is required from the
State Department of Natural Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the State Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in the floodway. Once a permit for
construction in a floodway has been issued by the State Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
155.30 through
155.37 have been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less
restrictive than the permit for construction in a floodway issued by the State
Department of Natural Resources; however, a community’s more restrictive
regulations (if any) shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory flood more
than 0.14 of one foot.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the County Area Plan Commission shall submit the data and request that
the Federal Emergency Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.35  STANDARDS FOR IDENTIFIED FRINGE.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in §§
155.30 through
155.37 have been met. The key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of
any new or substantially improved structure shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.36  STANDARDS FOR SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR
FLOODWAYS/FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment;
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment citing the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the
recommended flood protection grade has been received from the State Department
of Natural Resources; and
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, a floodplain development permit may be
issued provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the State Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in §§
155.30 through
155.37 have been met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site; and
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in §§
155.30 through
155.37 have been met.
   (C)   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the
regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not increase flood damages
or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.37  STANDARDS FOR FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   All development in known flood prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per §§
155.30 through
155.37.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
§ 155.50  DESIGNATION OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.51  DUTIES OF VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD.
   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in any
requirement, decision or determination is made by the Floodplain Administrator
in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by
the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the Decatur County
Circuit Court.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.52  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment of
transport of the flood waters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.53  CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; or
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
155.34 or §
155.36(A) may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
155.34 or §
155.36(A) of this chapter will require a permit from the State Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
155.31, may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation (see §
155.52).
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request (see §
155.52).
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.54  VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the Office of the County Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.55  HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.56  SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in §§
155.50 through
155.56, and the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   All violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as
such in accordance with the provisions of the zoning ordinance for the county.
   (C)   All violations shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $2,500.
      (1)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the
violation continues to exist.
      (2)   The County Area Plan Commission shall inform the owner that any
such violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and
therefore may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be
suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county and the respective Towns of
Millhousen, New Point, St. Paul and Westport from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2013-7, passed 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 156:  ZONING CODE
Section
   
156.01   Adoption by reference
§ 156.01  ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning ordinance of Decatur County is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed 9-15-1980; Ord. 1983-7, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 1986-7, passed 6-
4-1986; Ord. passed 4-1-1991; Ord. 1999-47, passed 9-7-1999; Ord. passed 10-18-
1999; Ord. 2004-17, passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 2004-18, passed 12-20-2004; Ord.
2004-19, passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 2004-21,
passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 2004-22, passed 12-20-2004; Ord. 2004-23, passed 12-20-
2004; Ord. 2006-9, passed 8-7-2006; Ord. 2007-04, passed 4-16-2007; Res. 2007-
12, passed 9-4-2007)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   LAND USE
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
1989-4      7-24-1989   Grants to County Cable Systems, Inc. a franchise for
                        cable television
Res. 1993-4 6-21-1993   Consents to transfer in relation to Ord. 1989-4
2003-3      3-17-2003   Renews and extends cable television franchise agreement
 
TABLE II:  LAND USE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.    Date Passed Description
-           4-20-1987   Unplatting and removal of “Woodland Estates”
                        subdivision
1987-3      5-4-1987    Describes area in ordinance establishing a change in
                        classification; correction
-           5-15-1989   Interlocal cooperation agreement; control of a portion
                        of Freeland Road
                        Accepts preliminary and final plot plans for county
1991-4      6-17-1991   club estates; permits residential subdivision for a
                        single-family residence district
2006-6      5-15-2006   Renames former U.S. Highway 421
2007-7      6-4-2007    Dissolves the Town of Milford
Res. 2015-1 1-20-2015   Transfer of real estate to City of Greensburg
                       
 
TABLE III:  VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
1990- 3-19-  Vacates a platted street 49.5 feet in width; and a platted alley 16.5 feet
1     1990   wide
1990- 12-3-  Vacates a platted alley which runs northwesterly
3     1990
1995- 4-3-   Vacates right-of-way between Lots 110 and 111
3     1995
2005- 4-18-  Vacates part of the southwest quarter of Section 23 in Township 10 North,
3     2005   Range 8 East, in Clay Township
Res.  7-3-   Vacates a portion of County Road 350 West; a portion of County Road 300
2006- 2006   North, and a portion of County Road 320 North
8
2010- 7-19-  Vacates public way; reserves public utility and drainage easements
2     2010
2013- 10-7-  Vacates a public way: Madison Street located south of Washington Street. The
6     2013   alley located between Lots 21 and 26. The alley located between Lots 22, 23,
             24 and 25 all located in the Town of Kingston
2014- 5-5-   Vacates public way: the alley running north and south between the south half
4     2014   of Lot 15 and 16 in the Town of Kingston
2017- 2-20-  Vacates a public way: 25-foot wide alley running north and south along the
2     2017   west sides of Lot 17 and Lot 52 in Lough and Shirk's Addition to Town of
             Waynesburg from southeast corner of Lot 17 to north end of Pearl Street
           16½-foot wide alley running east and west between Lot 17 and Lot 52 in Lough
             and Shirk's Addition to Town of Waynesburg
           16½-foot wide alley running east and west between Lots 20, 21, 22 and Lots
             347, 48 and 49 in the Lough and Shirk's Addition to the Town of Waynesburg
             50-foot wide street known as Pearl Street running east and west from the east
           line of Lot 50 if extended northerly to the east line of Lot 47 if extended
             northerly in the Lough and Shirk's Addition to the Town of Waynesburg
2017- 2-20-  Vacates a public way: 16½-foot wide alley running east and west between lots
3     2017   26, 27, 28 and Lots 41, 42, and 43 in the Lough and Shirk's Addition to the
             Town of Waynesburg
2017- 8-21-  Vacates a public way: alley running east and west between Lots 2 and 3 in the
14    2017   Town of Kingston
2020- 6-15-  Vacating an alley running north and south between Lots 42 and 43 in Joseph
5     2020   Kincaid’s Addition in the Town of Clarksburg
             Vacating R.R. Street running north and south from the middle of Walnut Street
             to the north end of an unnamed street on the north side; an alley running
2020- 8-17-  east and west from the east right of way of R.R. Street to the west right of
7     2020   way of Mill Street; an unnamed street running east and west on the north side
             of Lot 1 Block 11 from the east right of way of R.R. Street to the west right
             of way of Mill Street; all in the Town of Letts Corner.
            
 
TABLE IV:  ZONING MAP
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1986-2   5-19-1986   Permits a rural subdivision for a One- and Two-Family
                     Residence District
1986-6   6-16-1986   Rezones land from B-1 to B-2
1986-5   7-7-1986    Rezones land from A-1 to I-1
1986-6   10-20-1986  Rezones land from A-1 to B-2
1986-9   11-3-1986   Rezones land from A-1 to B-1
1986-10  12-15-1986  Rezones land from B-2 to I-1
1987-1   1-19-1987   Rezones land from A-1 to B-2
1987-1   3-16-1987   Rezones land from A-1 to I-1
1987-1   4-20-1987   Rezones Woodland Estates subdivision to A-1 District
1986-15  1-11-1988   Rezones land from A-1 to I-1
1991-2   2-19-1991   Rezones land from A-1 to R-1
1991-2   3-18-1991   Permits residential subdivision for a One-Family Residence
                     District
1995-1   4-3-1995    Permits subdivision with five lots in R-2 District
2013-9   5-19-2014   Rezones estate from A-1 to A-2
2013-10  5-19-2014   Rezones estate from A-1 to A-2
2014-2   5-19-2014   Rezones estate from A-1 to A-2
2014-3   5-19-2014   Rezones estate from A-1 to B-3
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Reference Code Section
I.C. Reference     Code Section
1-1-1-5            10.04
1-1-1-7            10.12
1-1-1-8            10.06
1-1-4-5            10.05
1-1-5-1            10.11
1-1-6-1            10.08
3-6-6-31(b)        33.013
4-21.5-3-7         150.23
5-4-1-18           32.10
5-11-1-10          30.10
5-11-1-21          30.10
5-11-1-27          30.10
5-11-1-27(e)       30.10
5-11-1-27(l)       30.10
5-14-1.5           31.21
5-14-3-3           30.11
5-14-3-4(a)        32.13
5-22-15-21         33.005
6-1.1-3-7.2        33.077
6-1.1-3-7.3        33.077
6-1.1-5.5          33.040
6-1.1-5.5-4        33.040
6-1.1-5.5-4.5      33.040
6-1.1-12-26.2      33.077
6-1.1-12-42        33.011
6-1.1-23-9         33.003
6-2.5              33.055
6-3.5-4            33.074
6-3.5-5-4          33.074
6-8.1-10-1         33.055
6-8.1-10-2.1       33.055
6-9-18             33.055
6-9-18-1 et seq.   31.05
8-1-22.6 et seq.   152.01
8-23-4             93.04
9-18-12            93.02
9-18.1-5-4         33.074
9-18.1-5-6         33.074
9-18.1-5-8         33.074
9-18.1-5-9         33.074
9-18.1-5-10        33.074
9-20               70.04
9-22-1-1 et seq.   93.03
9-22-1-2           93.03
10-14-3-12         31.22
10-14-3-17(c)      31.21
10-14-3-17(d)      31.21
10-14-3-29         31.22
10-14-3-31         31.22
10-16-7-9          31.20
10-16-7-10         31.20
11-8-8-21          33.073
11-12-2-2          31.03
12-10-15           110.02
14-8-2-18.5        70.03
14-16-1-1 et seq.  70.03
14-21-1-26.5(b)    50.04
14-28-1            155.34
14-28-1-26         155.34
15-16-7-1 et seq.  31.01
16-18-2-137        110.03
16-20-1-25         110.18
16-20-1-26         110.04
16-20-8-5          110.04
16-21              110.02
16-28              110.02
16-42-1-6          110.02
16-42-5-4          110.03
16-42-5-23         110.04
16-42-5.2          110.02
22-9-4-1 et seq.   90.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.   91.01
22-9.5-2-2         91.02
22-9.5-2-3         91.02
22-9.5-2-4         91.02
22-9.5-2-8         91.02
22-9.5-2-9         91.02
22-9.5-2-11        91.02
22-9.5-2-13        91.02
22-9.5-3           91.03
22-9.5-3 et seq.   91.09
22-9.5-4-8         91.10
22-9.5-5           91.02
22-9.5-6           91.02;
                   91.10
22-12              150.23
22-12-1-4          150.17
22-12-1-5          150.17
22-12-1-7          150.17
22-12-1-14         150.17
22-12-1-16         150.17
22-12-1-17         150.17
22-12-1-18         150.17
22-12-1-22(b)(12)  150.24
22-12-1-24         150.17
22-12-1-26         150.17
22-12-7            150.19
22-13              150.23
22-13-2-3(b)       150.24
22-13-2-5          150.25
22-13-2-6          150.18
22-13-2-7          150.23
22-13-2-7(b)       150.24
22-13-2-9          150.18
22-13-2-11         150.19
22-14              150.23
22-15              150.23
22-15-3            150.21
22-15-4            150.18
23-2-4             110.02
23-14-67-3.5       31.08
23-14-67-4         31.08
27-1-15.6-6(d)     30.11
27-7-3-2           30.11
27-7-3-6           30.11
31-16              31.04
31-37-12           31.04
32-25-2-9          150.17
32-29-7-3(d)       33.071
33-31.5-2-75       31.04
33-37-5-2          33.007
33-37-5-7          30.05
33-40-3            31.04
33-40-7-5          31.04
34-24              33.042
34-28-5            130.99
34-28-5-1          33.043
34-28-5-4          130.99
35-31.5-2-186      33.004
35-33-11-3         33.004
35-43-5-5(e)       33.009
35-47-8-3          130.01
35-50              33.004
36-1-3-8(a)(10)    10.99
36-1-4-16          31.10
36-1-5-4           150.24
36-1-6-9           150.23
36-1-8-5.1(b)      33.039
36-1-8.5-2         32.13
36-1-8.5-3         32.13
36-1-8.5-4         32.13
36-1-8.5-5         32.13
36-1-8.5-6         32.13
36-1-8.5-12        32.13
36-2-2-2           33.005
36-2-5-2           33.042
36-2-5-3           32.03
36-2-7-10          33.075;
                   153.08
36-2-7-10.1        30.11
36-2-7-10.1(d)     30.11
36-2-7-10.1(f)     30.11
36-2-7-10.1(h)     30.11
36-2-7.5           33.041
36-2-7.5-6         33.041
36-2-7.5-11        33.041
36-2-11-14         33.076
36-2-13-15         33.004
36-2-19            153.01
36-2-19-4          153.02
36-7-4             155.01
36-7-4-216         31.10
36-7-4-223(c)      31.10
36-7-4-902         31.10
36-7-8-3           150.25
36-7-8-9           150.23
36-7-9-1—36-7-9-2150.03
36-7-9-14          150.03
36-7-9-27          150.03
36-7-12-4          31.07
36-7-12-7          31.07
36-8-16.6          31.02;
                   33.070
36-8-16.7          31.02;
                   33.070
36-8-17            150.22
36-9-14.5          33.031
36-9-14.5-2        33.008
36-10-3-20         33.030
36-12-6            30.01
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
-         5-2-1983    30.01;
                      30.99
-         3-18-1991   32.02
-         4-4-1991    33.032
-         4-4-1991    51.01
1993-4    6-21-1993   TSO I
-         4-17-1995   33.002
1999-1    5-17-1999   33.006
CC 1999-1 5-18-1999   32.05
-         8-2-1999    150.02
2001-3    7-16-2001   70.03
-         4-30-2002   33.010
2006-8    7-3-2006    TSO III
2007-12   9-4-2007    156.01
CC 2012-2 7-17-2012   32.09
2014-7    6-16-2014   31.03
2015-1    1-20-2015   TSO II
2017-17   9-5-2017    33.015
-         11-20-2017  33.078
-         11-18-2019  33.078
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
-             9-15-1980   156.01
CC 1981-1     1-13-1981   33.030
1983-7        12-19-1983  156.01
1984-1        7-2-1984    32.01
1-1985        5-20-1985   Ch. 73, Sch. I
2-1985        6-17-1985   31.01
1986-2        5-19-1986   TSO IV
1986-7        6-4-1986    156.01
1986-6        6-16-1986   TSO IV
1986-5        7-7-1986    TSO IV
1986-6        10-20-1986  TSO IV
1986-9        11-3-1986   TSO IV
1986-10       12-15-1986  TSO IV
1987-1        1-19-1987   TSO IV
1987-1        3-16-1987   TSO IV
1987-2        4-6-1987    33.031
-             4-20-1987   TSO II
1987-1        4-20-1987   TSO IV
1987-3        5-4-1987    TSO II
1986-15       1-11-1988   TSO IV
1988-8        11-7-1988   33.001
-             5-15-1989   TSO II
1989-4        7-24-1989   TSO I
1989-5        7-24-1989   Ch. 72, Sch. I
1990-1        3-19-1990   TSO III
1990-20       8-27-1990   33.070
1990-3        12-3-1990   TSO III
1991-2        2-19-1991   TSO IV
1991-2        3-18-1991   TSO IV
-             4-1-1991    156.01
                          151.01—
1991-2        4-1-1991    151.10;
                          151.99
1991-4        6-17-1991   TSO II
CC 1991-100   7-10-1991   31.02
-             12-2-1991   33.033
1992-1        2-3-1992    Ch. 72, Sch. I
1992-5        12-14-1992  Ch. 72, Sch. III
1993-1        1-4-1993    30.02
CC 1995-2     3-15-1995   33.034
CC 1995-3     3-29-1995   33.056
1995-1        4-3-1995    TSO IV
1995-3        4-3-1995    TSO III
1995-4        6-19-1995   33.003
CC 1995-8     1-2-1996    32.03
                          130.01—
1996-3        5-6-1996    130.03;
                          130.99
CC 1996-3     7-25-1996   33.055
1996-5        10-21-1996  33.075
CC 1997-1     2-27-1997   32.04
1997-4        7-21-1997   31.04
                          71.01—
1997-21       10-6-1997   71.05;
                          71.99
1998-4        - -1998     150.03
                          94.01—
1998-5        7-20-1998   94.04;
                          94.99
1998-6        - -1998     Ch. 72, Sch. I
1998-2        2-2-1998    70.01;
                          70.99
1998-3        5-4-1998    70.02
CC 1998-7     6-15-1998   33.004
1998-8        8-17-1998   Ch. 72, Sch. I
1998-11       9-8-1998    150.01
1998-12       9-8-1998    31.05
1998-14       12-28-1998  33.005
1999-1        1-19-1999   Ch. 72, Sch. I
1999-2        2-15-1999   33.035
1999-3        7-20-1999   33.036
1999-6        8-16-1999   Ch. 72, Sch. I
1999-47       9-7-1999    156.01
-             10-18-1999  156.01
1999-10       11-15-1999  Ch. 72, Sch. I
CC 2000-1     2-15-2000   33.037
2000-6        6-5-2000    Ch. 72, Sch. I
2000-42       10-16-2000  154.01—
                          154.06
CC 2001-7     8-21-2001   33.007
2001-6        9-17-2001   33.008
2001-9        12-3-2001   33.009
CC 2002-2     2-4-2002    33.038
2002-14       8-5-2002    30.03
2002-15       9-5-2002    30.04
2002-19       11-4-2002   Ch. 72, Sch. I
                          150.15—
2003-2        3-17-2003   150.25;
                          150.99
2003-3        3-17-2003   TSO I
2003-6        4-21-2003   Ch. 72, Sch. I
2003-7        4-21-2003   30.05
CC 2003-11    5-20-2003   33.074
CC 2004-1     3-30-2004   33.011
2004-4        4-19-2004   33.012
2004-5        5-17-2004   92.01—
                          92.07
2004-6        5-17-2004   Ch. 72, Sch. I
2004-7        6-7-2004    Ch. 72, Sch. I
2004-3        7-20-2004   33.039
2004-14       9-7-2004    93.01—
                          93.08
2004-16       11-15-2004  32.06
CC 2004-4     11-23-2004  33.040
2004-17       12-20-2004  156.01
2004-18       12-20-2004  156.01
2004-19       12-20-2004  156.01
2004-20       12-20-2004  156.01
2004-21       12-20-2004  156.01
2004-22       12-20-2004  156.01
2004-23       12-20-2004  156.01
                          50.01—
2005-10       - -2005     50.08;
                          50.99
2005-1        3-7-2005    30.06
2005-3        4-18-2005   TSO III
2005-4        5-2-2005    30.07
2005-11       11-7-2005   33.041
2005-12       12-19-2005  33.071
2005-13       12-19-2005  30.08;
                          30.99
CC 2006-1     2-20-2006   33.072
                          110.01—
                          110.04;
2006-4        3-20-2006   110.15—
                          110.19;
                          110.99
                          110.15—
2006-5        3-20-2006   110.19;
                          110.99
2006-6        5-15-2006   TSO II
2006-7        5-15-2006   31.06
2006-9        8-7-2006    156.01
2006-11       9-18-2006   Ch. 72, Sch. I
2007-22       - -2007     33.073
CC 2007-1     1-16-2007   31.07
2007-04       4-16-2007   156.01
2007-7        6-4-2007    TSO II
2007-9        6-18-2007   Ch. 72, Sch. I
CC 2007-11    8-21-2007   33.042
2007-14       9-4-2007    31.08
2008-05       - -2008     153.01—
                          153.11
2008-1        1-22-2008   70.04
2008-3        4-21-2008   Ch. 72, Sch. I
CC 2008-4     11-18-2008  32.07
CC 2008-06    12-16-2008  33.043
CC 2009-1     2-17-2009   33.070
2010-1        3-15-2010   30.09
2010-2        7-19-2010   TSO III
                          90.01—
2010-4        9-7-2010    90.07;
                          90.99;
                          Ch. 90, App. A
2011-4        9-19-2011   33.076
CC 2011-7     10-18-2011  33.044
2011-8        12-5-2011   31.20—
                          31.22
2012-02       6-18-2012   32.08
2012-07       6-18-2012   32.08
2012-6        9-4-2012    33.013
-             9-17-2012   152.01
2012-09       11-19-2012  31.09
2012-10       11-19-2012  90.99
2013-3        2-4-2013    Ch. 72, Sch. II
2013-4        2-4-2013    Ch. 72, Sch. II
2013-5        7-1-2013    33.014
2013-6        10-7-2013   TSO III
                          155.01—
                          155.04;
                          155.15—
                          155.17;
2013-7        10-7-2013   155.30—
                          155.37;
                          155.50—
                          155.56;
                          155.99
2013-12       11-18-2013  32.08
2013-15       12-16-2013  Ch. 72, Sch. III
2013-9        5-19-2014   TSO IV
2013-10       5-19-2014   TSO IV
2014-2        5-19-2014   TSO IV
2014-3        5-19-2014   TSO IV
2014-14       9-2-2014    94.10
2014-16       11-3-2014   Adopting Ordinance
2015-2        5-18-2015   Ch. 73, Sch. I
150.04        2-15-2016   150.04
CC 2016-1     2-16-2016   33.077
CC 2016-4     5-17-2016   32.10
CC 2016-5     6-14-2016   33.074
2016-6        6-20-2016   30.10
2017-1        1-17-2017   31.10
2017-2        2-20-2017   TSO III
2017-3        2-20-2017   TSO III
2017-14       8-21-2017   TSO III
2017-15       8-21-2017   32.12
2017-16       8-21-2017   30.11
2017-19       12-12-2017  33.079
CC2017-20     12-12-2017  33.074
2018-2        1-16-2018   30.11
2018-3        2-19-2018   Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2018-3 Amd. 1 5-21-2018   Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2018-3 Amd. 2 8-20-2018   Ch. 72, Sch. IV
2018-11       7-16-2018   91.01—
                          91.11
2018-12       7-16-2018   32.11
2017-1 Amd. 1 3-2-2020    31.10
2019-6        8-5-2019    33.045,
                          33.080
2019-7        9-2-2019    33.081
2019-10       10-7-2019   33.082
2019-12       10-22-2019  33.046
2020-5        6-15-2020   TSO III
2020-6        7-20-2020   32.08
2020-7        8-17-2020   TSO III
2020-8        8-17-2020   Ch. 72, Sch. I
2020-9        9-8-2020    32.13
                         
 
