DYER, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-45 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. No. 2025-02, passed 2-20-25
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   The Dyer Town Code is a codification of the general and permanent Ordinances
and Resolutions of the Town enacted through Ordinance No. 94-25, passed
December 13, 1994, and Resolution No. 94-1 adopted April 12, 1994.
   Special Ordinances which relate to limited or special purposes, such as bond
issues, specific zoning lot changes, salaries, budgets, appropriations,
transfers and the levying of special assessments, are not included. Such
special ordinances and resolutions are continued in full force and effect and
are not affected by this codification.
   The Ordinances contained in this Code were organized by subject matter
classifications. Obsolete and conflicting provisions have been eliminated and
the remaining laws, edited and revised where necessary. To facilitate usage,
the Code Chapters are arranged by subject matter, and numbered consecutively.
Each Chapter is preceded by a Chapter Table of Contents which designates the
material included within the Chapter.
   The Comparative Tables Chapter lists all ordinances and resolutions
contained in this Code chronologically by ordinance number or resolution
number, and identifies date of passage, the former ordinance Section or
resolution Section and the new Code Section of this Code. Where appropriate,
the Chapters have been subdivided into Articles, Divisions, and Sections.
Catchlines describe the contents of each Section and appear in bold print as a
further reference aid.
   Footnotes are contained throughout the Code with reference to important
State law citations. Historical information, where applicable, is at the end of
each Section identifying in parenthesis the order or resolution number,
section, and date of passage or adoption.
   Hoosier Codification Service, Inc. wishes to express their appreciation for
the cooperation and assistance of all of the Dyer Town Officials and employees
during the preparation of the Dyer Codification, and especially: Maryann Brown,
Clerk-Treasurer; Catherine A. Koschal, Council President; Edward Altgilbers,
former Vice-President of the Town Council; Michael J. Kapitan, former Council
Member; Jeffery Keilman, former Council Member; Dennis M. Hawrot, Vice-
President; Steven M. Bodnar, Sr., Council Member; John N. Korfias, Council
Member; Jacqueline A. Kennedy, Council Member; Glen Eberly, Town Council
Coordinator; John Tweedle, former Town Attorney; John Sedia, Town Attorney and
Rick Eberly, Zoning Administrator. General supervision in preparation of Dyer
Town Code was by attorney Kathleen C. Farrand, Betty Lou Nimtz, Chief Editorial
Assistant, Sherri Cochran, Productions and Graphics Assistant, Raelyn Harris,
Senior Editorial Assistant, and Kimberly A. Clark, Editorial Assistant.
   Hoosier Codification Service, Inc.
   South Bend, Indiana
   March 14, 1995
Certification
   We, the members of the Town Council, and Maryann Brown, Clerk-Treasurer, of
the Town of Dyer, County of Lake, the State of Indiana, hereby certify that the
general and permanent Ordinances and Resolutions of the Town of Dyer, Indiana,
as revised, amended, restated, rearranged, renumbered, and recodified, and
presented in 12 Chapters, are correct as printed, and constitute the Dyer Town
Code.
   Signed this           day of                   , 1995.
                           Dyer Town Council
      By:
      Catherine A. Koschal, Council President
      Dennis M. Hawrot, Council Vice-President
      Steven M. Bodnar, Sr., Council Member
      John N. Korfias, Council Member
      Jacqueline A. Kennedy, Council Member
Attest:
Maryann Brown, Clerk-Treasurer
Attest as to Legality:
John Sedia, Town Attorney
Officials of the
Town of Dyer, Indiana
2024
Town Council
Bob Starkey - President, Ward 1
Annette Ludwig - Vice President, Ward 5
Mary K. Timm, Ward 2
Jenna Ogrizovich, Ward 3
Mary Tanis, Ward 4
Debbie Astor, Clerk-Treasurer
David Hein, Town Manager
Joseph Martin, Fire Chief
William Alcott, Chief of Police
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 95-5
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF DYER,
INDIANA; ESTABLISHING THE SAME; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES
NOT INCLUDED THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREIN PROVIDED; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF
AMENDING SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES; PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS THEREOF;
PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE AND OFFICIALLY ADOPTING
THE DYER TOWN CODE.
                                                                                                                      
   Whereas, Indiana Code § 36-1-5-3 mandates that the legislative body of every
City, Town, and County shall codify all of their ordinances which are of a
general and permanent nature into a complete and simplified Code; and
   Whereas, the Town of Dyer has reviewed all of their laws and has identified
all laws which should become part of the Dyer Town Code; and
   Whereas, the Town Council of Dyer, Indiana, believes that this codification
and adoption of the Dyer Town Code is in the best interests of the Town;
   Now, therefore, be it ordained by the Town Council of the Town of Dyer,
Indiana, as follows:
   Section I. The following codification and revision of ordinances consisting
of Chapters 1 through 12, inclusive, entitled "Dyer Town Code", two (2) copies
of which shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer is hereby
adopted and enacted as the Dyer Town Code for the Town of Dyer, Lake County,
State of Indiana.
   The format of the Dyer Town Code is as follows:
      Title Page
      Preface Page
      Table of Contents Page
      Certification Page
      Public Officials Page
      A Brief History of Dyer, Indiana
      Chapter 1   -   General Provisions
      Chapter 2   -   Town Administration
      Chapter 3   -   Town Legislative and Judicial Branches
      Chapter 4   -   Fees, Licenses and Permits
      Chapter 5   -   Parks and Recreation
      Chapter 6   -   Public Health and Safety
      Chapter 7   -   Building and Construction Regulations
      Chapter 8   -   Traffic and Parking Regulations
      Chapter 9   -   Utilities
      Chapter 10   -   Zoning and Subdivisions
      Chapter 11   -   Comparative Tables
      Chapter 12   -   Code Index
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
   It shall be treated and considered as a codification and revision of
ordinances of the Town of Dyer which shall supersede all other general and
permanent ordinances passed and adopted by the Town Council on or before
December 13, 1994, the date when Ordinance No. 94-25 was passed, the last
Ordinance included therein, except those exceptionally saved from repeal or
continued as restatements or reenactments of original ordinances and amendments
thereto which are in full force and effect for any purpose. And it shall be
treated and considered as a codification and revision of ordinances of the Town
of Dyer which shall supersede all other general and permanent resolutions
passed and adopted by the Town Council on or before April 12, 1994, the date
when Res. No. 94-11 was adopted.
   Section II. All provisions of the Dyer Town Code shall be in full force and
effect following publication of this ordinance, and all ordinances of a general
and permanent nature of the Town of Dyer, Indiana, enacted on final passage on
or before December 13, 1994 and not incorporated in this Code or recognized and
continued in force by reference therein are hereby repealed from and after the
effective date of this ordinance, except as herein provided.
   Section III. The repeal provided for in Section II shall not affect any
offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture incurred or
imposed before the effective date of this ordinance; nor shall such repeal
affect any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money for the Town, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the Town or any
evidence of the Town's indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by
the Town; nor shall such repeal affect the administrative ordinances or
resolutions of the Council, not in conflict or inconsistent with the provisions
of such Code; nor shall such repeal affect any right of franchise granted by
any ordinance or resolution of the Council of any person, firm or corporation;
nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing,
locating, relocating, opening, closing, paving, widening or establishing grades
of any street or public way in the Town; nor shall such repeal affect any
ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein; nor shall such repeal
affect any ordinance or resolution relating to salaries of Town employees; nor
shall such repeal affect any ordinance providing for local improvements and
levying special assessments therefor; nor shall such repeal affect any
ordinance dedicating or accepting any plat or ordinance extending the
boundaries of the Town; nor shall such repeal affect any ordinance or
resolution establishing, re-establishing or modifying the boundaries or zoning
districts, or changing the zoning classification of any lot or parcel of land;
or vacations of public property; or real or personal tax abatement. Each of the
above-mentioned ordinances shall in no way be repealed by this ordinance except
as the same may be in conflict with the provisions of such Code.
   Section IV. Any and all additions or amendments to such Code, when passed in
such form as to indicate the intention of the Council to make the same a part
thereof, shall be deemed to be incorporated in such Code, so that reference to
the Dyer Town Code shall be understood and intended to include such additions
and amendments.
   Section V. Two (2) copies of the Dyer Town Code shall be kept on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer, or someone authorized by her, to insert into
their designated places all amendments or ordinances which indicate the
intention of the Council to make the same a part of such Code when the same
shall have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to extract from such
Code all provisions which may be from time to time repealed by the Council. A
copy of such Code shall be available to all persons desiring to examine the
same and shall be considered the official Code of the Town of Dyer, Indiana.
   Section VI. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
change by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or to
insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the Code, any ordinance, or the
law of the Town of Dyer to be misrepresented thereby. Any person, firm or
corporation violating this Section shall be punished as provided in 1-9 of such
Code.
   Section VII. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Council
that the Sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, phrases of such Code are
severable and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, Section, Article,
Division, or Chapter of such Code shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid
by the valid judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of such Code.
   Section VIII. Whenever in this ordinance or in such Code an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in
this ordinance or in such Code the doing of any act is required or the failure
to do any act is declared to be unlawful, the violation of any such provision
of this ordinance or of such Code shall be punished by a fine not exceeding Two
Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00). The fine assessed for the violation
of any ordinance requiring a license may be a sum equal to the amount required
by the ordinance to be paid for such license, unless otherwise provided.
   Section IX. In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of such Code
shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be by the Town abated as provided by
law, and each day such condition shall continue to be regarded as a new and
separate offense.
   Section X. The following fees and fines are specifically established as part
of this ordinance:
   Dyer Town Code, § 4-10   -   Five dollars ($5.00) for a copy of the first
page of an incident report, and three dollars ($3.00) for all subsequent pages.
   Dyer Town Code, § 4-38   -   A fee of $40.00 for each reinspection required
for plumbing, house drainage and sewers.
   Dyer Town Code, § 7-60   -   Three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) fee for
beginning work without a permit and being "red-tagged".
   Dyer Town Code, § 7-64   -   Plumbing, House Drainage and Sewer Work
reinspection or inspection subsequent to red tag - $40.00 fee.
   Dyer Town Code, § 7-67   -   Reinspection fee of $40.00 established with
$15.00 addressing administrative expenses and the remaining $25.00 being paid
to the inspector.
   Dyer Town Code, § 8-106 -   Traffic fine of $22.00 plus $3.00 State
Certificate fee for a moving violation and a penalty of $15.00 for a parking
violation.
   Dyer Town Code, § 8-160 -   Impounded Vehicle fees and charges which are
posted and approved.
   Section XI. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section XII. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval as provided by law.
   Passed by the Town Council of the Town of Dyer, Indiana, on this 11th day of
April, 1995.
                              Town Council of Dyer, Indiana
                              By:
                                 Catherine A. Koschal /s/
                                 President
                                 Dennis M. Howrot /s/
Attest:                              Vice-President
Maryann Brown /s/          Steven M. Bodnar Sr. /s/
Clerk-Treasurer                        Council Member
                                 John W. Korfias /s/
Attest as to Legality:                     Council Member
John Sedia /s/                                                               
Town Attorney                        Jacqueline A. Kennedy, Council Member
ORDINANCE NO. 95-31
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE TOWN OF DYER, LAKE COUNTY, INDIANA.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the First Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Dyer,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
original Codification of Ordinances of the Town; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Dyer,
State of Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the First Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Dyer as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its date of passage.
PASSED this 14th day of November, 1995.
             NAYS                               AYES
                                                                                                                    
                                                             John W. Korfias /
s/
                                                             Catherine A.
Koschal /s/
                                                             Steven M. Bodnar,
Sr. /s/
                                                             Jacqueline A.
Kennedy /s/
                                                                                                                     
   Town Council
   Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana
ATTEST:
Maryann Brown /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 96-38
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE TOWN OF DYER, LAKE COUNTY, INDIANA.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
contracted with the Town of Dyer to continually supplement the Code of
Ordinances of the Town of Dyer by receiving from the Town of Dyer Ordinances as
may be enacted from time to time by the Town Council of the Town of Dyer and
inserting them into the appropriate section of the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Dyer; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation prior to inserting these
Ordinances into the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Dyer, may make, from time
to time, footnotes and other parenthetical references to Sections of the
Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Dyer Town Council to accept these enacted
Ordinances as a part of the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Dyer, Indiana
from American Legal Publishing Corporation;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Dyer, Lake
County, Indiana that all supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Dyer as might be submitted to the Town of Dyer by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati with the exact wording as passed by the Dyer Town
Council are adopted, incorporated and made a part of the Code of Ordinances of
the Town of Dyer, Indiana upon their receipt from American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, together with any footnotes or other parenthetical
references to the Indiana Code.
   ALL OF WHICH IS ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Dyer, Lake
County, Indiana this 11th day of June, 1996.
             NAYS                               AYES
                                                             Dennis M. Hawrot /
s/
                                 President
                                                             Steven M. Bodnar,
Sr. /s/                                  Vice-President
                                                             John W. Korfias /
s/                                  Council Member
                                                             Paul Hayes /s/
                                 Council Member
                                                             Jacqueline A.
Kennedy /s/                                  Council Member
   Town Council
   Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana
ATTEST:
Thomas G. Hoffman /s/
Clerk-Treasurer
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 25-05,
adopted 5-15-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
ARTICLE 1. IN GENERAL.
Sec. 1-1   Code Citation and Designation.
Sec. 1-2   Effective Date of Code; Repeal of General Ordinances in Conflict;
Savings Clause.
Sec. 1-3   Definitions.
Sec. 1-4   Code Applications.
Sec. 1-5   Interpretation of Section Numbers.
Sec. 1-6   Repeal Shall Not Revive Ordinances.
Sec. 1-7   Effective Date of Ordinances.
Sec. 1-8   Severability of Code.
Sec. 1-9   General Penalties.
Sec. 1-10   Supplementation of Code.
Sec. 1-11   Codes - Property of the Town.
Sec. 1-12   Errors and Omissions.
Sec. 1-13   Town Seal.
ARTICLE 1. IN GENERAL.
Sec. 1-1 Code Citation and Designation.1
The ordinances and resolutions contained in the following Chapters, Articles,
Divisions and Sections shall constitute and be designated as the "Dyer Town
Code," and may be cited as the "Town Code" or in the provisions which follows
as "this Code."
                                
1   I.C., §§ 36-1-5-1 through 36-1-5-6, address the codification of ordinances
by all units of government except Townships.
Sec. 1-2 Effective Date of Code; Repeal of General Ordinances in Conflict;
Savings Clause. 2
   (a)   All of the provisions of this Code shall be in full force and effect
from the date of passage and the filing of this Code in the offices of the
Clerk-Treasurer, and all other ordinances of a general and permanent nature in
force at that time are hereby repealed from and after said date.
   (b)   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall affect
any ordinance:
      (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the Town, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the Town or any evidence of the Town's
indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the Town;
      (2)   Granting any right or franchise;
      (3)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the Town;
      (4)   Making any appropriation;
      (5)   Levying or imposing taxes;
      (6)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the Town;
      (7)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefore;
      (8)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the Town or
otherwise relating to subdivisions;
      (9)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the Town;
      (10)   Prescribing the number, classification benefits or compensation of
any Town officers or employees, not inconsistent herewith;
      (11)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no-parking zones;
specific speed zones; parking meter zones; and specific stop or yield
intersections;
      (12)   Pertaining to zoning or the Town's zoning jurisdiction;
      (13)   Relating to taxation, not inconsistent with this Code;
      (14)   Which is temporary, although general in effect;
      (15)   Which is special, although permanent in effect;
      (16)   The purpose of which has been accomplished; and all such
ordinances are recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same
extent as if set out at length in this Code. Such ordinances are on file in the
Clerk-Treasurer's Office.
                                
2   Adoption of ordinances and resolutions and publication of a Town Code see:
I.C., §§ 36-5-2-10 and 36-5-2-10.2.
Sec. 1-3 Definitions. 3
   (a)   In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following
definitions shall be applied:
      (1)   Board means the Town Council of the Town, except where the context
clearly indicates otherwise.
      (2)   Clerk-Treasurer means the Clerk and Fiscal Officer of the Town of
Dyer.
      (3)   Code means the Dyer Town Code.
      (4)   Council means the Town Council.
      (5)   County means the County of Lake, State of Indiana.
      (6)   Et seq. is the Latin phrase meaning and the following.
      (7)   Gender means words used in the masculine gender shall include
feminine and neuter.
      (8)   I.C., shall refer to state law found in the Indiana Code.
      (9)   Law includes the Constitution of Indiana, statutes, and ordinances.
      (10)   May is permissive.
      (11)   Must and shall are each mandatory.
      (12)   Oath includes an affirmation of declaration in all cases in which,
by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the
words swear and sworn shall be equivalent to the words affirm and affirmed.
      (13)   Owner, applied to a building or land, includes any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the
whole or a part of such building or land.
      (14)   Person means any individual, firm, corporation, association,
fiduciary, or governmental entity.
      (15)   State means the State of Indiana.
      (16)   Street means all streets, highways, avenues, boulevards, lanes,
courts, squares, roads, alleys, viaducts, or other public ways in the Town
which have been or may hereafter be dedicated and open to public use.
      (17)   Town means the Town of Dyer, Indiana, or the area within the
territorial limits of the Town of Dyer, Indiana, and such territory, if any,
outside of the Town over which the Town has jurisdiction or control by virtue
of any constitutional or statutory provision.
      (18)   Town Council means and includes all former references to the Board
of Trustees.4
                                
3   I.C., §§ 36-1-2-1 through 36-1-2-24, set forth the definitions of general
applicability.
4   On March 30, 1989, House Enrolled Act No. 1042 took effect officially
changing the terms "Board of Trustees" to Town Council."
Sec. 1-4 Code Application.
This Code shall refer only to the omission or commission of acts within the
territorial limits of the Town of Dyer and to that territory outside this Town,
if any, over which the Town has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
constitutional provision or law.
Sec. 1-5 Interpretation of Section Numbers.
   (a)   Each Chapter is comprised of Articles which address subject matter
classifications within the Chapter. Articles may then be divided into
Divisions, which further define the particular topic.
   (b)   Each Section of this Code shall be numbered consecutively by Chapter.
The number shall consist of two (2) component parts separated by a dash, the
figure before the dash referring to the Chapter number, and the figure after
the dash referring to the position of the Section within the Chapter.
   (c)   The decimal system shall be used for all additions or amendments to
this Code. When a Chapter or Section is to be added, the new Chapter or Section
shall he given a decimal character.
Sec. 1-6 Repeal Shall Not Revive Ordinances.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not repeal the repealing clause of an
ordinance or revive any ordinances which have been repealed thereby.
Sec. 1-7 Effective Date of Ordinances.
Unless otherwise expressly provided, an ordinance shall take effect when passed
according to Indiana Code, § 36-4-6-14.
Sec. 1-8 Severability of Code.
If any Chapter, Article, Division, Section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Code is for any reason declared to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this Code.
Sec. 1-9 General Penalties.
   (a)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Code shall be
guilty of an ordinance violation.5
   (b)   Each day a violation of this Code is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense.6
   (c)   Except in cases where a minimum fine is prescribed by a specific
Section of this Code, any person convicted of an ordinance violation shall be
punished by a fine of not more than Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars
($2,500.00).7
   (d)   The Town may bring a civil action to enjoin any person from:
      (1)   Violating any ordinance regulating or prohibiting a condition or
use of property; or8
      (2)   Engaging in conduct without a license if an Ordinance requires a
license to engage in the conduct.9
   (e)   The court may suspend all or any part of a penalty imposed for an
ordinance violation and may require as a condition of such suspension that the
defendant shall perform uncompensated work that benefits the community.
                                
5   I.C., §§ 34-4-32-1 through 34-4-32-5, address infraction and ordinance
violation enforcement proceedings.
6   I.C., § 9-4-1-127.1, addresses Class C infractions.
7   I.C., § 36-1-38, authorizes a maximum fine of $2,500 for an ordinance
violation.
8   I.C., § 36-1-6-2, addresses ordinance violations affecting real property an
the Town taking expenses of compliance as a lien against the property.
9   I.C., § 36-1-6-4, addresses injunctions.
Sec. 1-10 Supplementation of Code.
   (a)   By contract or by Town personnel, supplements to this Code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Town Council. A
supplemental update to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and
general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement
and all changes made thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have became obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (b)   In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (c)   When preparing a supplement of this Code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to so do to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for Sections
and other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to Sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing Section and other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words "this Ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this Chapter," "this Article," etc., as the case may be, or to "Sections
_____to____" (inserting Section numbers to indicate the Sections of this Code
which embody the substantive Sections of the Ordinance incorporated into the
Code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance Sections inserted into the Code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-11 Codes - Property of Town.
All copies of the Dyer The Code except those which are sold by the Town at a
price established by the Town Council, shall be the property of the Town of
Dyer, and any such copies delivered over to elected and/or appointed officials
or officials shall not retain said documents after the expiration of their term
or terms of office or appointment.
Sec. 1-12 Errors and Omission.
If a manifest error be discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word or
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, or the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and
such word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same affect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exist regarding the nature of extent
of the error.
Sec. 1-13 Town Seal. 10
   (a)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall be the custodian of the Town's seal and
affix it to such documents and instruments as required
   (b)   The Town Seal of Dyer shall be the form and style as affixed to the
Certification page of this Code.
                                
10   I.C., § 36-1-4-4, authorizes a Town to have a Corporate seal.
CHAPTER 2
TOWN ADMINISTRATION
Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 25-05,
adopted 5-15-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
ARTICLE 1. THE TOWN CLERK-TREASURER.
Sec. 2-1   Term of Office of Clerk-Treasurer.
Sec. 2-2   Powers and Duties of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Sec. 2-3   Compensation of Clerk-Treasurer.
Sec. 2-4   Deputies and Employees.
Sec. 2-5   Clerk-Treasurer Authorized to Invest and Reinvest Surplus Monies.
Sec. 2-6   Clerk-Treasurer Authorized to Make Claim Payments Prior to Town
Council/Board Approval.
Sec. 2-7   Clerk-Treasurer Authorized to Pay County Expenses and Obligation.
Sec. 2-8   Clerk-Treasurer Authorized to Verify Information.
Sec. 2-9   Clerk-Treasurer's Role Regarding Mail.
Sec. 2-10   Clerk-Treasurer's Role Regarding Maintaining Documents.
Sec. 2-11   Clerk-Treasurer to Oversee Ordinance Violations Bureau.
Sec. 2-12   through Sec. 2-19 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. THE TOWN MANAGER.
Sec. 2-20   Through Sec. 2-22 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. DEPARTMENTS OF THE TOWN.
   Division I. In General.
Sec. 2-23   Town Departments.
Sec. 2-24   Organizational Charts.
Sec. 2-25 and Sec. 2-41 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division II. Department of Parks and Recreation.
Sec. 2-42   Department of Parks and Recreation Established.
Sec. 2-43   Dyer Park and Recreation Board
Sec. 2-44   Powers and Duties of the Board.
Sec. 2-45   Park Rules and Regulations.
Sec. 2-46   Peer-to-Peer Payment Apps Accepted.
Sec. 2-47 through Sec. 2-54 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division III. Department of Public Works.
Sec. 2-55   Department of Public Works Created.
Sec. 2-56   Director and Duties.
Sec. 2-57   Public Works Regulations.
Sec. 2-58   Department of Public Works Non-Smoking Policy.
Sec. 2-59 and Sec. 2-60 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division IV. Department of Redevelopment.
Sec. 2-61   Department of Redevelopment Established.
Sec. 2-62   Redevelopment Districts.
Sec. 2-63   Terms of Redevelopment Commissioners.
Sec. 2-64 through Sec. 2-67 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division V. Department of Storm Water Management.
Sec. 2-68   Department of Storm Water Management.
Sec. 2-69   Territory Included with Districts.
Sec. 2-70   Board of Storm Water Management.
Sec. 2-71   Special Taxing District.
Sec. 2-72 through Sec. 2-74 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VI. Department of Waterworks.
Sec. 2-75   Department of Waterworks.
Sec. 2-76   Board of Directors.
Sec. 2-77   Powers and Duties.
Sec. 2-78   Waterworks Regulations.
Sec. 2-79 through Sec. 2-81 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VII. Other Support Services.
Sec. 2-82   Engineering Services.
Sec. 2-83   Legal Services.
Sec. 2-84 through Sec. 2-89 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VIII. Metropolitan Police Department.
Sec. 2-90   Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners Established.
Sec. 2-91   Terms and Qualifications of Commissioners.
Sec. 2-92   Board's Powers and Duties Regarding Town Police Department.
Sec. 2-93   Appointment, Compensation, Tenure of the Chief of Police.
Sec. 2-94   Powers and Duties of Sworn Police Officers.
Sec. 2-95   Adoption of Rules and Regulations Governing the Police Department.
Sec. 2-96   Application Fee for Police Department Applicants.
Sec. 2-97   Police Department Correspondence.
Sec. 2-98   Law Enforcement Records.
Sec. 2-99   Police Reserves.
Sec. 2-100 through Sec. 2-103 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division IX. Volunteer Fire Department.
Sec. 2-104   Volunteer Fire Department Established
Sec. 2-105   Town Employees Who Act as Volunteer Firefighters.
Sec. 2-106   Logging Procedures.
Sec. 2-107   Volunteer Fire Department Ambulance Service.
Sec. 2-108 through Sec. 2-112 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND OTHER AGENCIES.
   Division I. Miscellaneous Entities.
Sec. 2-113   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 2-114   Dyer Redevelopment Commission.
Sec. 2-115   Dyer Historical Society Established.
Sec. 2-116   Dyer Community Foundation.
Sec. 2-117   Quad-Town Forum.
Sec. 2-118   Dyer Historic Preservation Commission.
Sec. 2-119   Dyer Town Hall Building Corporation.
Sec. 2-120   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 2-121   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 2-122   Volunteer Committees.
Sec. 2-123   Criminal Background Investigations.
Sec. 2-124   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 2-125   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 2-126    Dyer in Bloom Volunteer Committee.
Sec. 2-127   Dyer Summer Fest Committee.
Sec. 2-128   Volunteer Committee on Disabilities.
Sec. 2-129   Reserved for Future Use.
   Division II. Dyer Development Commission.
Sec. 2-130   Dyer Development Commission Created.
Sec. 2-131   Commission Membership.
Sec. 2-132   Commissioners, Disclosure of Interests.
Sec. 2-133   Commissioner's Duty to Investigate Need, Reports.
Sec. 2-134   Powers of Municipality and Commission.
Sec. 2-135   Special Tax, Use of Proceeds, Transfer of Funds.
Sec. 2-136 through Sec. 2-139 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 5. PERSONNEL RULES.
   Division I. Americans With Disabilities (ADA).
Sec. 2-140   Town Policy.
Sec. 2-141   A.D.A. Coordinator.
Sec. 2-142 through Sec. 2-144 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division II. Deferred Compensation.
Sec. 2-145   Deferred Compensation Plan Established.
Sec. 2-146   Role of Clerk-Treasurer.
Sec. 2-147 through Sec. 2-149 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division III. Benefits Under Indiana State Laws.
Sec. 2-150   Workers' Compensation, Occupational Diseases and Employers'
Liability.
Sec. 2-151   Public Employees Retirement Fund (PERF).
Sec. 2-152   Public Employees Retirement Fund (PERF) My Choice: Retirement
Savings Plan.
Sec. 2-153 through Sec. 2-157 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division IV. Family and Medical Leave Act Personnel Policy.
Sec. 2-158   Employee Eligibility.
Sec. 2-159   Definitions.
Sec. 2-160   FMLA Availability.
Sec. 2-161   Notice and Certification Requirements.
Sec. 2-162   Implementation and FMLA Leave Benefits.
Sec. 2-163   Employment Protection/Limitations.
Sec. 2-164   Effective Date.
Sec. 2-165 and Sec. 2-166 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division V. Miscellaneous Regulations.
Sec. 2-167   Town Pay Periods.
Sec. 2-168   Mileage Allowance.
Sec. 2-169   Purchasing Regulations.
Sec. 2-170   Establishing Electronic Reverse Auction Procedures.
Sec. 2-171   Credit Cards.
   Division VI. Code of Standards of Conduct - Federal Funding.
Sec. 2-172   Conduct Code Adopted.
Sec. 2-173   Standards of Conduct.
Sec. 2-174   Conflicts.
Sec. 2-175   Violations.
Sec. 2-176 and Sec. 2-177 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VII. Personnel Policies.
Sec. 2-178   Personnel Policies Included by Reference.
Sec. 2-179   Extraordinary Situations.
ARTICLE 6. FUNDS ESTABLISHED.
Sec. 2-180   Special Non-Park Activities Operating Fund.
Sec. 2-181   Public Safety Income Tax Fund.
Sec. 2-182   Employee Comprehensive Medical Insurance Fund.
Sec. 2-183   Building and/or Remodeling Fund.
Sec. 2-184   Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
Sec. 2-185   Subdivision Professional Distribution.
Sec. 2-186   Debt Service Fund.
Sec. 2-187   Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund.
Sec. 2-188   Solid Waste Disposal Facilities Fund.
Sec. 2-189   Metropolitan Police Pension Fund.
Sec. 2-190   Motor Vehicle Highway Fund (MVH).
Sec. 2-191   Local Road and Street Fund (LRS).
Sec. 2-192   Police Department Incident Report Account.
Sec. 2-193   In Re Forfeiture Fund.
Sec. 2-194   Racketeering Forfeiture Fund.
Sec. 2-195   Federal Equitable Sharing Program Fund.
Sec. 2-196   Cumulative Fire and Police Radio Equipment Fund.
Sec. 2-197   Miscellaneous Funds.
Sec. 2-198   Park and Recreation Department Funds.
Sec. 2-199   Casino Gaming Revenue Fund.
Sec. 2-200   Alphabetical Listing of Funds.
Sec. 2-201   Law Enforcement Aid and Confidential Petty Cash Fund.
Sec. 2-202   Special Town Hall Building Maintenance and Capital Improvement
Non-Reverting Fund.
Sec. 2-203   Partnership for a Drug Free Lake County Fund.
Sec. 2-204   Leaking Underground Storage Tank Soil Remediation Fund.
Sec. 2-205   Dyer Berens-Monaldi Phase II Project Construction Fund.
Sec. 2-206   Amtrak Fund.
Sec. 2-207   Police Department Special Revenue Fund.
Sec. 2-208   Rental Housing Inspection Fund.
Sec. 2-209   Economic Development Income Tax Fund.
Sec. 2-209.1   Rainy Day Fund.
Sec. 2-209.2   Local Option Income Tax Special Distribution Fund.
Sec. 2-209.3   Main Street TIF Fund.
Sec. 2-209.4   Health & Employee Benefit Insurance Non-Reverting Fund.
Sec. 2-209.5   Multi-Peril Insurance Fund.
Sec. 2-209.6   CARES Act Reimbursement Fund.
Sec. 2-209.7   American Rescue Plan Fund.
Sec. 2-209.8   CPR and “Stop the Bleed” Fund.
ARTICLE 7. TOWN MEMBERSHIPS AND AGREEMENTS.
Sec. 2-210   Town Memberships Authorized.
Sec. 2-211   Interlocal Government Agreements and Mutual Aid Agreements.
Sec. 2-212 through Sec. 2-219 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 8. ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
Sec. 2-220   Ordinance Violation Bureau Established.
Sec. 2-221   Schedule of Code Provisions and Violations.
Sec. 2-222   Civil Penalties.
Sec. 2-223   Court Proceedings.
Sec. 2-224 through Sec. 2-229 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 9. TOWN POLICIES.
Sec. 2-230   Uncollectible Accounts Receivable.
Sec. 2-231   Fixed Asset Capitalization Policy.
Sec. 2-232   Bidding Practices and Submission Requirements.
Sec. 2-233   Internal Control Policies.
Sec. 2-234   Negotiation of Payment Plans for Past Due Accounts.
Sec. 2-235 through Sec. 2-249 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 10. TAXATION.
Sec. 2-250   Municipal Motor Vehicle License Excise Wheel Surtax and Municipal
Wheel Tax.
Sec. 2-251 through Sec. 2-259 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 1. THE TOWN CLERK-TREASURER.
Sec. 2-1 Term of Office of Clerk Treasurer. 1
   (a)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is an elected position whose term of office
is for four (4) years, beginning at noon on January 1st after his or her
election and continuing until a successor is elected and qualified.
   (b)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected by the voters of the whole
Town.2
                           
1   I.C., § 36-5-6-3, addresses the Clerk-Treasurer's term in office.
2   I.C., § 36-5-6-4, addresses the election of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Sec. 2-2 Powers3 and Duties4 of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (a)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions, and
take acknowledgments of instruments as required by law.
   (b)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer may perform all duties prescribed by law,
which include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   receive and care for all Town monies, and pay them out upon order
of the Town Council;
      (2)   keep accounts of all Town monies;
      (3)   file monthly reports with the Town Council showing all receipts and
disbursements of the Town Treasury for the preceding month;
      (4)   maintain records which are open for inspection by the Town Council;
      (5)   collect fines resulting from ordinance violations;
      (6)   issue all licenses; and
      (7)   attend all Town Council meetings and maintain a recording of its
proceedings.5
   (c)   The Clerk-Treasurer is both the Town Clerk and Town Fiscal Officer
pursuant to Indiana Code, § 36-5-6-2.
                           
3   I.C., § 36-5-6-5, authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to administer oaths and
sets forth related powers.
4   I.C., § 36-5-2-8, sets forth the Clerk-Treasurers role regarding the Town
Council.
5   I.C., § 36-5-6-6, sets forth the power and duties of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer.
Sec. 2-3 Compensation of Clerk-Treasurer. 6
The compensation for the services of the person holding the office of Clerk-
Treasurer shall be fixed by the Town Council.
                       
6   I.C., § 36-5-3-2, addresses compensation of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Sec. 2-4 Deputies and Employees. 7
   (a)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Dyer, Indiana, is authorized to
appoint a Deputy Clerk-Treasurer to assist her in all of the duties of this
office. The Deputy Clerk-Treasurer shall serve at the pleasure of the Clerk-
Treasurer. (Ord. No. 522, § I, § 2, 9-13-63).
   (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer may appoint the number of deputies and employees
with salaries being approved by the Town Council. Deputies and employees so
hired serve at the pleasure of the Clerk-Treasurer.
                       
7   I.C., § 36-5-6-4, authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to appoint deputies of
employees.
Sec. 2-5 Clerk-Treasurer Authorized to invest and Reinvest Surplus Monies. 8
   (a)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to invest and reinvest surplus
monies from any and all municipal and utility funds, and the Dyer Metropolitan
Police Pension Fund so as to receive interest and returns at the highest
possible rate and under the most favorable circumstances to the Town of Dyer.
(Ord. No. 80-02, § 1, 1-8-80).
   (b)   All such investment of funds is to be for such term as may be agreed
upon from time to time between the Clerk-Treasurer and the participating
depositories, and that the maturity or redemption date not be later than the
time when such funds are required to be available for the purposes as provided
by law; otherwise such investments shall be made so as to have a maturity or
redemption date of one (1) year or less from the date of purchase (Ord. No. 80-
02, § 2, 1-8-80).
   (c)   All such investments shall be in compliance with the public depository
law for the State of Indiana and the interest derived from such investment
shall become a part of the funds invested and not a part of either the General
Fund of the State of Indiana or the General Fund of the Town of Dyer, Indiana.
(Ord. No. 80-02, § 3, 1-8-80).
                       
8   I.C., §§ 5-13-9-1 through 5-13-9-8, address deposit and invest powers.
Sec. 2-6 Clerk-Treasurer Authorized to Make Claim Payments Prior to Town
Council/Board Approval.
   (a)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Dyer, subject to division (b)
herein, is authorized to make payments in advance of Town Council, Board or
Commission approval for the following types of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from:
         (a)   the United States government; or
         (b)   an agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government;
         (c)   the government of the State of Indiana; or
         (d)   an agency or department or branch of the government of the State
of Indiana, including a body politic and corporate of the state.
      (2)   License fees or permit fees.
      (3)   Insurance premiums.
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges.
      (5)   Federal grant programs if:
         (a)   advance funding is not prohibited; and
         (b)   the contracting party provides sufficient security for the
amount advanced.
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute.
      (7)   Maintenance agreements or service agreements.
      (8)   Lease agreements or rental agreements.
      (9)   Principal and interest payments on bonds.
      (10) Payroll.
      (11) State and federal taxes.
      (12)   The following additional expenses outlined in this section:
         (a)   expenses incurred and identified for approved community events;
         (b)   refunds, which are in consequence of a class or program
cancellation or for event or program deposits as may be made by the parks and
recreation department;
         (c)   vendor payments in support of recreation, or special events
programs;
         (d)   payment of the funeral benefits outlined in Indiana Code § 36-8-
6-9.8(4) to heirs or estates of deceased retired members of the metropolitan
police department;
         (e)   payments to such vendors or service providers, public or
private, which have provided services or goods to the municipality and for
which a delay of payment incurs penalties or late payment charges, including
credit card payments;
         (f)   payments for the purchase of real estate; provided, that the
purchase and price has been duly authorized and approved by action of the
proper council, board or commission, and the purchase was executed in
compliance with Indiana Code §§ 33-24, 36-1-10.5, 36-7, 36-9 or 36-10 and other
relevant laws;
         (g)   expenditures for transfers or temporary loans in consequence of
cash flow needs; provided, that the transfer or temporary loan has been duly
authorized and approved by action of the proper council, board or commission;
         (h)   payments made for the purchase of road salt, or other supplies,
where a vendor requires payment to be remitted at time of delivery, provided
the proper department head determines such payment to be in the interest of
public safety;
         (i)   payments as may be identified in an ordinance.
   (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall make said payments on behalf of the Town
Council, but the Clerk-Treasurer shall not make said payments on behalf of any
Board or Commission having jurisdiction over allowance of the claim until
authorized to do so in writing by said Board or Commission.
   (c)   Each payment of expenses under this ordinance must be supported by a
fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the fiscal officer.
   (d)   The Town Council or the Board or Commission having jurisdiction over
the allowance of the claim shall review and allow the claim at the body's next
regular meeting following the preapproved payment of the expense. (Ord. No. 87-
32, 8-9-87; Ord. No. 95-27, 11-14-95; Ord. No. 2016-09, 5-12-16).
Sec. 2-7 Clerk-Treasurer Authorized to Pay Continuing Expenses and Obligations.
The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to pay the following continuing expenses and
obligations of the Town previously approved by the Town Council without the
necessity if processing claims for payment of each such expense:
   1.   Wages, social security, payroll taxes, pension, postage, scavenger
fees, utility obligations, and other payroll related expenses, authorized and
payable pursuant to the wage and salary ordinance and amendments thereto.
   2.   Insurance premiums on insurance contracts entered into by the Town
Council.
   3.   Rental payments due on leases executed by the Dyer Town Council. (Ord.
No. 84-39, 9-11-84).
Sec. 2-8 Clerk-Treasurer Authorized to Verify Information.
The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Dyer is designated the officer of the Town
who will be responsible for providing information to the Public Employees
Retirement Fund on creditable service for an employee of the Town of Dyer.
(Ord. No. 82-41, 11-9-82).
Sec. 2-9 Clerk-Treasurer's Role Regarding Mail.
   (a)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Dyer, or Deputy Clerk-Treasurer, in
the case of her absence, shall receive all incoming correspondence addressed to
the Clerk-Treasurer, Clerk-Treasurer's office, Sewer and Water Utility Bills
and all correspondence addressed simply to the "Town of Dyer", without a
specific individual or department specified.
   (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer, or Deputy Clerk-Treasurer, shall date, open,
document and distribute/handle all such mail.
   (c)   If mail is addressed to the "Town of Dyer", the original shall be
retained by the Clerk-Treasurer and a copy distributed to the Town Council.
(Res. No. 82-8, § 1, 3-9-82).
Sec. 2-10 Clerk-Treasurer's Role Regarding Maintaining Documents.
The Clerk-Treasurer, as the legal keeper of all records of the Town of Dyer,
shall be provided all original documents including, but not limited to
ordinances, resolutions contracts, grants, consultant agreements, reports,
studies, and shall also be provided with a copy of all correspondence
pertaining to financial, budgetary, treasury, debt management, purchasing, and
personnel matters. All of the above shall be retained in the Office of the
Clerk-Treasurer. (Res. No. 82-8, § 4, 3-9-82).
Sec. 2-11 Clerk-Treasurer to Oversee Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (a)   The Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the Violations
Clerk and shall be Administrator of the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer and her staff, as her agents, shall accept written
appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations, and payment of civil
penalties in the amount and the violation set forth in
Article 13 of Chapter 6 of this Code. (Ord. No. 89-38, § 1, 10-10-89)
Sec. 2-12 through Sec. 2-22 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. THE TOWN MANAGER.9
                           
9   I.C., §§ 36-5-5-1 through 36-5-5-9, address the Town Manager.
Sec. 2-20 through Sec. 2-22 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. DEPARTMENTS OF THE TOWN.
Division I. In General.
Sec. 2-23 Town Departments. 10
The following departments are recognized:
   1.   Department of Parks and Recreation.
      (See Sec. 2-42 through Sec. 2-45)
   2.   Department of Public Works.
      (See Sec. 2-55 through Sec. 2-58)
   3.   Department of Redevelopment.
      (See Sec. 2-61 through Sec. 2-63)
   4.   Department of Storm Water Management.
      (See Sec. 2-68 through Sec. 2-71)
   5.   Department of Waterworks.
      (See Sec. 2-75 through Sec. 2-78)
   6.   Volunteer Fire Department.
      (See Sec. 2-104 and 2-105)
   7.   Dyer Development Department.
      (See p. 41, footnote 24 and Sec. 2-130, et seq.)
Each department shall carry out such duties assigned to it by applicable State
Law and duties assigned to it by the Town Council to effectively carry out the
needs and services of the Town.
                           
10   I.C., § 36-1-3-2, addresses the power to carry out the effective operation
of government as to local affairs.
Sec. 2-24 Organizational Charts.
The organizational charts depicted on the following page(s) set forth the
divisions of town government.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b44663335d846b22bd032dfe090aca6d0fba3e16/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2683.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b44663335d846b22bd032dfe090aca6d0fba3e16/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2685.png]
 
Sec. 2-25 through Sec. 2-41 Reserved for Future Use.
Division II. Department of Parks and Recreation.11
                          
11   I.C., § 36-10-3-3, addresses the Department of Parks and Recreation.
Sec. 2-42 Department of Parks and Recreation Established.
It is in the best interest of the Town of Dyer to create a Department of Parks
and Recreation to manage and supervise the parks and recreation within the Town
of Dyer. (Ord. No. 83-16, Preamble, 4-12-83)
Sec. 2-43 Dyer Park and Recreation Board. 12
   (a)    There is created within the Town of Dyer, a Department of Parks and
Recreation to be known and identified as the Dyer Park and Recreation Board.
The Dyer Park and Recreation Board shall consist of four (4) members to be
appointed by the Town Council of the Town of Dyer, pursuant to I.C. § 36-10-3-
4, as amended. In addition to those members appointed by the Town Council, the
Dyer Park and Recreation Board may also consist of one (1) or two (2) ex
officio members, those being:
      (1)   a member:
         (i)   of the governing body of the school corporation selected by that
body; or
         (ii)   designated by the governing body of the library district
selected by that body; or
         (iii)   both (i) and (ii).
   (b)   All books, papers, documents and other property of the former park
and/or recreation authority shall be transferred to and become the property of
the Board. (Ord. No. 83-16, § 1, 4-12-83; Am. Ord. No. 99-15, § 1, 7-13-99)
                          
12   I.C., § 36-10-3-4, addresses Board Membership.
Sec. 2-44 Power and Duties of the Board. 13
   (a)   The members of the Dyer Park and Recreation Board shall be appointed
pursuant to the Indiana Park and Recreation Law.
   (b)   The Board shall have the duties, powers, and authority set forth in
the Indiana Park and Recreation Law, Indiana Code, Section 36-10-3-1 et seq.
                          
13   I.C., § 36-10-3-11, addresses powers of the Board.
Sec. 2-45 Park Rules and Regulations.
Chapter 5 of this Code sets for specific rules and regulations governing parks
and recreational activities in the Town of Dyer.
Sec. 2-46 Peer-to-Peer Payment Apps Accepted.
   (a)   The Parks Department is authorized to accept payments through peer-to-
peer (P2P) apps, effective immediately.
   (b)   All internal controls the town currently applies to transactions made
by credit card apply to transactions made through P2P apps; and
   (c)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to determine which P2P app the Parks
Department will accept based on security, availability, convenience, cost-
effectiveness, and any other lawful and relevant consideration.
(Ord. 2021-08, 3-11-21)
Sec. 2-47 through Sec. 2-54 Reserved for Future Use.
Division III. Department of Public Works.14
                          
14   I.C., § 36-1-2-24, defines the “Works Board” as the Town Council.
Sec. 2-55 Department of Public Works Created.
There shall be a Department of Public Works in the Town of Dyer, Lake County,
Indiana that oversees streets, sanitation, water, storm sewers and sanitary
sewers.
Sec. 2-56 Director and Duties.
The Department shall be headed by a Director of Public Works and such other
personnel deemed necessary for the efficient and effective operation of the
department.
Sec. 2-57 Public Works Regulations.
Rules and regulations governing public works are set forth in
Chapter 7 of this Code.
Sec. 2-58 Department of Public Works Non-Smoking Policy.
Smoking is prohibited from all Public Works buildings with the exception of the
Public Works office. (Res. No. 93-11, 5-11-93)
Sec. 2-59 and Sec. 2-60 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IV. Department of Redevelopment.15
                        
15   I.C., § 36-7-14, et seq., addresses redevelopment powers.
Sec. 2-61 Department of Redevelopment Established.
The Town Council establishes the Department of Redevelopment of the Town of
Dyer. (Ord. No. 92-8, § 1, 2-10-92).
Sec. 2-62 Redevelopment District.
   (a)   Pursuant to the Act all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the Town will be a taxing district to be known as the
Redevelopment District of the Town of Dyer for the purpose of levying and
collecting special benefit taxes for redevelopment purposes as provided in the
Act.
   (b)   The Town Council finds and determines that all of the taxable property
within this special taxing district will be considered to be benefitted by the
redevelopment projects carried out under the Act to the extent of the special
taxes levied under the Act. (Ord. No. 92-8, § 2, 2-10-92).
Sec. 2-63 Terms of the Redevelopment Commissioners.
The original Redevelopment Commissioners appointed shall serve until the first
day of January in the second year after their appoint; thereafter, each
Commissioner shall serve for one (1) year from the first day of January until
his/her successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. No. 92-8, § 3, 2-10-92)
Sec. 2-64 through Sec. 2-67 Reserved for Future Use.
Division V. Department of Storm Water Management.16
                        
16   I.C., § 8-1.5.5, et seq., addresses storm water management.
Sec. 2-68 Department of Storm Water Management Created.
Pursuant to Indiana Code, § 8-1.5-5 et seq., a Department of Storm Water
Management is created for the purpose of providing for the collection, disposal
and drainage of storm and surface water and the relieving of sanitary sewers of
such water in the district. (Ord. No. 91-5, § 2, 2-12-91)
Sec. 2-69 Territory Included Within District.
The territory to be included initially in the District shall be all of that
territory included at any time within the corporate limits of the Town of Dyer,
and any territory, addition, or platted subdivision or unplatted lands lying
outside the corporate limits of the Town of Dyer, Indiana, which have been
taken into or which have been connected with the public sewer system of the
Town of Dyer, Indiana, in accordance with the provisions of any prior act, and
the drainage of which discharge is into or through the storm sewer System of
the Town of Dyer, Indiana. (Ord. No. 91-5, § 3, 2-12-91)
Sec. 2-70 Board of Storm Water Management.
   (a)   The Board shall consist of three (3) Directors to be appointed by the
Town Council, not more than two (2) of whom may be of the same political party.
The term of the first Director shall end on December 31, 1991; the term of the
second Director shall end on December 31, 1992; and the term of the third
Director shall end on December 31, 1993. Thereafter all terms will be for a
period of three (3) year.
   (b)   The members of the Board shall be compensated for their services as
set forth annually in the salary ordinance for the Town of Dyer.
   (c)   Should a vacancy occur on the Board, that vacancy shall be filled by
the Town Council within sixty (60) days from the date the vacancy occurred. The
Town Council shall appoint one of its own members to fill the vacancy during
any interim period of time The Town Council may by simple majority vote to
remove a Director at any time when, in the judgement of the Town Council, it is
for the best interest of the Department of Storm Water Management. (Ord. No.
91-5, § 4, 2-12-91)
Sec. 2-71 Special Taxing District.
Pursuant to Indiana Code, § 8-1.5-5, there is created a special taxing district
which shall include all of the territory within the corporate boundaries of the
Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, as identified and set out hereinabove in
Sec. 2-65. (Ord. No. 91-5, § 5, 2-12-91).
Sec. 2-72 through Sec. 2-74 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VI. Department of Waterworks.17
                        
17   I.C., § 8-1.5-4, addresses the operation of a waterworks facility.
Sec. 2-75 Department of Waterworks Created.
There is created a Department of Waterworks to be known as the Town of Dyer
Department of Waterworks ("the Department"). (Ord. No. 91-17, § 2, 7-9-91).
Sec. 2-76 Board of Directors.
   (a)   The Department shall be governed by a body to be known as the Board of
Directors of the Town of Dyer Department of Waterworks (the "Board"). The Board
shall consist of three (3) Directors (the "Directors") who shall be appointed
by the President of the Town Council. Not more than two (2) Directors may be of
the same political party.
   (b)   The term of the first Director shall end on December 31, 1992; the
term of the second Director shall end on December 31, 1993; and the term of the
third Director shall end on December 31, 1994. Thereafter all terms will be for
a period of four (4) years.
   (c)   The members of the Board shall be compensated for their services set
forth annually in the salary ordinance for the Town of Dyer. Should a vacancy
occur on the Board, that vacancy shall be filled by a majority of the Town
Council within sixty (60) days from the date the vacancy occurred.
   (d)   Each Director shall give a bond, which shall be fixed by the Clerk-
Treasurer of the Town of Dyer and subject to the Clerk-Treasurer's approval.
   (e)   The majority of the Town Council may remove a Director at any time
when, in the Council's judgment, it is for the best interest of the Waterworks.
(Ord. No. 91-17, § 2, 7-9-91)
Sec. 2-77 Powers and Duties.
The Board created herein shale have all of the powers and duties prescribed by
Indiana Code, §§ 8-1.5-3-4 and 8-1.5-4-4 as they exist on the date of passage
of Ordinance No. 91-17 and as amended hereafter. (Ord. No. 91-17, § 4, 7-9-91).
Sec. 2-78 Waterworks Regulations.
Rules and regulations governing the Waterworks are set forth in
Chapter 9 of this Code.
Sec. 2-79 through Sec. 2-81 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VII. Other Support Services.
Sec. 2-82 Engineering Services.
A Town Engineer or consulting engineering services may be retained by the Town
to perform such duties and responsibilities established by the Town Council.
Sec. 2-83 Legal Services. 18
A Town Attorney or an attorney hired on a contractual basis may be retained by
the Town to perform such duties and responsibilities established by the Town
Council.
                        
18   I.C., § 36-4-6-24, authorizes the Town Council to hire or contract
attorney(s).
Sec. 2-84 through Sec. 2-89 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VIII. Safety Board.
Sec. 2-90 Commissioners.
   (a)   The Town of Dyer has a Safety Board consisting of five (5)
Commissioners.
   (b)   To qualify as a Commissioner, a person must be (1) at least eighteen
(18) years old; (2) of good moral character as determined by the Town Council;
and (3) a legal resident of Dyer. The Town Council may remove a Commissioner
for any cause that the Town Council considers sufficient.
   (c)   Each Commissioner is appointed by the Town Council to a three-year
term beginning on January 1 of the first year and ending on December 31 of the
third year. For the initial Commissioners, all terms of the former Dyer
Metropolitan Police Commission carry over into the Safety Board, and all
subsequent terms of Safety Board Commissioners must be staggered following that
carryover.
   (d)   The Safety Board must elect one of its members as chairman of the
Safety Board, who holds that office as prescribed by the rules of the Board
adopted under I.C. 36-8-3-3.
   (e)   A majority of the Commissioners constitutes a quorum to transact
business. The Safety Board must adopt rules governing procedure, including for
holding regular and special meetings. All provisions of state law governing
public meetings and records apply to Safety Board proceedings.
   (f)   The Commissioners may act only as a board. No individual member may
bind the Safety Board or the Town except through a resolution adopted by the
Board as a whole.
(Ord. No. 2023-08, 2-15- 23).
Sec. 2-91 Appointment and Compensation of Commissioners.
   (a)   The appointment, term, oath, and bond of the Commissioners are as
prescribed by I.C. 36-8-9-3.
   (b)   Compensation of Commissioners is determined by the Town Council in the
Town's Annual Salary Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2023-08, 2- 15-23).
Sec. 2-92 Safety Board Powers and Duties.
   (a)   The Safety Board has every power and responsibility in policymaking,
management, oversight, and control of the Dyer Police and Fire Departments, and
as applicable to Emergency Medical Services, subject to state law.
   (b)   Subject to qualifications for employment adopted by the Town Council,
the Safety Board may appoint the following:
      (1)   Officers and other employees of the Police Department; and
      (2)   Members and other employees of the Fire Department.
   (c)   The Board of Safety has control over all property belonging to the
Police Department and Fire Department, including Town-owned emergency medical
service items, and may purchase equipment and supplies and contract services
for each department.
   (d)   The Safety Board may adopt general and specific orders to the Police
and Fire Departments, to be carried out through the administration of each
department, and, subject to the budget and appropriation authority of the Town
Council, may recommend salaries and wage rates to the Town Council.
(Ord. No. 2023-08, 2-15-23)
Sec. 2-93 Appointment, Compensation, Tenure of the Chief of Police and Fire
Chief.
   (a)   The Town Council has the authority to appoint a Chief of Police
("Police Chief") and a Fire Chief and must fix their compensation annually by
Ordinance adopted under I.C. 36-8-3-3.
   (b)   The Police Chief has exclusive control over the Police Department, and
the Fire Chief has exclusive control over the Fire Department, subject to the
rules and orders of the Safety Board.
   (c)   In a declared emergency, the Police Chief and Fire Chief are
subordinate to the President of the Dyer Town Council, or person or persons
designated by the Town Council, whose orders the chiefs must obey,
notwithstanding any law or rule to the contrary.
(Ord. No. 2023-08, 2-15-23)
Sec. 2-94 Powers and Duties of Sworn Police Officers.
   All sworn police officers have the powers and duties as set forth in I.C.
36-8-3-6.
(Ord. No. 2023-08, 2-15-23)
Sec. 2-95 Police Officer and Firefighter Discipline.
   (a)   The Safety Board has the authority to adopt rules and regulations
governing the Police Department and the Fire Department and the conduct of
their members.
   (b)   A member of the Police Department or the Fire Department holds office
or grade until dismissed by the Safety Board. A member of either department may
be disciplined by demotion, dismissal, reprimand, forfeiture, or suspension
upon either:
      (1)   Conviction in any court of any crime; or
      (2)   A finding and decision of the Board of Safety that the member has
been or is guilty of:
         a.   Neglect of duty;
         b.   Violation of rules;
         c.   Neglect or disobedience of an order;
         d.   Incapacity;
         e.   Absence without leave;
         f.   Immoral conduct;
         g.   Conduct injurious to the public peace or welfare;
         h.   Conduct unbecoming an officer; or
         i.   Another breach of discipline.
   In appointing, disciplining, or dismissing a member of any department under
its authority, the Safety Board may not consider any political affiliation of
the member or any reason other than the fitness or unfitness of the member,
under the applicable rules, regulations, policies and procedures of each
department.
   If a member is suspended or placed on administrative leave under this
subsection, the member is entitled to all allowances for insurance benefits to
which the member was entitled before being suspended or placed on
administrative leave. In addition, the Safety Board may provide the member's
allowances for any other fringe benefits to which the member was entitled
before being suspended or placed on administrative leave.
   (c)   Before a member of the Police Department or Fire Department may be
suspended for more than five (5) days without pay, demoted, or dismissed, the
Safety Board must offer the member an opportunity for a hearing. The member
must request the hearing in writing not more than five (5) days after receiving
the notice of the suspension, demotion, or dismissal.
   The Safety Board must provide notice of the hearing either by service upon
the member in person or by a copy left at the member's last usual place of
residence at least fourteen (14) days before the date set for the hearing. The
hearing conducted under this subsection must occur no more than thirty (30)
days after receipt of the member's request unless the parties mutually agree to
a later date. The notice must state:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The charges against the member;
      (3)   The specific conduct that comprises the charges;
      (4)   That the member is entitled to be represented by counsel;
      (5)   That the member is entitled to call and cross-examine witnesses;
      (6)   That the member is entitled to require the production of evidence;
and
      (7)   That the member is entitled to have subpoenas issued, served, and
executed in Lake County, Indiana.
      A disciplinary hearing under this subsection must occur as prescribed by
the rules adopted by the Safety Board. All appeals are governed by I.C. 36-8-3-
4 and other applicable state law.
(Ord. No. 2023-08, 2-15-23)
Sec. 2-96 Police and Fire Department Correspondence.
   The Safety Board must receive, date, document, and distribute all
correspondence addressed to it, to the Metropolitan Police Commission, the
Police Department, the Police Chief, the Fire Department, or the Fire Chief.
However, nothing in this Section prohibits Police or Fire Department staff from
receiving and opening correspondence as part of conducting the daily affairs of
the department.
(Ord. No. 2023-08, 2-15-23)
Sec. 2-97 Repeal of Conflicting Laws.
   All existing Town Code provisions and ordinances in conflict with the
provisions of the Ordinance, are specifically repealed.
(Ord. No. 2023-08, 2-15-23)
Sec. 2-98 Severability.
   If any part of this Division is held invalid or unenforceable by a court of
competent jurisdiction, then that holding does not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Division.
(Ord. No. 2023-08, 2-15-23)
Sec. 2-99 Savings.
   All Police and Fire Department rules, regulations, and orders adopted before
the enactment of this Ordinance remain in effect to the extent that they do not
conflict with this Division or with state law.
(Ord. No. 2023-08, 2-15-23)
Sec. 2-100 through 2-103 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IX. Volunteer Fire Department.
Sec. 2-104 Volunteer Fire Department Established.
The Town of Dyer has established a Volunteer Fire Department pursuant to
Indiana Law, whose members are compensated by the Town of Dyer for responding
to fire calls. (Ord. No. 89-8, 2-14-89)
Sec. 2-105 Town Employees Who Act as Volunteer Firefighters.
Employees of the Town of Dyer who are also volunteer firefighters shall not be
paid compensation by the Dyer Volunteer Fire Department for responding to calls
during the employee's regular hours of employment. The employee of the Town who
responds to a fire call during his or her regular hours of employment shall be
considered an employee of the Dyer Volunteer Fire Department during the period
of response for purposes of worker's compensation insurance, and for all other
purposes, except that he or she shall not be paid as a volunteer fireman. (Ord.
No. 89-8, § 1, 2-14-89)
Sec. 2-106 Logging Procedures.
The time the initial incident report is received and logged by the Dyer Police
Department shall determine if the employee is employed by the Town during his
regular hours of employment and subject to the provisions of this Ordinance.
This determination shall be conclusive regardless of the length of time
expended to clear the fire call. (Ord. No. 89-8, 2, 2-14-89)
Sec. 2-107 Volunteer Fire Department Ambulance Service.
   (a)    There is hereby established the Town of Dyer Volunteer Fire
Department Emergency Ambulance Service. Further, the duties and
responsibilities for the Town Volunteer Fire Department Emergency Ambulance
Service shall be assigned and delegated to the Town of Dyer Volunteer Fire
Department.
   (b)   Prompt Ambulance Service, Inc., presently conducts the billing
services, free of charge, on behalf of, and for the benefit of, the Town
Volunteer Fire Department Ambulance Service and the Town, and shall hereby be
authorized to continue to conduct same. Said billing service shall continue to
bill and collect all charges made for emergency medical and ambulance services
rendered by the Town of Dyer Volunteer Fire Department Emergency Ambulance
Service, consistent with the rules and regulations of the State of Indiana
Board of Accounts. One-third (1/3) of all monies so collected shall be
deposited into the Town CCD Fund, which shall include the line item, “Ambulance
Replacement.” In the event that an amount collected for ambulance services is
not evenly divisible by three (3), then the amount deposited into the CCD Fund
shall be rounded up to the next nearest whole dollar amount. The remaining two-
thirds (2/3) of all monies so collected shall be deposited into an “Ambulance
Budget,” which is to be established within the Town General Fund. Said
Ambulance Budget shall contain the following line items: 1) Ambulance Insurance
and 2) Ambulance Supplies and Equipment.
   (c)   The rates charged by the Town of Dyer, for ambulance services provided
by the Town of Dyer Emergency Ambulance Service shall be in accordance with and
equal to the rates charged for said services by Prompt Ambulance Service, Inc.,
as its billing service, and shall commence upon the passage and adoption of
this Ordinance 2001-14.
   (d)   The Town of Dyer Volunteer Fire Department Emergency Ambulance Service
shall provide the following emergency ambulance services:
      1.   Basic Life Support (BLS) ambulance transport services to persons who
are residents of the Town of Dyer;
      2.   Basic Life Support (BLS) ambulance transport services to persons who
do not reside within the Town of Dyer;
      3.   Ambulance non-transport services, which shall be defined as any
situation in which the ambulance is dispatched to a specific location and the
patient receives treatment at the scene, but transport is not required or the
patient refuses to be transported;
      4.   The Town of Dyer Volunteer Fire Department Emergency Ambulance
Service shall provide only emergency transport services, and shall not provide
any non-emergency transport services.
   (e)   The policy of the Town of Dyer shall be that when the Town of Dyer
Volunteer Fire Department Emergency Ambulance Service renders services to
persons, such persons shall be transported only to St. Margaret Mercy Hospital
in Dyer, Indiana or Munster Community Hospital in Munster, Indiana. In the
event of a life-threatening situation, the Emergency Medical Technician in
charge may transport the patient to a hospital not listed above.
   (f)   The Town of Dyer Volunteer Fire Department Emergency Ambulance Service
shall not use its equipment for the transportation of deceased persons. Patient
transfers to or from any hospital or other heath care facility shall not be
rendered by the Town of Dyer Volunteer Fire Department Emergency Ambulance
Service.
   (g)   Any conscious person eighteen (18) years of age or older shall have
the right to refuse ambulance service, however, any such person refusing
ambulance service shall sign a “refusal of service form.” In the event that a
person refuses said service and also refuses to sign a “refusal of service
form,” said form shall be signed on behalf of said person by any law
enforcement officer present at the time said refusal is made. If a law
enforcement officer is not available at the scene, the refusal form may be
signed by a member of the Dyer Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. No. 2001-14, §§ 1 - 7, 8-21-01)
Sec. 2-108 through Sec. 2-112 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND OTHER AGENCIES.
Division 1. Miscellaneous Entities.
Sec. 2-113 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 2-114 Dyer Redevelopment Commission.
The Department will be controlled by a Board of five (5) members known as the
Dyer Redevelopment Commission. Three (3) of the members shall be appointed by
the Municipal Executive, the President of the Town Council, and two (2) members
shall be appointed by the Town Council. (Ord. No. 92-8, § 1, 2-10-92)
Sec. 2-115 Dyer Historical Society Established.
The Dyer Historical Society is created and established in the Town of Dyer,
Lake County, Indiana. (Res. No. 84-4, 2-14-84)
Sec. 2-116 Dyer Community Foundation.
   (a)   Membership. Effective January 1, 2010, the membership of the Town of
Dyer Community Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the "Foundation") shall
consist of eleven (11) members who shall be residents of the Town of Dyer. The
Town Council shall appoint all members of the Foundation. Each appointment
shall be for a three (3)-year term. All members of the Foundation shall be
voting members and their positions shall be non-political.
   (b)   Organization and Structure. The Foundation shall meet on a monthly
basis beginning the month after the organizational meeting of the Town Council
held in January of each calendar year. At its first monthly meeting, the
Foundation shall elect one (1) of its voting members to serve in each of the
following positions:
      1.   President;
      2.   Vice President;
      3.   Recording Secretary; and
      4.   Treasurer.
The voting members elected to each of the above-described positions shall serve
from the date of their election until election and qualification of their
respective successors.
The Foundation is authorized to adopt additional rules and regulations, as are
reasonable, appropriate and necessary for the conduct of the Foundation's
business and affairs. The Foundation shall be generally governed by the latest
edition of "Robert's Rules of Order.''
The Foundation shall hold regular and special meetings at such times as it may
determine upon proper notice as it may fix, either by resolution on in
accordance with the provisions of these rules and regulations, as adopted, and
consistent with all applicable state and local laws or ordinances.
   (c)   Duties. The Foundation is charged with organizing, coordinating and
assisting in raising gifts and donations and determining the use of the same
for the benefit of the residents of the Town of Dyer.
   (d)   Reports. The Foundation shall prepare and submit to the Town Council
for review, minutes of its regular and special meetings. In addition, the Town
Council may request preparation of additional reports.
   (e)   Disposition of Funds. The Foundation may establish such accounts as it
deems necessary to receive, invest, and disburse funds for and on behalf of the
Foundation. The Foundation may also establish an operating account to pay for
expenses incurred as a result of the activities of the Foundation. Funds
received by the Foundation may be deposited with the Legacy Foundation for use
in accordance with the Endowment Agreement between the Town of Dyer and the
Legacy Foundation, if so determined by the Town of Dyer Community Foundation.
All investment and disbursement of funds received by the Foundation shall be
made with the approval of the Foundation.
   (f)   Applicable Law. The Foundation shall comply with all applicable
federal, state and local laws and ordinances, including, but not limited to,
the provisions of the Indiana Code commonly known as the "Indiana Open Door
Law" and the "Indiana Access to Public Information and Records" laws, and shall
record and publish minutes of its meetings.
   (g)   No Compensation For Services. The members of the Foundation shall not
receive compensation for their service, but shall be reimbursed for authorized
reasonable expenses actually incurred or paid. (Res. No. 2009-19, 11-18-09)
Sec. 2-117 Quad-Town Forum.
   (a)   The Quad-Town Forum is established to encourage economic strength and
general development within the Quad-Town area. It includes the towns of Dyer,
Schererville, St. John and Highland.
   (b)   The Town Council of the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, shall take
all appropriate and legal measures to enter into a Joint Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement with the Towns of Highland, St. John and Schererville, to purchase
and utilize supplies, equipment and services for the mutual benefit of the four
(4) participating communities, at shared costs. (Res. No. 94-2, § 1, 1-11-94)
   (c)   The President of the Town Council is authorized and permitted to enter
into a Joint Interlocal Cooperation Agreement for the purchase and utilization
of equipment, supplies and services for the mutual benefit of the Towns of
Dyer, Highland, Schererville and St. John, at shared costs, pursuant to the
applicable provisions of Indiana Code, § 36-1-7-1, et seq., as amended from
time to time; further, the Town Clerk- Treasurer is authorized to attest the
execution of said agreement by the President of the Town Council. (Res. No. 94-
2, § 2, 1-11- 94)
   (d)   A copy of the proposed Joint Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between
the Towns of Dyer, Highland, Schererville and St. John shall be kept on file in
the Office of the Clerk- Treasurer, and shall be available for public
inspection during regular business hours. (Res. No. 94-2, § 3, 1-11-94)
Sec. 2-118 Dyer Historic Preservation Commission.
   (a)   The Dyer Preservation Commission is reconstituted under I.C. 36-7-11-
4.
   (b)   Under I.C. 36-7-11-4(a), the Commission consists of five (5) members
selected and serving according to the terms of that statute. Four (4) shall
serve as regular members, while a fifth will be a member of the Town Council.
   (c)   The Commission should include at least one architect and at least one
member of the Dyer Historical Society, but need not include such membership if
no applicants with those qualifications express interest in serving on the
Commission.
   (d)   The Commission has all powers and duties described in I.C. 36-7-11.
(Ord. No. 2021-14, 8-12-21; Ord. No. 2021-31, 11-10-21; Ord. No. 2022-05, 4-14-
22)
Sec. 2-119 Dyer Town Hall Building Corporation. 22
   (a)   It is determined to be proper and in the public interest to approve
the incorporation of the non-profit corporation known and designated as the
Dyer Town Hall Building Corporation for the purpose of financing, constructing,
and equipping a Town Hall and Police Station facility to be leased to the Town
of Dyer. (Ord. No. 86-50, § 1, 11-11-86)
   (b)   The Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of Dyer Town Hall Building
Corporation, presented to the Town Council are approved. (Ord. No. 86-50, § 2,
11-11-86)
   (c)   Providing for the financing, construction, and equipping of a Town
Hall and Police Station facility by the Dyer Town Hall Building Corporation is
in the public interest of the citizens of the Town of Dyer, Indiana, and it is
a proper public purpose for which Town Council agrees to cooperate with the
Dyer Town Hall Building Corporation and to assist it in fulfilling the
requirements of all agencies of the federal, state, city, and town governments.
(Ord. No. 86-50, § 3, 11-11-86)
   (d)   Upon the Dyer Town Hall Building Corporation being duly organized to
conduct business, it may issue, sell, and deliver its bonds, pursuant to the
applicable laws of the State of Indiana, may encumber any real property or
equipment acquired by it for the purpose of financing the construction and
equipping of a Town Hall and Police Station facility or facilities and may
enter into contracts for the sale of the bonds and the construction and
acquisition of a fully equipped Town Hall and Police Station facility or
facilities. (Ord. No. 86-50, § 7, 11-11-86)
Sec. 2-120 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 2-121 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 2-122 Volunteer Committees.
   (a)   The Town authorizes the establishment of Volunteer Committees to
coordinate volunteer efforts that benefit the Town.
   (b)   Each Volunteer Committee must be created by and exists under the
supervision of an existing non-advisory Board or Commission of the Town.
   (c)   Each Volunteer Committee must be established or disestablished
according to the following procedure:
      1.   Any non-advisory Board or Commission may by resolution recommend the
establishment of a Volunteer Committee under its supervision;
      2.   The recommending resolution must: (1) assign the Volunteer Committee
a name; (2) specify all purposes for which the Volunteer Committee is
organized; (3) specify the number and terms of all members of the Volunteer
Committee; and (4) if desired, provide an expiration date for the Volunteer
Committee;
      3.   The Town Council must consider the resolution of the recommending
Board or Commission no later than at its next regular meeting;
      4.   Approval of the Town Council by ordinance is necessary to establish
the Volunteer Committee recommended, but failure of the Council to act upon the
recommending resolution within the time provided in this Section constitutes
approval;
      5.   The Town Council may establish a Volunteer Committee with
modifications to the recommending resolution; and
      6.   For a Volunteer Committee without an expiration date, the process
for disestablishing the Committee is the same as for establishing it.
   (d)   The following provisions govern the operation of Volunteer Committees:
      1.   All members of each Volunteer Committee are appointed by the
supervising Board or Commission;
      2.   Members of a Volunteer Committee serve without pay;
      3.   All Volunteer Committees are considered appendages of Town
government, and as such are subject to all statutes, regulations, and
ordinances governing Town government;
      4.   No more than one Board or Commission may exercise authority over a
Volunteer Committee at any time, but the Town Council by ordinance may transfer
a Volunteer Committee from the authority of one Board or Commission to another;
and
      5.   A Board or Commission must require periodic written accountings and
reports from each Volunteer Committee under its authority, which must occur no
less than semi-annually.
(Ord. No. 2022-06, §§1 - 4, 3-10-22)
Sec. 2-123 Criminal Background Investigations.
   (a)   Limited Criminal Background Investigations Required. Any person who is
a Public Official in the Town of Dyer shall be required to submit to a limited
criminal background investigation as a condition of appointment to any Town
Board and/or Commission pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 5-2-5-5(a), as
amended from time to time.
   (b)   “Public Official” Defined. “Public Official” shall mean any person who
is appointed to any Town Board or Commission including, but not limited to, the
Redevelopment Commission, the Sanitary Board, the Board of Stormwater
Management, the Park Board, the Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals
and the Recycling Committee. This definition specifically exempts persons who
are appointed to Town Boards and/or Commissions who are also state, county or
town elected officials. The term "Public Official" shall, at all times, be
construed consistent with the provisions and definitions of I.C. 5-2-5-5, et.
seq., as amended from time to time.
   (c)   Purpose. As a unit of local government and a municipal employer, the
Town of Dyer strives to provide a safe, comfortable and efficient work
environment for its employees to facilitate achievement of the Town's public
service missions. As a municipality, the Town of Dyer is charged with the
responsibility of implementing necessary, advisable and appropriate policies to
protect the Town's employees, elected officials and appointees, as well as the
residents of the Town of Dyer from workplace violence, theft of Town property,
misuse and/or abuse of Town equipment and resources, to protect and preserve
the integrity of the Town's Boards and Commissions, to protect the persons
serving upon said Town Boards and Commissions and to foster a favorable and
supportive public perception of how the Town carries out its public service
missions through those Town Boards and Commissions. The purpose of requiring
public officials to submit to a limited criminal background investigation is
preventative in nature and shall be conducted for the sole purpose of
protecting all Town employees, officials and appointees, as well as the
residents of the Town of Dyer from the within-described circumstances.
   (d)   Procedure. At the time of a individual's submission of an application/
request for appointment to a particular Town Board or Commission, said
individual shall request from appropriate and designated Town representatives,
and shall be provided with, an “authorization to obtain limited criminal
history form” (hereinafter referred to as the “authorization form”). An
applicant may elect to execute, at his/her sole discretion, or not execute, the
“authorization form”. However, unless the Town is in receipt and possession of
an applicant's “authorization form”, the applicant will not be further
considered for appointment to any Town Board or Commission in the Town of Dyer.
      1.   Upon execution of the authorization form by an applicant, the Town's
duly-designated representative shall notify the appropriate and authorized law
enforcement agency(ies) to conduct a limited criminal background investigation
upon the applicant. A “limited criminal background investigation” is defined
as:
         information with respect to any arrest, indictment, information or
other formal criminal charge, which includes a disposition. However,
information about any arrests, indictment, information, or other formal
criminal proceedings which occurred less than one (1) year before the date of a
request shall be considered a limited criminal history even if no disposition
has been entered.
      2.   The law enforcement agency(ies) shall edit information so that the
only information released for inspection is information which:
         a.   has been requested; and
         b.   is limited criminal history information.
   (e)   Upon the completion of the limited criminal background investigation,
appropriate and authorized Town Officials, or their duly designated
representative(s), shall evaluate the information contained therein. An
applicant who has been convicted of any felony crime will not be appointed to
any Town Board or Commission within the Town of Dyer. An applicant who has been
convicted of any misdemeanor crime may remain eligible for appointment to a
Town Board or Commission in the Town of Dyer. However, whether such an
applicant will remain eligible for appointment to a Town Board or Commission,
or not, shall be at the sole discretion of the Town Council. Infractions and
ordinance violations shall not prohibit an applicant from seeking appointment
to a Town Board or Commission, unless such infractions or ordinance violations
cause the applicant to be considered a habitual offender under applicable State
law.
(Ord. No. 2002-26, 10-15-02)
Sec. 2-124 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 2-125 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 2-126 Dyer in Bloom Volunteer Committee.
   (a)   The Dyer in Bloom Volunteer Committee has the following governing
provisions:
      1.   The Committee’s name is the Dyer in Bloom Volunteer Committee
(“DIBVC”).
      2.   The DIBVC exists under the authority of and reports to the Park
Board.
      3.   The DIBVC is organized to coordinate, supervise, and fund all
volunteer efforts related to planting and maintenance of plants on Town
property.
      4.   The DIBVC consists of five (5) members appointed by the Park Board
to four-year terms, with the initial members’ terms expiring on December 31,
2022. All members’ terms commence and expire at the same time. The DIBVC must
choose a president, vice president, executive secretary, and treasurer each
year from among its sitting members.
      5.   The DIBVC must provide semi-annual written reports to the Park Board
by the Park Board’s regular June and December meetings each year. The reports
must include the following information: (1) itemized income and expenditures;
(2) current banking information and bank balances; (3) a roster of active
volunteers under its supervision; (4) a summary of its activities since the
last report; and (5) any other information requested by or helpful to the Park
Board.
      6.   The DIBVC must hold at least one (1) public meeting each year to
adopt and vote on its officers and annual budget.
      7.   The DIBVC continues as an active volunteer committee until
disestablished as provided in Ord. 2022-06. (Ord. No. 2022-09, §2, 4-14-22)
Sec. 2-127 Dyer Summer Fest Committee.
The Summer Fest Volunteer Committee has the following governing provisions:
   (a)   The Committee’s name is the Summer Fest Volunteer Committee (“SFVC”);
   (b)   The SFVC exists under the authority of and reports to the Park Board;
   (c)   The SFVC is organized to coordinate, supervise, and fund all volunteer
efforts related to planning and hosting the Town’s annual Summer Fest event;
   (d)   The SFVC consists of five (5) members appointed by the Park Board to
four-year terms, with the initial members’ terms expiring on December 31, 2022.
All members’ terms commence and expire at the same time. The SFVC must choose a
president, vice president, executive secretary, and treasurer each year from
among its sitting members.
   (e)   The SFVC must provide semi-annual written reports to the Board each
year at: (1) the first regular Park Board meeting of the year; and (2) the
first regular Park Board meeting after the Summer Fest event ends. The reports
must include the following information: (1) itemized income and expenditures;
(2) current banking information and bank balances; (3) a roster of active
volunteers under its supervision; (4) a summary of its activities since the
last report; and (5) any other information requested by or helpful to the Park
Board.
   (f)   The SFVC must hold at least one (1) public meeting each year to adopt
and vote on its officers and annual budget.
   (g)   The SFVC continues as an active volunteer committee until
disestablished as provided in Ord. 2022-06. (Ord. No. 2022-10, §2, 4-14-22)
Sec. 2-128 Volunteer Committee on Disabilities.
The Volunteer Committee on Disabilities has the following governing provisions:
   (a)   The committee's name is the Dyer Volunteer Committee on Disabilities
("DVCD").
   (b)   The DVCD exists under the authority of and reports to the Park Board.
   (c)   The DVCD is organized to investigate and provide recommendations to
the Town on how best to accommodate and provide access to persons with
disabilities.
   (d)   The DVCD consists of three members appointed by the Park Board to
four-year terms, with the initial members' terms expiring on December 31, 2023.
All members' terms commence and expire at the same time. The DVCD must choose a
president from among its sitting members.
   (e)   The DVCD must provide semiannual written reports to the Park Board by
the Park Board's regular June and December meetings each year. The reports must
include the following information: (1) itemized income and expenditures; (2)
current banking information and bank balances; (3) a roster of active
volunteers under its supervision; (4) a summary of its activities since the
last report; and (5) any other information requested by or helpful to the Park
Board.
   (f)   The DVCD must hold at least one public meeting each year to adopt and
vote on its officers and annual budget.
   (g)   The DVCD continues as an active volunteer committee until
disestablished as provided in Ordinance 2022-06, codified herein as Sec.
2-122.
(Ord. No. 2023-01, 1-18-23)
Sec. 2-129 Reserved for Future Use.
Division II. Dyer Development Commission. 24
                                 
24 I.C., § 36-7-12-1, et seq., addresses economic development.
Sec. 2-130 Dyer Development Commission Created. 25
A Department of Development of Dyer is created which shall be under the control
of a Commission to be known as the "Dyer Development Commission."
(Ord. No. 900, § 2, 5-14-74)
                                 
25 Editor's Note: The Dyer Development Commission is also known as the Economic
Development Commission.
Sec. 2-131 Commission Membership.
   (a)   The Commissioners of such Department of Development under the control
of such Dyer Development Commission shall be appointed by the President of the
Town Council of the Town of Dyer, Indiana, as follows:
      One (1) of the members so appointed shall be selected by the President of
the Town Council; one (1) shall be nominated by the County Council of Lee
County, Indiana, and one (1) shall be nominated by the Town Council of the Town
of Dyer, Indiana. Such Commissioners shall take office upon their appointment
and their terms shall run the following number of years from January 1
following such original appointment: The Commissioner selected by the President
of the Town Council - three (3) years; the Commissioner nominated by the Town
Council - two (2) years; and the Commissioner nominated by the Lake County
Council - one (1) year. (Ord. No. 900, § 3, 5-14-74)
   (b)   The President of the Town Council shall appoint two (2) additional
Commissioners whose term shall commence upon the appointment and shall run for
the following number of years from January 1 following such appointment:
      One for three (3) years and one for one (1) year and that further
appointments shall be on the same terms and conditions as provided for original
appointments following notice by the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town as provided
for in this Division.
(Ord. No. 981, 12-29-75)
Sec. 2-132 Commissioners, Disclosure of Interests.
A commissioner shall disclose any pecuniary interest in any employment,
financing agreement or other contract made under the provisions of this Article
or the provisions of Indiana Acts 1973, Public Law 182, before any action by
the Commission on it, and shall not vote on any such matter. Any property
required for the purposes of this chapter in which a commissioner has a
pecuniary interest may be acquired only by gift or condemnation.
(Ord. No. 900, §VII, 5-14-79)
Sec. 2-133 Commission's Duty to Investigate Need, Reports.
It shall be the duty of the Commission to investigate, study and survey the
need for additional job opportunities, industrial diversification, and
pollution control facilities in the municipality and to recommend action to
improve or promote job opportunities, industrial diversification, and
availability of pollution control facilities in the municipality. The
commissioner shall report in writing to the President of the Town Council of
the Town of Dyer, Indiana and the director of the Indiana Department of
Commerce at least once a year.
(Ord. No. 900, §VIII, 5-14-79)
Sec. 2-134 Powers of Municipality and Commission.
In addition to any other powers which it may have, the Town of Dyer, Indiana
and/or the Dyer Development Commission shall have the following powers:
   (a)   To enter into agreements concerning, and to acquire by any lawful
means, land or interests in land and personal property needed for the purposes
of this Article or Indiana Acts 1973, Public Law 182.
   (b)   To exercise its power of eminent domain to acquire unimproved land or
unoccupied facilities and the land relating thereto for the purposes of this
Article or Indiana Acts 1973, Public Law 182.
   (c)   To purchase, lease as lessee, construct, remodel, rebuild, enlarge, or
substantially improve facilities, including machinery and equipment.
   (d)   To lease facilities to users or developers with or without an option
to purchase.
   (e)   To sell facilities to users or developers for consideration which may
be paid in installments or otherwise.
   (f)   To make direct loans to users or developers for the cost of
construction of facilities, in which event the bonds shall be secured by the
pledge of one (1) or more notes, debentures, bonds or other secured or
unsecured debt obligations of the user.
   (g)   To enter into agreements with users or developers to allow such users
or developers to wholly or partially construct facilities to be acquired by the
of Dyer, Indiana or Dyer Development Commission.
   (h)   To issue bonds pursuant to the provisions of this Article or Indiana
Acts 1973, Public Law 182 to accomplish the purposes of this Article or Indiana
Acts 1973, Public Law 182 and to secure the payment of the bonds as provided in
this Article or Indiana Acts 1973, Public Law 182. Nothing in this Article or
Indiana Acts 1973, Public Law 182 shall authorize the financing of pollution
control facilities which have been financed, constructed and placed in use by
any person, firm, partnership, trust, association or corporation prior to the
adoption of a resolution by the Town Council of the Town of Dyer, Indiana, with
respect to such facilities. Nothing in this Article or Indiana Acts 1973,
Public Law 182 shall authorize the financing of economic development facilities
which have been constructed and placed in use prior to the adoption of a
resolution by the Dyer Development Commission with respect to such facilities.
Nothing in this Article or Indiana Acts 1973, Public Law 182 shall authorize
the financing of facilities for a developer unless the agreement between the
developer and the user is fully disclosed to, and approved by, the Dyer
Development Commission or the Town Council of the Town of Dyer, Indiana. (Ord.
No. 900, § IX, 5-14-79)
Sec. 2-135 Special Tax, Use of Proceeds, Transfer of Funds.
The Town Council of the Town of Dyer, Indiana may levy a special tax to pay the
costs of operation of its economic development commission, but such funds shall
not be used to pay any of the costs attributable to the acquisition and leasing
or sale of facilities except for advancements to be reimbursed from bond
proceeds. (Ord. No. 900, § X, 5-14-79)
Sec. 2-136 through Sec. 2-139 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 5. PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
Division I. Americans With Disabilities (ADA)26
                             
26    The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 is located at USC 12101 et
seq., Public Law 101-3361.
Sec. 2-140 Town Policy.
The express policy of the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, shall be to not
exclude qualified individuals with disabilities from participation in or
benefitting from the services, programs, or activities of the Town. It is the
further policy of the Town of Dyer not to discriminate against a qualified
individual with a disability in the Town's job application procedures, that is,
in the hiring, advancement or discharge of employees, employee compensation,
job training, and all other terms, conditions and privileges of employment with
the Town. (Res. No. 92-5, § 2, 2-10-92).
Sec. 2-141 ADA Coordinator.
   (a)   The Town shall designate by appropriate Resolution the individual
charged with coordinating the activities of the Town of Dyer, to carry out its
responsibilities under the applicable law. (Res. No. 92-5, § 3, 2-10-92) (Res.
No. 92-36, 11-10-92)
   (b)   The Town Council Coordinator shall carry out such duties until further
action is taken by the Town Council. (Res. No. 92-36, 11-10-92)
Sec. 2-142 through Sec. 2-144 Reserved for Future Use.
Division II. Deferred Compensation.
Sec. 2-145 Deferred Compensation Plan Established.
The Town Council established the Town of Dyer Deferred Compensation Plan for
the voluntary participation of all eligible town employees and elected
officials. (Res. 91-22, § 1, 12-10-91).
Sec. 2-146 Role of Clerk-Treasurer.
The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to execute for the Town, individual
participation agreements with each said employee requesting same, and to act as
the "Administrator" of the Plan representing the Town, and to execute such
agreements and contracts as are necessary to implement the Program. It is
implicitly understood that other than the incidental expenses of collecting and
disbursing in employee's deferrals and other minor administrative matters, that
there is to be no cost to the Town for the Program. (Res. No. 91-22, § 2, 12-
10-91).
Sec. 2-147 through Sec. 2-149 Reserved for Future Use.
Division III. Benefits Under Indiana State Laws.
Sec. 2-150 Workers' Compensation, Occupational Diseases, and Employers'
Liability. 27
   (a)   The Town of Dyer desires to combine with other governmental entities
for the purpose of paying and administering obligations to their employees and
dependents under the Indiana Workers' Compensation Act (Indiana Code, §§ 22-3-
2 through 22-3-7), the Indiana Occupational Diseases Act (Indiana Code, § 22-3-
8) and the Indiana Employers' Liability Act (Indiana Code 22-3-9).
   (b)   The Town Council Presidents is authorized to execute such documents as
may be necessary.
   (c)   The Fiscal Officer of the Town of Dyer is authorized to pay or cause
to be paid any and all amounts required subject to prior appropriation by the
Town Council. (Res. No. 92-2, 2-10-92)
                             
27   I.C., §§ 36-1-7 and 23-7-1.1, authorize such action.
Sec. 2-151 Public Employees' Retirement Fund (PERF).
   (a)   The Town of Dyer elects to become a participant in the Public
Employees' Retirement Fund as established by the Acts of 1945, Chapter 340 and
all Acts amendatory and supplemental thereto.
   (b)   The Town of Dyer agrees to make the required contributions under the
Public Employees' Retirement Fund Act which is the Acts of 1945, Chapter 340,
and all Acts amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, including
specifically the Acts of 1955, Chapter 329, commonly designated as "The Indiana
Public Employees' Social Security Integration and Supplemental Retirement
Benefits Act."
   (c)   The following positions are covered for regular full-time employees
who are scheduled to work on the average of thirty-two (32) hours per week or
more during the calendar year and for certain other employees hired prior to
January 1, 1996.
   Regular Full-Time Employees
      Clerk-Treasurer
      Chief Deputy Clerk-Treasurer
      Director of Public Works
      Superintendent of Wastewater Treatment Plant
      Computer Programmer
      Staff Engineer
      Zoning Administrator
      Code Enforcement Officer
      Police Radio Dispatchers
      Police Secretary
      Police Clerk
      Deputy Clerk - Clerk-Treasurer's Office
      Clerk (all departments)
      Secretary (all departments)
      Custodian
      Meter Maintenance Man
      Maintenance Man (all classes)
      Foreman
      Shop Mechanic
      Pump Station Mechanic
      Laborer
      Senior Lab Technician - Wastewater Treatment Plant (all classes)
      Lab Technician - Wastewater Treatment Plant (all classes)
      Wastewater Treatment Plant Mechanic (all classes)
      Operations Maintenance Man - Wastewater Treatment Plant (all classes)
      Operations Coordinator - Wastewater Treatment Plant (all classes)
      Director of Park Maintenance
   Employees Hired Prior to January 1, 1996
      Police Crossing Guards
      ( Note: Crossing Guards hired on or after January 1, 1996 will not be
covered by
          the Fund)
   (d)   It is declared that none of the classifications or positions specified
in paragraph (c) herein are compensated on a fee basis or on an emergency
nature, or in a part-time category.
   (e)   The active participating membership of the Town of Dyer shall begin on
January 1, 1979. (Res. No. 78-54, § 1-5, 11-14-78; Res. No. 95-47, 12-21-95)
Sec. 2-152 Public Employees Retirement Fund (PERF) My Choice: Retirement
Savings Plan.
   (a)   The Town of Dyer elects to offer the PERF My Choice: Retirement
Savings Plan to the following positions:
Fire Chief who is ineligible for membership in the 1977 Police Officers’ and
Firefighters’ Pension and Disability Fund as provided in I.C., 36-8-8-7(h)
because he/she has a waiver as described in I.C., 36-8-4-6(c).
Police Chief and Assistant Police Chief who are ineligible for membership in
the 1977 Police Officers’ and Firefighters’ Pension and Disability Fund as
provided in I.C., 36-8-8-7(h) because they have a waiver as described in I.C.,
36-8-4-6.5(c).
   (b)   The active participation membership of these positions begins on March
19, 2021. (Res. No. 2021-15, 4-8-21)
Sec. 2-153 through Sec. 2-157 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IV. Family and Medical Leave Act Personnel Policy.
Sec. 2-158 Employee Eligibility.
Family/Medical Leave of Absence (FMLA Leave) is available to employees who have
been employed by the Town of Dyer for at least one (1) year prior to the date
on which FMLA Leave is to commence, and who have worked at least 1,250 hours
during the 12 months immediately preceding the date on which FMLA leave is to
commence. (Res. No. 93-20, § I, 8-10-93)
Sec. 2-159 Definitions.
The terms of this Article shall have the following meanings:
   1.   Health Care Provider: a licensed physician, dentist, optometrist,
podiatrist, chiropractor, osteopath, physical therapist, respiratory care
practitioner, occupational therapist or psychologist.
   2.   New Child FMLA Leave: to care for the employee's son or daughter after
the birth of that son or daughter.
   3.   Family FMLA Leave: to care for the employee's spouse, son, daughter or
parent who has a serious health condition which is defined as an injury,
illness or physical or mental condition that requires inpatient hospital care
or continuing treatment by a health care provider.
   4.   Employee Medical FMLA Leave: to care for the employee's own condition
defined as a serious health condition which renders the employee unable to
perform his or her job.
   5.   Spouse means a husband or wife as defined by Indiana law.
   6.   Parent means a biological parent or an individual who stands or stood
in loco parentis to an employee when the employee was a child. This term does
not include parents-in-law.
   7.   Son or Daughter means a biological, adopted, or foster child, a
stepchild, a legal ward, or a child of a person standing in loco parentis, who
is either under age 18, or age 18 or older and incapable of selfcare because of
mental or physical disability. (Res. No. 93-20, § II, 8-10-93)
Sec. 2-160 FMLA Leave Availability.
An eligible employee is entitled to FMLA Leave as follows:
   a.   New Child FMLA Leave - for the birth of a child or the placement with
the employee of a child for adoption or foster care:
      1.   FMLA Leave may be taken prior to the actual birth or placement as
circumstances may require.
      2.   An eligible employee's entitlement to FMLA Leave expires twelve (12)
months after the birth or placement.
      3.   In the event that the parents of a son or daughter are both Town
employees, they shall be entitled to a combined total of twelve (12) weeks New
Child FMLA.
   b.   Family FMLA Leave - to care for the employee's seriously-ill spouse,
child, or parent. FMLA Leave is not available to care for unmarried domestic
partners.
   c.   Employee Medical FMLA Leave - due to a serious health condition that
makes the employee unable to perform his or her job functions. (Res. No. 93-20,
§ III, 8-10-93)
Sec. 2-161 Notice and Certification Requirements.
   a.   In cases of foreseeable medical FMLA Leave, employees shall be required
to provide thirty (30) days advance FMLA Leave notice and medical
certification. FMLA Leave shall be denied if these requirements are not met. A
medical certification shall also be required to support an employee's request
to return to work.
   b.   In cases of Family FMLA Leave, the Town shall also require a
certification from a health care provider that the employee is needed to care
for the family member.
   c.   The Town shall also require periodic reports from an employee on FMLA
Leave regarding the employee's status and intent to return to work. (Res. No.
93-20, § IV, 8-10-93)
Sec. 2-162 Implementation of FMLA Leave Benefits.
   a.   An eligible employee is entitled to take up to twelve (12) weeks of
unpaid FMLA Leave per 12-month period, measured backward from the date FMLA
Leave is used.
   b.   An employee who has taken FMLA is entitled to be restored to the same
or an equivalent position upon his/her return to work at the end of the FMLA
Leave period, except in the case of key employees. The Town may deny
restoration of a key employee to that employee's position if necessary to
prevent substantial and grievous economic injury to the Town's operations. The
Town will notify employees of their status as key employees if it believes
there is a possibility that the employee will not be restored at the end of the
leave period, upon which notification the employee may return to work.
   c.   Employees seeking FMLA Leave for any purpose will be first required to
exhaust all available accrued sick leave and vacation leave.
      Thereafter:
      1.   New Child FMLA Leave - the employee shall be eligible for the
balance of the twelve (12) weeks FMLA Leave on an unpaid basis. During the
balance of the twelve (12) weeks, the Town will pay its share and employee will
pay the employee's share of the employee's health insurance premiums.
      2.   Family FMLA Leave - the employee shall be eligible for the balance
of the twelve (12) weeks FMLA Leave on an unpaid basis. During the balance of
the twelve (12) weeks, the Town will pay its share and employee will pay the
employee's share of the employee's health insurance premiums.
      3.   Employee Medical FMLA - Upon exhaustion of all the employee's sick
and vacation days, the balance of the twelve (12) weeks FMLA Leave will be
exhausted through the use of short term disability payments under the Town's
Medical Benefits Plan. During the balance of the twelve (12) weeks, the Town
will pay its share and the employee will pay the employee's share of the
employee's health insurance premiums. Upon the exhaustion of the twelve (12)
weeks, the employee may extend health insurance coverage under COBRA. (Res. No.
93-20, § V, 8-10-93)
Sec. 2-163 Employment Protection/Limitations.
   a.   The use of FMLA Leave will not result in the loss of any employment
benefits (except accrued sick and vacation leave, as provided herein) that
accrued prior to the start of the FMLA Leave.
   b.   Sick leave benefits shall not accrue during the FMLA Leave. Any
vacation leave that accrues during FMLA Leave shall, at that time, be taken as
a part of the approved FMLA Leave.
   c.   Employees have no greater right to restoration or continuation of
benefits that if the employee had been continuously employed during the FMLA
Leave period.
   d.   If an employee fails to return to work after the employee's FMLA Leave
entitlement has expired, the Town may recover health insurance premiums it paid
for maintaining the employee's health insurance benefits during any period of
unpaid FMLA Leave.
This policy is subject to and is to be interpreted consistent with 29 CFR Part
825.
A request for leave of absence for sickness, disability, or for sabbatical
purposes as addressed in Indiana Code § 36-8-6-1, et seq., shall not be
affected by the terms of this policy, and past practices and procedures
governing this state-authorized leave shall continue in full force and effect.
(Res. No. 93-20, § VI, 8-10-93)
Sec. 2-164 Effective Date.
This policy shall be effective from and after August 5, 1993: provided,
however, that for any employee governed by a collective bargaining agreement in
effect on August 5, 1993, this policy takes effect upon the earlier termination
of that collective bargaining agreement or February 5, 1994. (Res. No. 93-20, §
VII, 8-10-93)
Sec. 2-165 and Sec. 2-166 Reserved for Future Use.
Division V. Miscellaneous Regulations.
Sec. 2-167 Town Pay Periods.
   (a)   The following method of payment for Town employees, Fire and Police
Department personnel and Town officials is established:
      1.   All employees, personnel and Town officials shall be paid every two
(2) weeks.
      2.   All Town employees, personnel and officials shall be paid every
other Friday for an eighty (80) hour period which shall expire on the Friday
preceding said payday. (Ord. No. 908, 8-13-74)
Sec. 2-168 Mileage Allowance.
   (a)   The Town of Dyer shall pay a mileage fee per mile for the use of
personal vehicles and expenses incurred by Town personnel and elected officials
relative to Town business, provided, however, that approval and authorization
of such trips shall be made in advance by the Town Council and the Clerk-
Treasurer and that no claim for such mileage shall be paid without prior
authorization. (Ord. No. 83-50, 12-13-83)
   (b)   The mileage allowance shall be fixed at a rate set forth by prevailing
Federal standards for such rates of reimbursement and upon compliance with all
regulations set forth by the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (c)   This ordinance shall take effect January 1, 1994. (Ord. No. 93-19, 12-
8-93)
Sec. 2-169 Purchasing Regulations.
   (a)   Designation of Agent. The Town of Dyer, hereinafter “Purchasing
Agency,” through its Town Council, hereby appoints and designates the Town
Clerk-Treasurer as its Purchasing Agent, hereinafter “Purchasing Agent.”
   (b)   Purchases in Excess of Seventy-Five Thousand Dollars ($75,000.00). All
purchases of supplies, materials, and/or equipment in excess of Seventy-Five
Thousand Dollars ($75,000.00) must be awarded through the competitive bid
process as prescribed in I.C. 5-22-7, as amended from time to time.
   (c)   Purchases in excess of Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00) but
less than Seventy- Five Thousand Dollars ($75,000.00).
      1.   When the Purchasing Agent makes a written determination that the use
of competitive sealed bidding is either not practicable or not advantageous to
the Town of Dyer, the Purchasing Agent may award a contract using the
procedures provided in I.C. 5-22-9, as amended from time to time, instead of
the competitive sealed bidding procedure set forth I.C. 5-22-7.
      2.   The Purchasing Agent may purchase supplies under this Section by
inviting quotes from at least three (3) person known to deal in the lines or
classes of supplies to be purchased. The Purchasing Agent shall mail an
invitation for a quote from the persons referenced above at least seven (7)
days before the time fixed for receiving quotes. In the event that the
Purchasing Agent receives a satisfactory quote, the Purchasing Agent shall
award a contract to the lowest responsible and responsive offeror for each line
of class of supplies required. However, nothing in this Section precludes the
Purchasing Agent from rejecting all quotes submitted. In the event that the
Purchasing Agent does not receive a quote from a responsible and responsive
offeror, the Purchasing Agent may purchase the supplies under I.C. 5-22-10-10,
as amended from time to time.
   (d)   Purchases less than Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00). A
Purchasing Agent may purchase supplies under this Section by inviting quotes
from at least two (2) quote persons known to deal in the lines or classes of
supplies to be purchased. The Purchasing Agent shall mail an invitation for
quotes to persons described above at least seven (7) days before the time fixed
for receiving the quotes. In the event the Purchasing Agent receives a
satisfactory quote, the Purchasing Agent shall award a contract to the lowest
and responsible and responsive offeror for each line or class of supplies
required. However, nothing in this Section precludes the Purchasing Agent from
rejecting all quotes. In the event that the Purchasing Agent does not receive a
quote from a responsible and responsive offeror, the Purchasing Agent may
purchase the similar supplies under I.C. 5-22-10-10, as amended from time to
time.
   (e)   Special Purchases.
      1.   The Purchasing Agent may make a Special Purchase, as prescribed in
I.C. 5-22-10, as amended from time to time.
      2.   The Purchasing Agent must keep a record on file in the Clerk-
Treasurer’s Office of all Special Purchases. The contract file for a special
purchases must contain a written determination of the basis for: (1) the
Special Purchase; and (2) the selection of the contractor. The Purchasing
Agency shall maintain a record listing all contracts made under this Section
for a minimum of five (5) years. The record must contain the following
information: (1) each contractor's name; (2) the amount and type of each
contract; and (3) a description of the supplies purchased under each contract.
These contract records for a Special Purchase are subject to annual audit by
the State of Indiana Board of Accounts.
   (f)   Protection of Offers; Status of Documents as Public Records. The
Clerk-Treasurer's Office shall be the repository for all request(s) for
proposals and bids.
      1.   Protection of Offers Prior to Opening. The Purchasing Agent shall
retain all offers received prior to the date and time at which offers will be
opened. The Purchasing Agent shall prevent disclosure of the contents prior to
the opening of the offers.
      2.   Unobstructed Evaluation of Offer. After the offers have been opened,
the Purchasing Agent shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such a
manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the person or persons
responsible for evaluating the offers.
      3.   Public Records, Status of Bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be available for public inspection and copying after
the time of the bid opening.
      4.   Register of Proposals. The Purchasing Agent shall prepare a register
of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals available for public inspection and
copying. Proposals may not be disclosed. Copying fees may apply.
   (g)   Discussions With Offerors Responding to a Request for Proposals
(Purchases of $25,000.00 and below only). The Purchasing Agent may conduct
discussions with, and best and final offers may be obtained from, responsible
offerors who submit proposals determined to be reasonably susceptible of being
selected for a contract award.
   (h)   Evidence of Financial Responsibility.
      1.   Purchases less than Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00). The
Purchasing Agent may not require evidence of financial responsibility when the
estimated cost of a purchase is less than Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars
($25,000.00).
      2.   Purchases between Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00) and
Seventy-Five Thousand Dollars ($75,000.00). The solicitation may include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility. The
Purchasing Agent and the Town Manager will determine whether evidence is
necessary. In the event that evidence of financial responsibility is required,
the solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If
a bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed ten percent (10%) of
the estimated cost of the purchase.
   (i)   Modification and Termination of Contracts.
      1.   Price Adjustments. The Purchasing Agent may include provisions to
permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. Inclusions of said provisions
must conform to the rules set forth in I.C. 5-22-20-1, as amended from time to
time. Adjustments in price under provisions established by I.C. 5-22-20-1, must
be computed in one (1) of the following ways:
         a.    Price adjustment must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance, or as soon after
the beginning of performance as practicable;
         b.   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         c.   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under such classes with adjustment of profit or fee, all
as specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon;
         d.   Price adjustments must be computed in such a manner as the
contracting parties may mutually agree upon; or
         e.   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the
costs attributed to the events or situation under such clauses with adjustments
for profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in accordance with
applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
      2.   Adjustments in Time of Performance. The Purchasing Agent may include
provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the Contract.
      3.   Unilateral Rights of the Town. The Purchasing Agent may include in
the purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the Town
to order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
      4.   Quantity Variations. The Purchasing Agent may include in a purchase
contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated quantities of
work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
   (j)   All remaining provisions of applicable law for public purchasing under
current law, as the same may be amended from time to time, shall be followed
and utilized by the Town of Dyer for Public Purchasing of Supplies, Materials
and Equipment.
(Ord. No. 2001-11, §§ 2 - 11, 5-15-01)
Sec. 2-170 Establishing Reverse Auction Procedures.
   (a)   Use of Third Party to Conduct Reverse Auctions.
      1.   The purchasing agent is hereby authorized to use a third party to
conduct reverse auctions on behalf of the Town for the purchase of supplies.
The third party that will conduct the reverse auction must have prior
experience in conducting reverse auctions on behalf of local governments.
      2.   The purchasing agent shall obtain a copy of the procedures
established by the third party to conduct the reverse auction on behalf of the
Town and present those procedures to the Town Council for adoption and
inclusion in its applicable procedures prior to participating in any reverse
auction conducted by the third party.
   (b)   Transmission of Notices, Solicitations and Specifications.
      1.   Notices. The purchasing agent shall give notice of a reverse auction
by:
         a.   Publishing notice of the invitation to bid two (2) times, at
least one (1) week apart, with the second publication at least seven (7) days
before the commencement of the reverse auction in accordance with I.C. 5-22-7-
5, I.C. 5-22-18, et. seq., and I.C. 5-3-1, et. seq., all as amended from time
to time;
         b.   Posting the invitation on the Town's website; and
         c.   If a third party is conducting the reverse auction on behalf of
the purchasing agent, by posting, or permitting to have posted, the invitation
on the third party's website.
(Note: Posting an invitation to bid on any website requires compliance with
I.C. 522-3-4, as amended from time to time.)
(Note: The purchasing agent may also give notice of a reverse auction by
electronic mail and/or facsimile transmissions.)
      2.   Solicitations and Specifications. The purchasing agent shall
transmit solicitations and specifications:
         a.   In accordance with the invitation to bid, identifying a
designated location where, during regular business hours, the invitation to bid
may be inspected and copied or copies may be obtained;
         b.   Making them available on the Town's website or providing
information on the website identifying a designated location where, during
regular business hours, the invitation to bid may be inspected and copied or
copies may be obtained;
         c.   If a third party is conducting the reverse auction on behalf of
the purchasing agency, by making them available on the third party's website.
(Note: Posting an invitation to bid on a website requires compliance with I.C.
5-223-4, as amended from time to time.)
   (c)   Pre-Qualification of Bidders.
      1.   All bidders desiring to participate in a reverse auction must be
prequalified by submitting materials to ensure that they meet the
specifications identified by the buyer as to the types of supplies to be
offered for purchase no later than twenty-four (24) hours before the time of
the commencement of the reverse auction, as provided in the invitation to bid.
      2.   The pre-qualification process shall be used to determine whether the
bidder is responsible and responsive, as provided in I.C. 5-22-7.5, et. seq.,
as amended from time to time, whether any bidding or purchasing preferences
exist, and whether the bidder has submitted evidence of financial
responsibility, as required by the purchasing agent. In order to assist the
purchasing agent in pre-qualifying bidders, the bidder must submit, in
accordance with the invitation to bid, all documentation and other information
relating to the supplies being offered for purchase, except for price, and any
other information that may assist the purchasing agent in making its
determination. Such documentation shall include evidence of financial
responsibility or a certified check, as specified in the bid.
      3.   In determining whether a bidder is responsible, the purchasing agent
may consider the following factors:
         a.   The ability and capacity of the bidder to provide the supplies;
         b.   The integrity, character and reputation of the bidder; and
         c.   The competency and experience of the bidder.
      4.   In determining whether a bidder is responsive, the purchasing agent
may consider the following factors:
         a.   Whether the bidder has submitted information demonstrating that
his/her/its offer for supplies conforms to the specifications in all material
respects;
         b.   Whether the bidder has submitted documentation that complies
specifically with the solicitation and instructions to bidders; and
         c.   Whether the bidder has complied with all applicable statutes,
ordinances, resolutions and/or rules pertaining to the award of a public
contract.
      5.   The determination that a bidder is not responsive or not responsible
must be made in writing.
      6.   Pre-qualification of bidders must be done by the purchasing agent or
an authorized representative of the purchasing agent in the presence of one (1)
or more witnesses and must be completed no later than twenty-four (24) hours
prior to the commencement of the reverse auction bidding period.
      7.   The purchasing agent shall notify any bidder determined to be not
pre-qualified in writing, by facsimile or electronic mail (as requested by the
bidder) and shall exclude the bidder so notified from participation in the
reverse auction.
      8.   The purchasing agent's determination that a bidder is not
prequalified is limited to the reverse auction for which the request for
prequalification was received.
   (d)   Contents of Invitation to Bid. The invitation to bid must include all
of the following:
      1.   A purchase description;
      2.   A statement that the bids will be accepted by means of a reverse
auction process;
      3.   A description of all contractual terms and conditions that apply to
the purchase, including the requirement of a noncollusion affirmation by the
successful bidder;
      4.   The criteria that will be used by the purchasing agent to prequalify
bidder to determine whether a bidder is responsive and responsible;
      5.   The information and other documentation required to be submitted for
pre-qualification, including a certified check or other evidence of financial
responsibility;
      6.   The location and manner in which bidders must submit information for
pre-qualification, the deadline for submission of such information, and the
deadline by which the Board will determine whether is pre-qualified;
      7.   The location, including any websites, at which the invitation to bid
may be inspected and copied or copies obtained, including, if a third party is
conducting the reverse auction on behalf of the Town, the procedures to be used
by the third party to conduct the reverse auction;
      8.   A statement as to whether a third party is conducting the reverse
auction on behalf of the Town;
      9.   A statement indicating that offers submitted by pre-qualified
bidders will only be received through the Town's secure website or, if a third
party is conducting the reverse auction on behalf of the Town, through the
third party's secure website;
      10.   The date and time at which the reverse auction bidding period will
begin and the approximate length of time for which the reverse auction will be
conducted, allowing for automatic extensions based upon resulting competitive
activity;
      11.   The deadline by which pre-qualified bidders must submit an initial
price to a secure website for the purposes of establishing a bidder's
participation and initial ranking at the commencement of the reverse auction
bidding period;
      12.   A statement explaining that the bidding period during which the
reverse auction is conducted may be extended based upon competitive activity,
at pre-determined periods determined by the purchasing agency;
      13.   A statement identifying the circumstances under which the reverse
auction may be postponed, paused, rescheduled or cancelled;
      14.   The place and approximate time at which, following the close of the
bidding period, offers will be reviewed publicly by an authorized
representative of the purchasing agent in the presence of one (1) or more
witnesses;
      15.   A statement that the third party conducting the reverse auction on
behalf of the Town will collect a service charge from the successful bidder for
its participation in the reverse auction;
      16.   The name, address and telephone number of a representative of the
purchasing agent who can provide additional information related to the reverse
auction;
      17.   If a third party is conducting the reverse auction on behalf of the
Town, the name, address and telephone number of a representative of the third
party who can provide additional information related to the reverse auction,
including the mandatory training required of all prequalified bidders as a
condition of participating in the reverse auction; and
      18.   The conditions under which the invitation to bid may be cancelled
or postponed in accordance with I.C. 5-22-18-1, as amended from time to time.
   (e)   Receiving Offers.
      1.   The purchasing agent shall receive offers only from bidders who have
been pre-qualified, in accordance with the invitation to bid.
      2.   If a third party conducts the reverse auction on behalf of the Town,
all pre-qualified bidders must receive training provided by the third party in
order to participate in the reverse auction.
      3.   Prior to receiving electronic offers, the purchasing agent must find
that:
         a.   The invitation for bid for the reverse auction indicates the
procedure for transmitting the electronic offer; and
         b.   The electronic system on which the offer is received has a
security feature that protects the content of an electronic offer with the same
degree of protection as the content of an offer that is not transmitted by
electronic means.
      4.   In accordance with the invitation to bid, offers submitted by pre-
qualified bidders will only be received:
         a.   Through the Town's secure website; or
         b.   If a third party is conducting the reverse auction on behalf of
the Town, through the third party's secure website.
   (f)   Reverse Auction Bidding Period.
      1.   For each reverse auction, the purchasing agent must establish an
initial bidding period during which bidders may submit prices for which the
supplies being offered may be purchased. The initial bidding period shall not
be less than one (1) hour. The purchasing agent may automatically extend the
reverse auction bidding period for additional pre-determined periods based upon
competitive activity.
      2.   During the bidding period for the reverse auction, information
available for public display is limited to the ranking, price and name of
bidders of each price bid relative to all other prices bid.
      3.   The dollar amounts of the prices bid by bidders shall not be
disclosed to the bidders until the close of the bidding period.
      4.   All information received, obtained or retained during a reverse
auction remains confidential and may not be disclosed until after the close of
the reverse auction bidding period.
   (g)   Opening Offers.
      1.   In accordance with I.C. 5-22-7-5, as amended from time to time,
offers will be deemed to be opened when a computer generated record of the
information contained in all bids received from pre-qualified responsive and
responsible bidders is reviewed publicly at the close of the bidding period for
the reverse auction in the presence of one (1) or more witnesses at the time
and place designated in the invitation for bids by the purchasing agent (or
his/her authorized representative).
      2.   The purchasing agent, and any of his/her agents or employees, are
prohibited from displaying for public viewing the amount of each initial bid
price until the close of the initial bidding period for the reverse auction.
The purchasing agent is required to protect the identity of a bidder and the
prices which have been submitted by each bidder until the initial bid has been
placed until the reverse auction begins, at which time bids will be deemed
opened.
   (h)   Contract Award.
      1.   In accordance with I.C. 5-22-7-8, as amended from time to time, the
purchasing agent must award a contract for the purchase of supplies with
reasonable promptness by written notice to the lowest responsible and
responsive bidder.
      2.   If the contract is not awarded to the lowest bidder, the purchasing
agent must indicate the reasons for the award in writing.
   (i)   Purchase Orders and Payments.
      1.   A fully executed purchase order must be filed with the Town Clerk
Treasurer within thirty (30) days after the award of the contract for a
purchase of supplies through a reverse auction in accordance with I.C. 5-22-18-
5, as amended from time to time.
      2.   Payments for supplies purchased in a reverse auction shall be made
only after receiving properly submitted claims in accordance with I.C. 5-11-10,
et seq. and I.C. 36-5-4, et seq., both as amended from time to time.
   (j)   Documentation. The purchasing agent shall be required to maintain
adequate documentation regarding its reverse auctions so that the transactions
may be audited as provided by applicable law. The purchasing agent shall
maintain an indexed file of specifications prepared by or under the authority
of the purchasing agent for each reverse auction in which the Town
participates.
(Ord. No. 2004-26, § 1, 11-16-04)
Sec. 2-171 Credit Cards.
   (a)   The Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, by and through the Office of
the Town Manager, is hereby authorized to obtain and issue credit cards for the
payment of expenses and/or purchases on behalf of the Town of Dyer, Indiana.
   (b)   The authorized individuals who may use the Town issued credit cards
are members of the Town Council, the Clerk-Treasurer, the Town Manager, all
administrative heads of departments, and such other individuals as authorized
by the Town Manager.
   (c)   The use of said credit cards is subject to the following guidelines:
      1.   The issuance and monitoring of the use of said credit cards is
hereby delegated to the Town Manager, or his duly authorized agent;
      2.   When the purpose for which the credit card has been accomplished
and/or the card is no longer necessary to be used, said card shall be returned
to the Office of the Town Manager;
      3.   No interest, carrying charges, or penalties shall be incurred by, or
imposed upon, the Town of Dyer due to late payments;
      4.   Any and all invoices filed in connection with the use of credit
cards shall be itemized before being approved and paid. (Ord. No. 2009-06, 6- -
09)
Division VI. Code of Standards of Conduct-Federal Funding.
Sec. 2-172 Conduct Code Adopted.
The following is a written code of conduct which shall govern the performance
of employees, officers or agents of the Town of Dyer engaged in the award and
administration of contracts supported by Federal funds. (Res. No. 85-7, § 1, 8-
13-85)
Sec. 2-173 Standards of Conduct.
The standards of conduct for said employees, officers or agents are as follows:
   (a)   No employee, officer or agent of the Town shall participate in
selection, or in the award or administration of a contract supported by Federal
funds if a conflict of interest, real or apparent, would be involved.
   (b)   Such a conflict would arise when:
      (i)   The employee, officer or agent;
      (ii)   Any member of his or her immediate family;
      (iii) His or her partner; or
      (iv)   An organization which employs, or is about to employ, any of the
above, has a financial or other interest in the firm selected for award.
   (c)   The employees, officers or agents shall neither solicit nor accept
gratuities, favors or anything of monetary value from contractors, potential
contractors, or parties to subagreements. (Res. No. 85-7, § 2, 8-13-85)
Sec. 2-174 Conflicts.
It is established that where the interest of an employee, officer or agent is
five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less, such interest shall be considered not
substantial; and where a gift is an unsolicited item of twenty-five dollars
($25.00) or less, it shall be considered of nominal intrinsic value; and in
each instance no conflict shall arise.
(Res. No. 85-7, § 3, 8-13-85)
Sec. 2-175 Violations.
   (a)   In the event that an employee, officer or agent of the Town violates
this written Code of conduct, such person shall receive notice of the alleged
violation, an opportunity for hearing if requested, and upon a finding of
violation shall receive disciplinary action of either recordation, suspension
or dismissal.
   (b)   In the event that a contractor, or its agents, or any person acting on
their behalf, shall offer or give a gratuity, favor or anything of monetary
value to an employee, officer or agent of the Town of Dyer, the Council shall
provide a notice of the alleged violation, an opportunity for hearing if
requested, and upon the finding of violation the Council shall have the right
to terminate said contract and shall be free from any obligation to pay any
sums of money whatsoever thereunder. (Res. No. 85-7, § 4, 8-13-85)
Sec. 2-176 and Sec. 2-177 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VII. Personnel Policies.
Sec. 2-178 Personnel Policies Included by Reference.
The 1994 Personnel Policy Manual for the Town of Dyer, Indiana, which became
effective January 1, 1994, and the Town of Dyer Employee Handbook, are
incorporated herein by reference with copies of the same being available for
public inspection in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer during regular business
hours.
(Res. No. 94-1, 4-12-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-06, 5-16-00; Am. Ord. No. 2001-21,
9-18-01)
Sec. 2-179 Extraordinary Situations.
   (a)   In extraordinary situations in which the application of the terms and
conditions of the Personnel Policy Manual will work a hardship upon an
employee, the Clerk-Treasurer, in the case of employees of the Clerk-
Treasurer's office; or the Dyer Town Council, by unanimous consent for all
other Town employees, may allow a variance from any measure covered in the Dyer
Personnel Policy Manual other than those required by the laws of the United
States of America or the State of Indiana.
   (b)   The variance must be requested by the employee with specific details
outlining the request and the reasons therefor. The Clerk-Treasurer or the Town
Council must consider the request and respond to the request in thirty (30)
days or less.
   (c)   The response of the Town Council or the Clerk-Treasurer will then be
reduced to writing with a copy given to the employee and a copy placed in the
Master Personnel File in the Clerk-Treasurer's office.
   (d)   No appeal shall be allowed for this decision.
(Res. No. 95-57, 12-12-95)
ARTICLE 6. FUNDS ESTABLISHED.
Sec. 2-180 Special Non-Reverting Park Activities Operating Fund.
   (a)   The special non-reverting park activities operating fund shall receive
monies from people in anticipated payment for Park Department sponsored
activities.
   (b)   The monies in this account shall in fact be spent on the activities
for which the monies are received by this fund.
   (c)   In the event this fund runs a surplus balance after the above referred
to activity payments, said surplus balance can be then spent for Park
Department office supplies.
(Ord. No. 91-34, § 1 § 3, 12-10-91)
Sec. 2-181 Public Safety Income Tax Fund.
There is hereby created the Town of Dyer Public Safety Income Tax Fund pursuant
to I.C. 6-3.5-1.1-25 to provide money for all purposes and uses authorized by
said statute.
(Ord. No. 2013-15, § 1, 12-12-13)
Sec. 2-182 Employee Comprehensive Medical Insurance Fund.
The proceeds of the insurance refund received from and after January 1, 1995,
shall be deposited into the “Employee Comprehensive Medical Insurance Fund” and
shall only be spent to provide for life, disability and medical insurance
benefits to Town employees.
(Res. No. 92-15, 4-14-92; Res. No. 95-56, 12-12-95)
Sec. 2-183 Building and/or Remodeling Fire Fighting and Police Radio Equipment
Fund. 28
   (a)   It is necessary to establish a cumulative building and equipment fund
for the erection of fire stations and/or the erection of additions to and the
remodeling of the present buildings used to house fire fighting equipment and
for the purchase of fire fighting equipment and police radio equipment.
(Ord. No. 816, § 1, 2-8-72)
   (b)   There is established a cumulative building and equipment fund for the
erection of fire stations and/or the erection of additions to and the
remodeling of the present buildings used to house fire fighting equipment, and
for the purchase of fire fighting equipment and police radio equipment for the
Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana.
(Ord. No. 816, § 2, 2-8-72).
   (c)   In order to provide for said cumulative building and equipment fund,
the Town Council of the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, there shall be a
levy annually after the approval of such fund, of a tax on all taxable property
in the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, of not more than ten cents ($0.10)
on each one hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed valuation of property in the
taxing district of the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana.
(Ord. No. 816, § 3, 2-8-72)
   (d)   The revenue derived from such taxation shall be held in a special fund
to be known as the “Building and/or Remodeling Fire Fighting and Police Radio
Equipment Fund.” (Ord. No. 816, § 4, 2-8-72)
                             
28   Editor's Note:  Ord. No. 91-22, passed on August 26, 1991, establishes the
maximum levy for this fund in 1992.
Sec. 2-184 Cumulative Capital Development Fund. 29
   (a)   There is re-established a Dyer Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
(Ord. No. 93-4, § 1, 3-9-93)
   (b)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed upon all taxable real
and personal property within the taxing district and the revenues from the levy
will be retained the Dyer Cumulative Capital Development Fund. (Ord. No. 93-4,
§ 2, 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2019-02, § 2, 4-11-19)
   (c)   The maximum rate of levy under paragraph (b) will not exceed: five
cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) assessed valuation. (Ord. No.
93-4, § 3, 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2019-02, § 3, 4-11-19)
   (d)   The Dyer Cumulative Capital Development Fund shall remain in effect
until it is rescinded or abolished. (Ord. No. 93-4, § 4, 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2019-
02, § 4, 4-11-19)
   (e)   The funds accumulated in the Dyer Cumulative Capital Development Fund
will be used for the following purposes:
      1.   To construct such streets, alleys, sidewalks, or thoroughfares as
required, and to maintain the same, and further, to fund any and all related
purposes consistent thereto.
      2.   To purchase, lease, or pay all or part of the purchase price of
motor vehicles for the use of the Police and Fire Department, or both,
including ambulance and firefighting vehicles with all necessary equipment.
      3.   Any and all other purposes allowed by Indiana Code § 36-9-15.5-2.
(Ord. No. 93-4, § 5, 3-9- 93; Am. Ord. 2019-02, § 5, 4-11-19)
   (f)   Notwithstanding paragraph (e), funds accumulated the Dyer Cumulative
Development Fund may be spent for purposes other than the purposes stated in
paragraph (e), if the purpose is to protect the public health, welfare or
safety in an emergency situation which demands immediate action. Funds may be
utilized under the authority of this Section only after the Town Council
President issues a declaration that the public health, welfare or safety is in
immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money from the fund. (Ord.
No. 93-4, § 6, 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 2019-02, § 6, 4-11-19)
                             
29   I.C., §§ 36-9-16-1 through 36-9-16-6, address Cumulative Capital
Improvement Funds.
Sec. 2-185 Subdivision Professional Distribution.
All monies collected under the provisions of Section
10-119 of the Dyer Town Code and classified as “Subdivision Inspection Fees”
shall be distributed as follows: One-half (½) to be deposited into the
Subdivision Professional Fees Fund, and the remaining one-half (½) to be
deposited into the Motor Vehicle Highway Fund (MVH). (Ord. No. 94-3, 3-8-94;
Am. Ord. No. 2000-40, § 1, 12-19-00)
Sec. 2-186 Debt Service Fund.
   (a)   There is established a Debt Service Fund for the Town of Dyer,
Indiana. (Ord. No. 86-29, § 1, 8-12-86)
   (b)   The Town Council may include in the annual budget of the Town of Dyer
an item and an appropriation for funding this Debt Service Fund. However,
nothing contained in this Section shall be construed as an obligation on the
part of the Town Council to make an appropriation for said Fund. (Ord. No. 86-
29, § 2, 8-12-86)
   (c)   The funds accumulated in the Debt Service Fund established shall be
used for purposes of acquiring land and constructing a new Town Hall and Police
Department including the purchase of land and site improvement and/or the
leasing of appropriate facilities for use as a Town Hall and Police Department,
or a combination thereof. (Ord. No. 86-29, § 3, 8-12-86).
   (d)   Funds placed in the Debt Service Fund established may not be withdrawn
except for the purposes set forth herein, so long as this ordinance remains in
full force and effect. (Ord. No. 86-29, § 4, 8-12-86).
Sec. 2-187 Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund. 30
   (a)   The Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund is established for
purchases made by the Dyer Police Department for equipment, supplies,
continuing education, and law enforcement training for the Police Department.
   (b)   This fund is comprised of fees collected by the Dyer Police Department
from the following activities:
      1.   Vehicle Inspections.
      2.   Accident Reports.
      3.   Proceeds from the sale of confiscated weapons.
      4.   All digitally recorded voice or image recordings including Body-
Camera Footage.
   (c)   Before any money from this fund is spent, it must first be
appropriated according to State Statute. (Ord. No. 93-22, 12-8-93)
   (d)   The funds accumulated in the Local Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Fund established must be used for continuing education and training
of law enforcement officers employed by the Town. All expenditures must comply
with the terms of the statute under the authority of which the Fund is created,
and must be approved by the Chief of Police. (Ord. No. 87-15, § 3, 6-9-87)
   (e)   The funds placed in the Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education
Fund may not be withdrawn except for the purposes provided in this section.
(Ord. No. 87-15, § 4, 6-9-87; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, §4, 1-13-22)
                             
30   I.C., §§ 9-29-4-2, 9-29-11-1, 35-47-2-3, 33-19-8-4 and 33-6-3-4, address
deposits into a Continuing Education Fund effective July 1, 1993.
Sec. 2-188 Solid Waste Disposal Facilities Fund.
All revenues collected pursuant to Ord. No. 80-68 set forth in Sections
9-201 through
9-204 of this Code shall be deemed to be the revenues of the Solid Waste
Disposal Facilities, and shall be maintained in a separate fund to be known as
the “Solid Waste Disposal Facilities Fund”. (Ord. No. 80-68, § 2, 12-9-81)
Sec. 2-189 Metropolitan Police Pension Fund.
   (a)   The Constitution and Bylaws of the Metropolitan Police Pension Fund
are approved.
   (b)   Copies of said documents are on file in the Office of the Clerk-
Treasurer and open for public inspection during regular business hours. (Ord.
No. 78-28, 7-11-78).
Sec. 2-190 Motor Vehicle Highway Fund (MVH).
   (a)   Funds from the Street Fund are transferred to the credit of the Motor
Vehicle Highway Fund. (Res. No. 683, 12-28-67).
   (b)   This fund shall receive state funds and be used for expenditures
authorized by Indiana Code, § 8-14-1-1, et seq.
Sec. 2-191 Local Road and Street Fund (LRS).
The Local Road and Street Fund (LRS) is established for the purpose of
receiving applicable State funds and for expenditures permitted by statute.
(I.C., § 8-14-2-1, et seq.)
Sec. 2-192 Police Department Incident Report Account.
   (a)   There are established fees which may be collected by the Dyer
Metropolitan Police Department for certain reports, photographs, and video
tapes, and such fees shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Five dollars ($5.00) for the first page of an Incident Report and
three dollars ($3.00) for each page thereafter.
      (2)   Three dollars ($3.00) for each photograph or copy thereof furnished
by the Police Department.
      (3)   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for a video tape or copy thereof furnished
by the Police Department.
   (b)   Fees collected pursuant to this Section shall be deposited in the Law
Enforcement Continuing Education Fund.
(Am. Ord. No. 96-29, 12-10-96)
Sec. 2-193 In Re Forfeiture Fund.
This fund is created pursuant to the ordinance established procedures for the
disposition of seized property and cash from civil forfeiture activities which
are set forth in Sections
3-42 through Sec.
3-45 of this Code. (Ord. No. 91-26, § 4, 10-8-91).
Sec. 2-194 Racketeering Forfeiture Fund.
This fund is created pursuant to the ordinance established procedures for the
disposition of seized property and cash from civil forfeiture activities which
are set forth in Sections
3-42 through Sec.
3-45 of this Code. (Ord. No. 91-26, § 4, 10-8-91).
Sec. 2-195 Federal Equitable Sharing Program Fund.
This fund is created pursuant to the ordinance established procedures for the
disposition of seized property and cash from civil forfeiture activities which
are set forth in Sections
3-42 through Section
3-45 of this Code. (Ord. No. 91-26, § 4, 10-8-91).
Sec. 2-196 Cumulative Fire and Police Radio Equipment Fund.
   (a)   The Town Council did by Ordinance No. 816 provide a Cumulative Fire
and Police Radio Equipment Fund for purchase of firefighting equipment and
police radio equipment pursuant to Indiana Code, § 6-1.1-18-4.
   (b)   Ordinance No. 816 did establish a ten cents ($.10) tax rate on each
one hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed valuation beginning in year 1972,
payable in year 1973 and continuing indefinitely thereafter.
   (c)   A provision of Ordinance No. 816 sets the maximum levy for the
Cumulative Fire and Police Radio Equipment Fund to increase as the assessed
valuation of the Town increases.
   (d)   The Town Council of the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, sets the
maximum levy for the Cumulative Fire and Police Radio Equipment Fund to be
fixed in an amount of approximately twenty thousand ($20,000) dollars for the
1996 budget year. (Ord. No. 93-13, 5-11-93; Ord. No. 95-29, 11-14-95)
Sec. 2-197 Miscellaneous Funds Continued.
The following funds are continued in effect. Each shall be funded and operated
in accordance with all statutory requirements:
   Abandoned Vehicle Fund
   1989 Calumet Avenue Engineering Fund
   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund (Cigarette Taxes I.C., § 36-9-16-1)
   Economic Development Revitalization Fund
   General Fund
   Impact Fees Fund
   Innkeeper's Tax Fund
   Law Enforcement Grant Fund
   Law Enforcement Training Fund
   Parks and Recreation Fund
   Parks Non-Reverting Capital Fund
   Sheffield Avenue Road Escrow Fund
   Solid Waste Refuse Disposal Fund
   State Recycling Grant Fund
   Waterworks Construction Fund
   Waterworks Debt Service Reserve Fund
   Waterworks Improvement Fund
Sec. 2-198 Park and Recreation Department Funds.
   The following funds are created and shall be under the control of the Dyer
Park and Recreation Department:
      (1)   Bike Path Fund (non-reverting capital fund).
      (2)   Dyer Community Network Fund (general non-reverting operating fund).
      (3)   Tri-Town Players Fund (non-reverting operating fund).
(Ord. No. 96-15, 8-13-96)
      (4)   Park Escrow Fund (general non-reverting operating fund).
(Ord. No. 96-18, 9-10-96)
Sec. 2-199 Casino Gaming Revenue Fund.
   (A)   There is established a Casino Gaming Revenue Fund for the town.
   (B)   All casino gaming revenues received by the town shall be deposited
into the Casino Gaming Revenue Fund.
   (C)   The Casino Gaming Revenue Fund shall be perpetual until terminated by
subsequent ordinance. Upon termination of the Casino Gaming Revenue Fund, all
balance left therein shall be deposited into the General Fund of the town.
   (D)   The monies deposited into the Casino Gaming Revenue Fund shall be
spent only upon roads, streets, and infrastructure improvements located within
the corporate boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 97-18, passed 7-8-97)
Sec. 2-200 Alphabetical Listing of Funds.
DYER TOWN FUNDS
NAME               CODE SECTION
American Rescue Plan Fund   Sec. 2-209.7
Amtrak Fund            Sec. 2-206
Building and/or Remodeling Fund   Sec. 2-183
CARES Act Reimbursement Fund   Sec. 2-209.6
Casino Gaming Revenue Fund   Sec. 2-199
CPR and “Stop the Bleed” Fund   Sec. 2-209.8
Cumulative Capital Development Fund   Sec. 2-184
Cumulative Fire and Police Radio Equipment Fund   Sec. 2-196
Debt Service Fund    Sec. 2-186
Dyer Berens-Monaldi Phase II Project Construction Fund   Sec. 2-205
Dyer Recycling Fund         Sec. 2-181
Economic Development Fund   Sec. 2-209
Employee Comprehensive Medical Insurance Fund   Sec. 2-182
Federal Equitable Sharing Program Fund   Sec. 2-195
Health & Employee Benefit Insurance Non-Reverting Fund   Sec. 2-209.4
In Re Forfeiture Fund   Sec. 2-193
Law Enforcement Aid and Confidential Petty Cash Fund   Sec. 2-201
Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund   Sec. 2-187
Leaking Underground Storage Tank Soil Remediation Fund   Sec. 2-204
Local Option Income Tax Special Distribution Fund   Sec. 2-209.2
Local Road and Street Fund (LRS)   Sec. 2-191
Main Street TIF Fund   Sec. 2-209.3
Metropolitan Police Pension Fund   Sec. 2-189
Miscellaneous Funds   Sec. 2-197
   Abandoned Vehicle Fund   Sec. 2-197
   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
      (Cigarette Taxes I.C. 36-9-16-1)   Sec. 2-197
   Economic Development Revitalization Fund   Sec. 2-197
   General Fund   Sec. 2-197
   Impact Fees Fund   Sec. 2-197
   Innkeeper's Tax Fund   Sec. 2-197
   Law Enforcement Grant Fund   Sec. 2-197
   Law Enforcement Training Fund   Sec. 2-197
   Parks and Recreation Fund   Sec. 2-197
   Parks Non-Reverting Capital Fund   Sec. 2-107
   Sheffield Avenue Road Escrow Fund   Sec. 2-197
   Solid Waste Refuse Disposal Fund   Sec. 2-197
   State Recycling Grant Fund   Sec. 2-197
   Waterworks Construction Fund   Sec. 2-197
   Waterworks Debt Service Reserve Fund   Sec. 2-197
   Waterworks Improvement Fund   Sec. 2-197
Motor Vehicle Highway Fund (MVH)   Sec. 2-190
Multi-Peril Insurance Fund   Sec. 2-209.5
Municipal Surtax Fund   Sec. 2-250
Municipal Wheel Tax Fund   Sec. 2-250
Parks and Recreation Department Funds   Sec. 2-198
      Bike Path Fund   Sec. 2-198
      Dyer Community Network Fund   Sec. 2-198
      Park Escrow Fund   Sec. 2-198
      Tri-Town Players Fund   Sec. 2-198
Partnership for a Drug Free Lake County Fund   Sec. 2-203
Police Department Incident Report Account   Sec. 2-192
Police Department Special Revenue Fund   Sec. 2-207
Racketeering Forfeiture Fund   Sec. 2-194
Rainy Day Fund   Sec. 2-209.1
Rental Housing Inspection Fund   Sec. 2-208
Special Non-Park Activities Operating Fund   Sec. 2-180
Solid Waste Disposal Facilities Fund   Sec. 2-188
Subdivision Professional Fees Fund   Sec. 2-185
Town Hall Building and Maintenance Capital Improvement Non-Reverting
Fund   Sec. 2-202
Sec. 2-201   Law Enforcement Aid and Confidential Petty Cash Fund.
   (a)   There is hereby established a law enforcement aid program for the Town
of Dyer Metropolitan Police Department.
   (b)   There is further hereby established a Law Enforcement Aid/Confidential
Petty Cash Fund, which shall be known as the Confidential Petty Cash Fund,
pursuant to the procedures set forth in I.C. 36-1-8-3, as amended from time to
time. The Confidential Petty Cash Fund shall be established with a balance of
Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00), which balance shall be maintained during the
time of the existence of said Fund. Further, the expenditure for the
establishment of the Confidential Petty Cash shall be through a line item
transfer from the General Fund in the Town Police Department budget in
conformance and compliance with applicable procedures set forth by the State of
Indiana Board of Accounts.
(Ord. No. 99-16, 7-13-99)
Sec. 2-202   Special Town Hall Building Maintenance and Capital Improvement
Non-Reverting Fund.
   (a)   There is hereby established for the Town of Dyer, Indiana, a Special
Dyer Town Hall Building Maintenance and Capital Improvement Non-Reverting Fund
for purposes of establishing a maintenance and capital improvement funding
source for said Dyer Town Hall and related structures at One Town Square, Dyer,
Indiana, and all other public buildings, facilities, and real estate owned by
the Town of Dyer pursuant to the provisions of Indiana Code 36-1-3-1, et seq.,
as amended from time to time.
   (b)   The established Special Dyer Town Hall Building Maintenance and
Capital Improvement Non-Reverting Fund shall be funded from casino gaming funds
paid to the town, and from such other funds authorized by law, as directed by
the Town Council, upon receipt of same. It is not the intention of this
enabling ordinance, nor the requirement that all casino gaming funds, or such
other funds as authorized by law, be deposited into said Special Dyer Town Hall
Building Maintenance and Capital Improvement Non-Reverting Fund established
hereby, but only funds as are directed by the Town Council upon receipt
thereof.
   (c)   The funds deposited into the Special Dyer Town Hall Building
Maintenance and Capital Improvement Non-Reverting Fund established hereby shall
be reviewed on an annual basis by the Town Council. Funds collected and
deposited into the Special Non-Reverting Fund established hereby shall be
utilized solely for maintenance and/or capital improvements to the Dyer Town
Hall and all related structures and improvements on the real property upon
which the Dyer Town Hall is located at One Town Square, Dyer, Indiana, and all
other public buildings, facilities, and real estate owned by the Town of Dyer,
after review and approval by the Town Council. Said funds are to be used as
indicated, and as authorized and approved by the Town Council.
   (d)   The established Special Non-Reverting Fund established hereby shall
continue as a Non-Reverting Fund until repealed by subsequent ordinance of the
town. The fund balance in the Special Dyer Town Hall Building Maintenance and
Capital Improvement Non-Reverting Fund established hereby shall be non-
reverting at each calendar-year end. In the event that the Special Non-
Reverting Fund is terminated by repeal or amendatory ordinance, the funds
contained therein at the time of termination of the Non-Reverting Fund by
repeal or ordinance shall be deposited into the General Fund of the Town.
(Ord. No. 2000-02, 2-15-00; Am. Ord. No. 2016-20, 9-8-16)
Sec. 2-203   Partnership for a Drug Free Lake County Fund.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Town of Dyer Partnership for a Drug
Free Lake County Fund.
   (b)   All revenues received by the Town from the Fund shall be spent only as
authorized by the approved guidelines of the Fund.
   (c)   The monies deposited into the Fund shall be spent only as authorized
by the approved guidelines of the Partnership for a Drug Free Lake County
Program.
(Ord. No. 2001-24, 10-16-01)
Sec. 2-204   Leaking Underground Storage Tank Soil Remediation Fund.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Town of Dyer Leaking Underground
Storage Tank Soil Remediation Fund.
   (b)   All revenues received by the Town of Dyer from IDEM for the soil
remediation program pertaining to the property located on Edmund Drive in the
town shall be deposited in the Fund.
   (c)   The monies deposited into the Fund shall be spent on costs related to
the restoration and remediation of the site.
(Ord. No. 2001-25, 10-16-01)
Sec. 2-205 Dyer Berens-Monaldi Phase II Project Construction Fund.
   (a)   There is hereby established the “Dyer Berens-Monaldi Phase II Project
Construction Fund.”
   (b)   Any monies contributed by the Dyer Town Council, the Town of Dyer
Department of Water Works, the Town of Dyer Department of Storm Water
Management and/or the Town of Dyer Sanitary Board of Directors for payment of
costs incurred in connection with the Berens-Monaldi Phase II Construction
Project shall be deposited into the “Dyer Berens-Monaldi Phase II Project
Construction Fund,” as well as any and all other monies that are specifically
identified to be used in connection with said Berens-Monaldo Phase II
Construction Project and its purposes.
   (c)   The monies deposited into the “Dyer Berens-Monaldi Phase II Project
Construction Fund” shall be spent only on costs incurred in connection with the
Berens-Monaldi Phase II Construction Project, as approved and authorized by the
Town Council.
(Ord. No. 2004-10, 4-13-04)
Sec. 2-206 Amtrak Fund.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Town of Dyer Amtrak Fund which shall
be a Special Revenue Fund under the rules, regulations, and requirements of
applicable Indiana law, including the Indiana Code, as amended from time to
time, as well as the administrative rules and requirements of the Indiana State
Board of Accounts.
   (b)   Any monies received from the Amtrak Railway shall be deposited into
the Town of Dyer Amtrak Fund.
   (c)   The monies deposited into the Town of Dyer Amtrak Fund shall be
utilized and expended only for the purpose of maintenance of the Amtrak
Station.
(Ord. No. 2009-03, 3-18-09)
Sec. 2-207 Police Department Special Revenue Fund.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Town of Dyer Police Department Special
Revenue Fund which shall be a special revenue fund under the rules,
regulations, and requirements of applicable Indiana law, including the Indiana
Code, as amended from time to time, as well as the administrative rules and
requirements of the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (b)   Any monies received from the Fingerprint Service Fee, Towing Release
Service Fee, and the Infraction Deferral Program be deposited into the Town of
Dyer Police Department Special Revenue Fund.
   (c)   The monies deposited into the Town of Dyer Police Department Special
Revenue Fund shall be utilized and expended only for the purposes of public
safety and public safety related matters, including salaries and/or bonus
payments to Police Officers.
   (d)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is authorized and directed to take all
appropriate and required steps to establish the Police Department Special
Revenue Fund in conformance and compliance with all applicable law, as amended
from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2010-10, 11-3-10)
Sec. 2-208 Rental Housing Inspection Fund.
   (a)   There is hereby established the Rental Housing Inspection Fund which
shall be a fund under the rules, regulations, and requirements of applicable
Indiana law, including the Indiana Code, as amended from time to time, as well
as the administrative rules and requirements of the Indiana State Board of
Accounts.
   (b)   Any monies received from the rental registration fees on or after May
11, 2011, shall be deposited into the Rental Housing Inspection Fund.
   (c)   The monies deposited into the Rental Housing Inspection Fund shall be
utilized and expended only for the purpose of reimbursing the costs reasonably
related to the costs of maintaining such a program.
   (d)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is authorized and directed to take all
appropriate and required steps to establish said Rental Housing Inspection Fund
in conformance and compliance with all applicable law, as amended from time to
time.
(Ord. No. 2011-07, 9-8-11)
Sec. 2-209 Economic Development Income Tax Fund.
There is hereby created the Town of Dyer Economic Development Income Tax Fund
pursuant to I.C. 6-3.5-7-1 et seq. to provide money for all purposes and uses
authorized by said statutes, and in accordance with the Town of Dyer Capital
Improvement Fund as amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2013-14, § 1, 12-12-13)
Sec. 2-209.1 Rainy Day Fund.
   (a)   There is hereby authorized, created and established a fund of the Town
of Dyer, to be called the Rainy Day Fund, pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8-5.1 et seq.
   (b)   The Rainy Day Fund is established for the purpose of accumulating
funds to provide resources to support lawful purposes of the municipality,
including meeting exigencies as herein may be defined and such other purposes
permitted by I.C. 36-1-8-5.1 and as are identified in this section.
   (c)   The sources of funding for the Rainy Day Fund may include the
following:
      2.   Interest earned from the investment of moneys on deposit to the
credit of the fund, provided such investments are conducted pursuant to I.C. 5-
13-9 et seq.;
      3.   An appropriation in the annual budget in the several funds of the
municipality as may be identified and approved by the Town Council, and then
transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, subject to the provision of I.C. 36-l-8-5.1
(d);
      4.   Unreserved, undesignated fund balances which may be identified in
the several funds of the municipality, as maybe approved by the Town Council,
and then transferred to the Rainy Day Fund, subject to the provision of I.C.
36-l-8-5.1(d).
   (d)   The Rainy Day Fund is subject to the same appropriation process as
other funds of the municipality that receive tax money.
   (e)   In any fiscal year, the Town Council may transfer not more than ten
percent (10%) of the town's total annual budget for that fiscal year, adopted
under I.C. 6-1.1-17, to the Rainy Day Fund as authorized by I.C. 36-1-8-5.1.
   (f)   The Rainy Day Fund is established and remains in effect until such
time as the fund is repealed or rescinded by action of the Town Council.
   (g)   In addition to uses of said fund permitted by I.C. 36-1-8-5.1,
expenditures from the Rainy Day Fund may be used for the following purposes:
      1.   All lawful purposes for which a town may expend funds pursuant to
the statutes of the State of Indiana;
      2.   The operation of the town and its various departments when the town
does not have sufficient levies or funds to pay such costs, including, but not
limited to salaries, wages, costs of services, supplies, equipment, capital
improvements, repairs, and similar expenditures.
      3.   Such funding as may be determined reasonable and necessary by the
Town Council for the uses and purposes for which funds from the General Fund,
the County Option Income Tax, and County Economic Development Income Tax may
otherwise be expended.
   (h)   Expenditures from the Rainy Day Fund may be made only upon
appropriation by the fiscal body for the purpose for which the fund is
specifically established, in the manner provided by statute for making other
appropriations and shall be disbursed only on approved accounts payable
vouchers allowed by the legislative body, all pursuant to I.C. 5-11-10 and I.C.
36-5-4.
   (i)   Money in the Rainy Day Fund may be invested provided that the yields
from the purchase and sale of any such investments shall be deposited with the
fund pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9.
   (j)   All unused and unencumbered cash on deposit to the credit of the Rainy
Day Fund does not revert to the town General Fund or to any other fund but
shall remain with the Rainy Day Fund until such time as an ordinance is passed
and adopted regarding its disposition.
(Ord. No. 2014-16, 11-13-14)
Sec. 2-209.2 Local Option Income Tax Special Distribution Fund.
There is hereby created the Town of Dyer Local Option Income Tax Special
Distribution Fund pursuant to I.C. 6-3.6-9-17 et seq. to provide money for all
purposes and uses authorized by said statutes and specifically that seventy-
five percent (75%) of said funds be used for infrastructure improvements and
the remaining twenty-five percent (25%) for any lawful purpose.
(Ord. No. 2016-11, 5-12-16)
Sec. 2-209.3 Main Street TIF Fund.
   (a)   There is hereby established the “Main Street TIF Fund” which shall be
a fund under the rules, regulations, and requirements of applicable Indiana
law, including the Indiana Code, as amended from time to time, as well as the
administrative rules and requirements of the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (b)   Any TIF monies received from taxes paid by the Main Street Development
shall be deposited into the Main Street TIF Fund.
   (c)   Monies deposited into the Main Street TIF Fund shall be utilized and
expended only for the purposes set forth in the agreement between the Town of
Dyer, the Town of Dyer Redevelopment Commission, and Main Street.
   (d)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and directed to take all appropriate
and required steps to establish the Main Street TIF Fund in conformance and
compliance with all applicable law, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2017-16, 12-14-17)
Sec. 2-209.4 Health & Employee Benefit Insurance Non-Reverting Fund.
   (a)   There is established the Health & Employee Benefit Insurance Non-
Reverting Fund which shall be a fund under the rules, regulations, and
requirements of applicable Indiana law, including the Indiana Code, as amended
from time to time, as well as the administrative rules and requirements of the
Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (b)   Any monies received for health and employee benefit insurance from the
following funds shall be deposited into the Health & Employee Benefit Insurance
Non-Reverting Fund:
      1.   General
      2.   MVH
      3.   Parks Operating and Activity
      4.   Storm Water Operating
      5.   Water Operating
      6.   Sanitary Operating
      7.   Solid Waste Operating
      8.   Redevelopment Operating
   (c)   The monies deposited into the Health & Employee Benefit Insurance Non-
Reverting Fund shall be utilized and expended for payment of all employee
related insurance costs including, but not limited to, the employees’ share of
health, dental, vision, hearing, life, short and long term disability premiums,
consultant fees for the Agent of Record, and all other related administrative
expenses.
   (d)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and directed to take all appropriate
and required steps to establish the Health & Employee Benefit Insurance Non-
Reverting Fund in conformance and compliance with all applicable law, as
amended from time to time.
   (e)   The Health & Employee Benefit Insurance Non-Reverting Fund shall
continue as a non-reverting fund until repealed by subsequent ordinance of the
town. The fund balance in the Health & Employee Benefit Insurance Non-Reverting
Fund shall be non-reverting at each calendar year end. In the event this non-
reverting fund is terminated by repeal or amendatory ordinance, the funds
contained therein at the time of termination of the non-reverting fund by
repeal or ordinance shall be deposited into the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 2017-17, 12-14-17)
Sec. 2-209.5 Multi-Peril Insurance Fund.
   (a)   There is established the Multi-Peril Insurance Fund which shall be a
fund under the rules, regulations, and requirements of applicable Indiana law,
including the Indiana Code, as amended from time to time, as well as the
administrative rules and requirements of the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (b)   Any monies received for Multi-Peril Insurance from the following funds
shall be deposited into the Multi-Peril Insurance Fund:
      1.   General MVH
      2.   Parks Operating & Activity
      3.   Storm Water Operating
      4.   Water Operating
      5.   Sanitary Operating
      6.   Solid Waste Operating
      7.   Redevelopment Operating.
   (c)   The monies deposited into the Multi-Peril Insurance Fund shall be
utilized and expended for the payment of all expenses related to Multi-Peril
Insurance including payment of insurance premiums, insurance deductibles, legal
expenses related to insurance claims and matters, bonds and related expenses.
   (d)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized and directed to take all appropriate
and required steps to establish said Multi-Peril Insurance Fund in conformance
and compliance with all applicable law, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2017-18, 12-14-17)
Sec. 2-209.6 CARES Act Reimbursement Fund.
The Town of Dyer creates a CARES Act Reimbursement Fund for the sole purpose of
receiving CARES Act funds and distributing them as provided below.
   (a)   The CARES Act reimbursement for public health and pubic safety payroll
shall be receipted into the Town of Dyer CARES Act Fund; and
   (b)   Thereafter a claim shall be created against the CARES Act Fund for the
amount, up to the payroll reimbursement amount, that Council determines shall
be receipted into the general fund. This claim must be supported by the public
health and/or public safety payroll costs that have been expensed from the
general fund or other appropriate funds and clearly documented in the records
of Dyer; and
   (c)   The money claimed shall be receipted into the general fund.
   (d)   After the payroll reimbursement amount has been receipted into the
general fund, the normal appropriation procedures shall apply to the
expenditure of the reimbursement amount.
   (e)   The Council may authorize transfers that should be undertaken with
respect to this transaction of funds from the CARES Act Fund to other funds
that have expended monies for eligible expenses. (Ord. No. 2020-15, 10-15-20;
Am. Ord. No. 2020-25, 12-15-20)
Sec. 2-209.7 American Rescue Plan Fund.
   (a)   A fund, called the American Rescue Plan Fund, is established for the
sole purpose of receiving, holding, and disbursing funds made available under
the American Rescue Plan Act; and
   (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to administer and account for the Fund
and all proceeds received, held, or disbursed by it.
   (c)   1.   The Town of Dyer’s Plan for distribution of the Grant Funds is as
follows:
         a.   Payments identified in this Plan, including future amendments,
are authorized uses of the Grant Funds.
         b.   The Plan may be amended to comply with ARPA, including subsequent
amendments, rules adopted by the United States Department of the Treasury under
Title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations, or by the Dyer Town Council to the
extent permitted by ARPA.
         c.   Payment of all Grant Funds received under ARPA are subject to
appropriation by the Dyer Town Council.
         d.   The Plan’s procedures and designated uses for distribution of the
Grant Funds from ARPA are contained in the divisions below.
      2.   Recovering lost revenue due to COVID-19.
         a.   A permitted use of the initial Grant Funds is to recover the
Town’s reduction in revenue due to the COVID-19 emergency, as defined by
Section 603(c)(1)(C) of ARPA (“Lost Revenue”).
         b.   In accordance with the Final Rule (87 FR 4338) adopted by the
United States Department of the Treasury, the Town elects the standard
allowance of ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00) as its amount of lost
revenue.
         c.   ARPA provides broad and flexible uses of lost revenue recoupment
outside of the eligibility requirements stated in other categories of permitted
use under ARPA. Subject to appropriation actions, the Town has broad discretion
to use the lost revenue, including to determine whether and in what amounts
lost revenue funds may be applied to selected government services.
         d.   Lost revenue funds may not be used to replenish the Town’s Rainy
Day Fund or other Town reserve funds, to make any extraordinary contribution to
a pension fund, to pay any settlement or judgement, to make additional payments
on Town debt, or towards any use that violates state or federal law.
         e.   Permitted uses of lost revenue funds are subject to change, and
the Town Council may consider amendments to the Plan changing the use of lost
revenue funds upon request from a federal agency or as required by ARPA.
      3.   Timeline.
         a.   Pursuant to ARPA, the Town may use only Grant Funds obligated
before December 31, 2024.
         b.   The period of performance for projects funded by Grant Funds
concludes on December 31, 2026, by which date all projects funded by Grant
Funds must be completed.
      4.   Procedure.
         a.   All payments under this resolution must be made from the ARPA
Fund created by Res. 2021-12.
         b.   All requests for payment under this resolution must be submitted
to and approved by the Town Council.
(Res. No. 2021-12, 4-8-21; Res. No. 2022-16, §§1 - 4, 5-12-22)
ARTICLE 7. TOWN MEMBERSHIPS AND AGREEMENTS.31
                             
31   I.C., § 36-1-3-2, authorizes powers for the effective operation of
government.
Sec. 2-210 Town Memberships Authorized.
The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the General
Fund or from other funds to provide membership for the Town of Dyer and the
elected and appointed officials and members of the municipality's boards,
commissions, and departments in local, regional, state, and national
associations of a civic, educational or governmental nature, which have as
their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations.
The Town Council is further authorized to budget and appropriate funds to pay
the expenses of duly authorized representatives to attend the meetings and
functions of organizations to which the municipality belongs.
(Ord. No. 82-10, 4-13-82).
Sec. 2-211 Interlocal Government Agreements and Mutual Aid Agreements.
The Town is authorized pursuant to Indiana Code, §§ 36-1-7-1 through 36-1-7-12,
as may be amended from time to time, to enter into joint agreements for the
purchase or exchange of property and services with other governmental bodies
through appropriate ordinance or resolution of the Town Council.
Sec. 2-212 through Sec. 2-219 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 8. ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
Sec. 2-220 Ordinance Violations Bureau Established.
An Ordinance Violations Bureau for the Town of Dyer is established under I.C.
33-36 to collect fines of at least one hundred dollars ($100.00) for violation
of any Town ordinance. The Clerk-Treasurer serves as the Violations Clerk and
Administrator of the Bureau. The Clerk-Treasurer’s office is authorized to
accept written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of violations, and
payment of civil penalties. (Ord. No. 89-38, 10-10-89; Ord. No. 99-13, 7-13-99;
Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, §1, 1-13-22)
Sec. 2-221 Schedule of Code Provisions and Violations.
The following schedule of fees applies to all violations of Indiana State
Statutes and Dyer Town Code Ordinances, and are subject to the jurisdiction of
the Ordinance Violations Bureau:
   (a)   Indiana State Statutes. The fine for a violation of any provision of
state statute for which the Town has enforcement authority is one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   (b)   Non-traffic Ordinances. The following schedule of fines applies to all
violations of Town Ordinances except those contained in
Chapter 8 of the Town Code:
   Schedule of Civil Penalties
   Code Section   Short Title            Penalty
 
   4-32         Circuses Carnivals         $100.00
   4-59         Sales Control          100.00
   6-19         Alcohol in Motor Vehicles       100.00
   6-30         Sprinkling Ban          100.00**
   6-47         Alarm Systems          100.00*
   6-54         False Alarms             100.00**
   6-60         Public Nuisance          100.00*
   6-89         Animal Control          100.00
   6-102         Fireworks             100.00*
   6-113         Air Rifles, Pistols, and Slingshots    100.00*
   6-119         Hunting             100.00*
   6-125         Snow Removal          100.00
   6-130         Curfew Violation          100.00
   6-139         Location of Dumpsters       100.00
   6-140         Burning             100.00
   6-141         Garbage Disposal          100.00
   6-171         Smoking             100.00
   7-2         House Numbers          100.00*
   7-85         Building Code          100.00*
   7-98         Licensing of Contractors and Subcontractors     100.00**
   9-66         Fire Protection          100.00*
   9-191         Underground Utilities       100.00*
   10-138      Zoning Violation          100.00*
      *   Denotes minimum penalty; maximum remains as provided.
      **   Denotes first offense penalty; subsequent offense penalties remain
as provided.
   (c)   Traffic ordinances.
      (1)   All moving violations not exceeding fifteen (15) miles per hour
over the posted speed limit that do not occur on secondary artery streets:
$50.00.
      (2)   All moving violations exceeding fifteen (15) miles per hour over
the posted speed limit but not exceeding twenty-five (25) miles per hour over
the posted speed limit that do not occur on secondary artery streets: $60.00.
      (3)   All moving violations exceeding twenty-five (25) miles per hour
over the posted speed limit that do not occur on secondary artery streets:
$75.00.
      (4)   All moving violations exceeding the posted speed limit that occur
on secondary streets: $75.00.
      (5)   All moving violations not involving exceeding the posted speed
limit, except moving violations in a construction area: $75.00.
      (6)   All moving violations occurring in a construction area: $500.00.
      (7)   All handicap and fire lane parking violations: $100.00.
      (8)   All other parking violations: $50.00.
      (9)   Seatbelt violation: $25.00.
(Ord. No. 89-38, 10-10-89; Am. Ord. No. 97-15, 8-12-97; Am. Ord. No. 99-13, 7-
13-99; Am. Ord. No. 2001-18, §2, 8-21-01; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, §1, 1-13-22)
Sec. 2-222 Civil Penalties.
The civil penalties provided in the preceding section are the specific civil
penalty for the violation of all Town Ordinances. This provision overrides any
contradictory provision in any Town Ordinance or in the Town Code. (Ord. No.
89-38, 10-10-89; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, §1, 1-13-22)
Sec. 2-223 Court Proceedings.
A person charged with an ordinance or code violation is entitled to a trial
before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to trial
and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon such
an admission, the Violations Clerk must assess and receive from the violator
the civil penalty established in this ordinance. A person may pay civil
penalties in person or by mail to the Ordinance Violations Bureau. If a person
charged with a violation under this ordinance exercises the right to trial, the
person must either deny the violation orally in person before the Violations
Clerk or enter a written denial with the Clerk’s office.
If a person:
   (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this ordinance;
   (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
   (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this ordinance;
the Clerk must report the denial or failure to the Ordinance Enforcement
Officer and the Town Attorney for prosecution. Proceedings in court against the
person may then initiate for the alleged ordinance violation. The Violations
Clerk must account for all funds paid as civil penalties for ordinance
violations and deposit them into the Town’s General Fund. (Ord. No. 89-38, 10-
10-89; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, §1, 1-13-22)
Sec. 2-224 through Sec. 2-229 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 9. TOWN POLICIES.
Sec. 2-230 Uncollectible accounts receivable.
   The following shall constitute the bad debt/uncollectible account receivable
write-off policies and procedures for the Town of Dyer:
   (a)   In the event that accounts receivable under this section, as amended
from time to time, are not paid within the time fixed by the Town of Dyer
(hereafter "the Town") or a Town Agency or Department, the same shall be deemed
delinquent. A penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the account
receivable shall attach as delinquent fees.
   (b)   As used herein, the term FINAL ACCOUNT shall have the following
meaning: A delinquent account receivable for which the Town or Town Agency or
Department has reasonably and diligently attempted collection, but in which
such collection remains unsuccessful.
   (c)   The Town or Town Agency or Department shall prepare a semi-annual
schedule of final accounts. The semi-annual schedule shall consist of the
following.
      (1)   all final accounts which are at least one hundred twenty (120) days
delinquent; and
      (2)   which the Town or Town Agency or Department has determined to be
uncollectible.
   (d)   The Town or Town Agency or Department shall generate a statement
setting forth the efforts that have been made to collect final accounts and a
statement that such efforts have been unsuccessful.
   (e)   The Town or Town Agency or Department shall produce a statement,
including the reasons therefore, that the Town or Town Agency or Department
believes it is economically not feasible to pursue collection measures for the
specified final account.
   (f)   The semi-annual schedule described in subsection (c) hereinabove, the
statement described in subsection (d) hereinabove, and the statement described
in subsection (e) hereinabove, shall be submitted to the Town Council, which by
resolution may declare said accounts listed as uncollectible and may authorize
the Town or Town Agency or Department to cease further collection procedures
and expense the amounts outstanding on the accounts as bad debts.
   (g)   The Town or the Town Agency or Department may attempt to recover the
amount of the bad debt in a civil action against the debtor.
(Ord. No. 2003-16, 9-16-03)
Sec. 2-231 Fixed Asset Capitalization Policy.
   (a)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates otherwise or
requires a different meaning, namely:
      (1)   Capital assets.
         a.   Land, land improvements, including monuments, buildings, building
improvements, construction in progress, machinery and equipment, vehicles and
infrastructure. All land will be capitalized but not depreciated. All items
with a useful life of more than one (1) year, and having a unit cost of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more shall be capitalized (including
acquisitions by lease-purchase agreements or donated items). A capital asset
meeting the criteria will be reported and depreciated in the government-wide
financial statements.
         b.   Assets that are not capitalized (items having a unit cost of less
than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)) are expensed in the year of
acquisition. An inventory will be kept on all computers and other equipment
with a capitalized cost of less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
Exceptions are:
            1.   Items costing less than the above-described limits which are
permanently installed as a part of the cost of original construction or
installation of a larger building or equipment unit will be included in the
cost of the larger unit;
            2.   Modular equipment added subsequent to original equipment
construction of a larger building or equipment unit which may be put together
to form larger units costing more than the prescribed limits will be charged to
capital assets even though the cost of individual items is less than such
limits; and
            3.   Cabinets, shelving, bookcases and similar items added
subsequent to original construction, which are custom-made for a specific place
and adaptable elsewhere will be capitalized.
NOTE: Purchases made using grant funds must comply with grant requirements or
the above procedures, whichever is most restrictive.
      (2)   Capital Outlays. Expenditures which benefit both the current and
future fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures,
construction or improvement of buildings, structures or other fixed assets and
equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of usefulness.
These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition to the
Town's general fixed assets.
      (3)   Enterprise Funds. Those funds used to account for operation that
are financed and operated in a manner similar to private business enterprise
where the intent of the Town Council is that the costs (expenses, including
depreciation) of providing goods or services to the general public on a
continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily through user charges or
where the Town Council has decided that periodic determination of revenues
earned, expenses incurred, and/or net income is appropriate for capital
maintenance, public policy, management control, accountability and other
purposes. The Enterprise Fund of the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, shall
include the municipally-owned sewage and stormwater utilities. Operation of the
utilities shall require Enterprise Fund accounting and reporting.
      (4)   Fixed Assets. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the
operating activities of the Town and that are relatively permanent and are
needed for the production and sale of goods or services are termed property,
plant and equipment or fixed assets.
      (5)   Historical Cost. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or
services at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment and most
inventories are common examples of items recognized under the Historical Cost
attribute.
      (6)   Tangible Assets. Assets that can be observed by one (1) or more of
the physical senses. These assets may be seen and touched and, in some
environments, heard and smelled.
   (b)   Specific capitalization provisions.
      (1)   Land.
         a.   Land is defined as specified land, lots, parcels, or acreage. The
Town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost. Exceptions to land
capitalization are land purchased outright, as easements, or right-of-way for
infrastructure. Examples of infrastructure include roads and streets, street
lighting systems, curbs, parking meters, street signs, viaducts, wharfs and
storm water collection.
         b.   Original cost of land will include the full value given to the
seller, including relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase
(including title work and legal opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees,
surveying and costs for preparing the land for its intended purpose (including
contractors and/or Town employees (salary and benefits), such as demolishing
buildings, excavating, clean up and/or inspection. Land is not depreciated
under generally accepted accounting principles.
         c.   A department will record donated land at fair market value on the
date of transfer plus any associated costs.
         d.   Purchases made using Federal or State funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      (2)   Machinery and Equipment. The definition of machinery and equipment
is an apparatus, tool or conglomeration of pieces to form a tool. The tool will
stand alone and not become a part of a basic structure or building. This
category also includes any other asset or type of physical property not
otherwise classified in this policy.
         a.   The Town will capitalize and tag items with an individual value
equal to or greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). Machinery combined
with other machinery to form one (1) unit with a total value greater than the
above-mentioned limit will be one (1) unit.
         b.   Shipping charges, consultant fees, and any other costs directly
associated with the purchase, delivery, or setup, (including contractors and/or
Town employees (salary and benefits)), which make such equipment operable for
its intended use and purpose will be capitalized.
         c.   Improvement or renovations to existing machinery and equipment
will be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
            1.   Total costs exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000.00);
            2.   The useful life is extended two (2) or more years;
            3.   The total cost will be greater then the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
         d.   Salvage value of machinery or equipment will be determined on an
asset-by-asset basis. Depreciation will be calculated at year-end.
      (3)   Buildings. A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with
no subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments
are roofs, heating, cooling, lighting or sprinkler systems, or any part of the
basic building. The department will include the cost of items designed or
purchased exclusively for the building. All structures designed and erected to
house equipment services or functions are included, such as systems, services,
and fixtures within the buildings, and attachments such as porches, stairs,
fire escapes, canopies, areaways, lighting fixtures, flagpoles, and all other
units that serve the building.
         a.   Plumbing systems, lighting systems, heating, cooling, ventilating
and air handling systems, alarm systems, sound systems, surveillance systems,
passenger and freight elevators, escalators, built-in casework, walk-in coolers
and freezers, fixed shelving, and other fixed equipment are included with the
building, if owned. Communication antennas and/or towers are not included as
buildings. These are parts of the equipment units that they serve.
         b.   A department's new building will be capitalized only if it meets
the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds five thousand dollars ($5,000.00); and
            2.   The useful life is greater than two (2) years.
         c.   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize only if the result meets all of the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds five thousand dollars ($5,000.00); and
            2.   The useful life is extended two (2) years or more; and
            3.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
         d.   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for the
building, architectural and engineering fees, bond issuance fees, interest cost
(while under construction), accounting costs if material, any costs directly
attributable to the construction of a building.
         e.   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value
on the date of transfer with any associated costs.
         f.   Purchases made using Federal or State funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      (4)   Improvements Other than Buildings. These assets are defined as
improvements to land for better enjoyment, attached or not easily removed, and
which will have a life expectancy of greater than two (2) years. Examples are
walkways, parking areas and drives, golf cart paths, fencing, retaining walls,
pools, outside fountains, planters, underground sprinkler systems, water supply
mains, collection sewers, wells, dams, intake pipes, manholes, fire hydrants
and other similar items. Improvements do not include roads, streets, or assets
that are of value only to the public. Roads or drives upon Town owned land that
provide support to Town facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the road for
public enjoyment is an infrastructure improvement and is not capitalized.
However, sidewalks installed upon the Town owned land for use by the public and
for the support of Town facilities are capital assets.
         a.   The Town will capitalize new improvements, other than buildings,
only if the same meet the following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds five thousand dollars ($5,000.00); and
            2.   The useful life is greater than two (2) years.
         b.   A department will capitalize improvements or renovations to
existing improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the
following conditions:
            1.   The total cost exceeds five thousand dollars ($5,000.00); and
            2.   The asset's useful life is extended two (2) years or more; and
            3.   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
         c.   A department's donated improvements, other than buildings, will
be recorded at fair market value on the date of transfer with any associated
costs.
         d.   Purchases made using Federal or State funding will follow the
source funding policies and above procedures.
      (5)   Recording and Accounting. The Town and its various departments
shall classify capital expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from
which the expenditure was made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the
Cities and Towns Accounting Manual. The cost of the property, plant and
equipment includes all expenditures necessary to put the asset into position
and ready for use. For purposes of recording fixed assets of the Town and its
departments, the valuation of assets shall be based on historical costs, or
where the historical cost is indeterminable, by estimation for those assets in
existence.
         a.   The Town's municipally-owned utilities shall record acquisition
of fixed assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
When an asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply recorded at the
amount of cash paid, including all outlays relating to its purchase and
preparation for use. Assets may be acquired under a number of other
arrangements including, but not necessarily limited to, the following:
            1.   Regular purchases.
            2.   Acquisition under capital lease (see below).
            3.   Assets acquired for a lump-sum purchase.
            4.   Purchase on deferred payment contract.
            5.   Acquisition by resolution/ condemnation.
            6.   Acquisition by exchange of non-monetary assets.
            7.   Acquisition by issuance of securities.
            8.   Acquisition by self-construction.
            9.   Acquisition by donation, contribution or discovery.
            10.   Acquisition by outside contractor.
            11.   Addition to an existing asset.
            12.   Acquisition by transfer from another department.
            13.   Acquisition by annexation.
         b.   Leased equipment should be capitalized if the lease meets any one
(1) of the following criteria:
            1.   The lease transfers ownership of the property to the lessee by
the end of the lease term; or
            2.   The lease contains a bargain purchase option; or
            3.   The lease term is equal to seventy-five percent (75%) of the
estimated economic life of the leased property; or
            4.   The present value of the minimum lease payments at the
inception of the lease, excluding executory costs, equals at least ninety
percent (90%) of the fair market value of the leased property.
         c.   Leases that do not meet any of the above criteria should be
recorded as an operating lease and reported in the notes of the financial
statements.
         d.   Some of these arrangements present special problems relating to
the cost to be recorded. For example, in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has been long recognized as a part of the asset cost.
Reference to an Intermediate Accounting Manual will illustrate the recording of
acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition arrangements. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the utilities, the valuation of assets
shall be based on historical cost.
         e.   For the purposes of this policy, as amended from time to time, an
Asset Register (prescribed Form 211, a copy of which is attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit "A") shall be maintained by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer to provide a detailed record of the capital assets of the
Town of Dyer.
      (6)   Safeguarding of Assets. The following accounting controls are
hereby authorized to be designed, implemented and followed by all departments,
officials, employees and agents of the Town to provide reasonable assurances
that the Town's assets are safeguarded for the benefit of the Town and its
residents, namely:
         a.   Capital expenditures made by the Town, its various departments
and utilities, shall be in accordance with management's authorization, as
documented in the minutes.
         b.   Transactions of the utilities shall be recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.
         c.   Adequate detail records shall be maintained to assure
accountability for Town and utility-owned assets.
         d.   Access to assets shall be permitted in accordance with
management's authorization.
         e.   The recorded accountability assets be compared with the existing
assets at least every two (2) years, and appropriate action shall be taken with
respect to any discrepancies.
      (7)   Composite/Group Network. A network of assets is composed of all
assets that provide a particular type of service for government. A subsystem of
a network of assets is composed of all assets that make a similar portion or
segment of a network of assets.
         a.   Composite depreciation refers to calculation of depreciation for
a collection of similar assets. A single composite rate is applied annually to
the acquisition cost of the collection as a whole. At year-end, an adjustment
will be made to the total cost to account for any additions/disposals
throughout the year. The accumulated depreciation associated with it will also
be adjusted. A gain or loss will never be reported on the asset when using the
composite method. A full year's depreciation will be taken when the asset is
placed in service and no depreciation will be recorded in the year it is sold
or disposed of. Dissimilar assets will be grouped by useful lives.
         b.   To determine the appropriate depreciation rate for the composite
rate, divide 1 by the number of years the assets are depreciated. For instance,
a group of assets with a twenty-five (25) year life will be depreciated at four
percent (4%) each year (1/25).
         c.   The following is a list of asset groups and useful lives that
will be used for depreciation purposes:
            Street Lights:    35 years
            Traffic Signals:    25 years
            Flood Walls/Gates:    50 years
            Roads:
               Cement:    10 years
               Gravel :    15 years
               Concrete:    30 years
               Asphalt Concrete:    20 years
               Brick or Stone:   50 years
            SEWER:
            Buildings and Improvements:    50 years
            Sewer Lines:    50 years
            Combined Sewer Overflow:    50 years
            Lift Station:    50 years
            Treatment Plant/ Equipment:   10 years
            Office Equipment:   5 years
            Miscellaneous Operating Equipment:   5 years
            Vehicles:   5 years
      8.   Asset Transfers and Dispositions. Property should not be
transferred, turned in for auction, or disposed of without prior approval of
the department head. A vehicle/equipment outprocessing checklist should be sent
to the Clerk-Treasurer's Office in all cases. This form is a dual purpose form
for transfer (defined as any movement of an asset by virtue of change in
location, either by account, department, building, floor, or room) or
retirement (disposal) of property.
         a.   The main points to be remembered when using this form are:
            1.   Always provide sufficient detail to properly identify the
asset and, most
importantly, include the asset's tag/identification number;
            2.   Be accurate and do not overlook any of the required entries;
            3.   Write legibly;
            4.   Complete each column for every asset listed on the form;
            5.   Enter information on correct rows, depending on whether an
asset is being transferred or deleted;
            6.   Have Department Head sign the form; and
            7.   Return the form to the Clerk-Treasurer's Office.
         b.   If an asset is stolen, the Department Head should immediately
notify the Police Department and the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (9)    Periodic Inventories. A physical inventory of all capital assets
(any item over five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)) will be conducted in each
department on or about December 31st of each calendar year. Department heads
will be accountable for the capital asset inventory charged to their respective
departments by verifying a list of their capital assets at year-end.
      (10)   Responsibilities of Clerk-Treasurer's Office. The Clerk-Treasurer
will ensure that accounting for capital assets is being exercised by
establishing a capital asset inventory, both initially and periodically in
subsequent years. The Clerk-Treasurer will further ensure that the capital
asset report will be updated annually to reflect additions, retirements and
transfers, and to reflect the new, annual capital asset balance for financial
reporting purposes and the annual and accumulated depreciation calculation.
      (11)   Responsibilities of Department Heads. It is the responsibility of
the department heads to act as, or designate, a steward for each asset covered
by this policy. The steward will become the focal point for questions regarding
the availability, condition and usage of the asset, as well as the contact
person during the physical inventory process.
         a.   The steward shall record the receipt of the asset, examine the
asset to make sure that no damage was incurred during shipment and make sure
that the asset was received in working order.
         b.   The steward is also responsible for arranging for the necessary
preventative maintenance and any needed repairs to keep the asset in working
condition. It is necessary to have a responsible person available for questions
that arise during a physical inventory or when someone wants to borrow the
asset. The steward ensures that the asset is used for the purpose for which it
was acquired and that there is no personal or unauthorized use. In addition,
the steward should report any property damage or theft.
(Ord. No. 2003-27, 11-16-03)
Sec. 2-232 Bidding Practices and Submission Requirements.
   (a)   Bid Submission Requirements. Contractors proposing to submit bids on
any Town of Dyer ("Town") project estimated to be at least two hundred thousand
dollars ($200,000.00) or more shall, prior to the opening of bids, submit a
statement made under oath and subject to perjury laws, on a form designated by
the Town which shall include:
      (1)   A copy of a print-out of the Indiana Secretary of State's on-line
records for the bidder dated within sixty (60) days of the submission of said
document showing that the bidder is in existence, current with the Indiana
Secretary of State's Business Entity Reports, and eligible for a certificate of
good standing. If the bidder is au individual, sole proprietor or partnership,
this subsection shall not apply;
      (2)   A list identifying all former business names;
      (3)   Any determinations by a court or governmental agency for violations
of federal, state, or local laws including, but not limited to, violations of
contracting or antitrust laws, tax or licensing laws, environmental laws, the
Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), or federal Davis-Bacon and related
Acts;
      (4)   A statement on staffing capabilities, including labor sources;
      (5)   Evidence of participation in apprenticeship and training programs,
applicable to the work to be performed on the project, which are approved by
and registered with the United States Department of Labor's Office of
Apprenticeship, or its successor organization. The required evidence includes a
copy of all applicable apprenticeship certificates or standards for these
training programs;
      (6)   A copy of a written plan for employee drug testing that:
         (i)   covers all employees of the bidder who will perform work on the
public works project; and
         (ii)   meets, or exceeds, the requirements set forth in I.C. 4-13-18-
5 or I.C. 4-13-18-6;
      (7)   The name and description of the management experience of each of
the bidder's project managers and superintendents that bidder intends to assign
to work on the project;
      (8)   Proof of any professional or trade license required by law for any
trade or specialty area in which bidder is seeking a contract award; and
disclosure of any suspension or revocation within the previous five (5) years
of any professional or trade license held by the company, or of any director,
officer or manager employed by the bidder;
      (9)   Evidence that the contractor is utilizing a surety company which is
on the United States Department of Treasury's Listing of Approved Sureties;
      (10)   A written statement of any federal, state or local tax liens or
tax delinquencies owed to any federal, state or local taxing body in the last
five (5) years;
      (11)   A statement that individuals who will perform work on the public
works project on behalf of the bidder will be properly classified as either:
         (i)   an employee; or
         (ii)   an independent contractor, under all applicable state and
federal laws and local ordinances; and
      (12)   A list of projects of similar size and scope of work that the
bidder has performed in the State of Indiana within three (3) years prior to
the date on which the bid is due.
The Town reserves the right to demand supplemental information from the bidder,
additional verification of any of the information provided by the bidder, and
may also conduct random inquiries of the bidder's current and prior customers.
   (b)   Post-Bid Submissions from Subcontractors.
      (1)   All bidders shall provide a written list that discloses the name,
address, and type of work for each first-tier subcontractor from whom the
bidder has accepted a bid and/or intends to hire on any part of the public
works project, including individuals performing work as independent
contractors, within five (5) business days after the date the bids are due.
      (2)   In addition, each such first-tier subcontractor shall be required
to adhere to the requirements of division (a) above as though it were bidding
directly to the Town, except that first-tier subcontractors shall submit the
required information (including the name, address, and type of work for each of
their first-tier subcontractors) to the successful bidder no later than five
(5) business days after the subcontractor's first day of work on the public
works project and the bidder shall then forward said information to the Town.
Payment shall be withheld from any first-tier subcontractor who fails to timely
submit said information until such information is submitted and approved by the
Town.
      (3)   Upon request, the Town may require any second and lower-tier
subcontractors to provide the required information (including name, address,
type of work on the project and the name of the higher-tier subcontractor).
Payments shall be withheld from any second or lower-tiered contractor who fails
to timely submit this information until this information is submitted and
approved by the Town. Additionally, the Town may require the successful bidder
and relevant subcontractor to remove the second or lower-tier subcontractor
from the project and replace it with a responsive and responsible
subcontractor.
      (4)   Failure of a subcontractor to submit the required information shall
not disqualify the successful bidder from performing work on the project and
shall not constitute a contractual default and/or breach by the successful
bidder. However, the Town may withhold all payments otherwise due for work
performed by a subcontractor, until the subcontractor submits the required
information and the Town approves such information. The Town may also require
that successful bidder to remove the subcontractor to the project and replace
it with a responsive and responsible subcontractor.
      (5)   The disclosure of a subcontractor ("disclosed subcontractor") by a
bidder or a subcontractor shall not create any rights in the disclosed
subcontractor. Thus, a bidder and/or subcontractor may substitute another
subcontractor ("substitute subcontractor") for a disclosed subcontractor by
giving the Town written notice of the name, address, and type of work of the
substitute subcontractor. The substitute subcontractor is subject to all of the
obligations of a subcontractor under this ordinance.
   (c)   Validity of Pre-Qualification Classification.
      (1)   Upon designation by the Town that a contractor's or subcontractor's
submission in anticipation of a bid is complete and timely, and upon any
further consideration deemed necessary by the Town, the contractor or
subcontractor may be pre-qualified for future Town public works projects. A
contractor's classification as "qualified" shall exempt the contractor or sub-
contractor from the comprehensive submission requirements contained herein for
a period of twelve (12) months. Thereafter, contractors or subcontractors who
are pre-qualified must submit a complete application for continuation of "pre-
qualified" standing, on a form provided by the Town, (also referred to as the
"short form") by December 31 for the upcoming calendar year. Failure by any
pre-qualified contractor or subcontractor to timely submit its complete
application for continuation of "pre-qualified" standing shall result in
automatic removal of the designation, effective January 1 of the upcoming year.
However, the "removed" contractor or subcontractor shall still be permitted to
bid on Town public works projects.
      (2)   Any material changes to the contractor's status, at any time, shall
be reported in writing within ten (10) days of its occurrence to the Town. The
pre-qualification designation is solely within the discretion of the Town and
the Town specifically reserves the right to change or revoke the designation
for a stated written reason(s).
      (3)   Denial of pre-qualification shall be in writing and shall be
forwarded to the contractor within seven (7) working days of such decision. Any
contractor denied or losing pre-qualification status may request
reconsideration of the decision by submitting such request in writing to the
Town within five (5) business days of receipt of notice of denial.
   (d)   Incomplete Submissions by Bidders. It is the sole responsibility of
the potential bidder to comply with all submission requirements applicable to
the bidder in division (a) above by no later than the public bid opening date
and time. Post-bid submissions must be submitted in accordance with division
(b) above. Submissions deemed inadequate, incomplete, or untimely by the Town
may result in the automatic disqualification of the bid.
   (e)   Responsive and Responsible Bidder Determination. The Town, after
review of complete and timely submissions, shall, in its sole discretion, after
taking into account all information in the submission requirements, determine
whether a bidder is responsive and responsible. The Town specifically reserves
the right to utilize all information provided in the contractor or
subcontractor's submission or any information obtained by the Town through its
own independent verification of the information provided by the contractor.
   (f)   Certified Payroll.
      (1)   For projects in which the cost is at least two hundred thousand
dollars ($200,000.00), the successful bidder and all subcontractors working on
a public works project shall submit a certified payroll report utilizing the
federal form now known as a WH-347 which must be prepared on a weekly basis and
submitted to the Town within ten (10) calendar days after the end of each week
in which the bidder or subcontractor performed its work on the public works
project. These certified payroll reports shall identify the job title and craft
of each employee on the project, e.g. journeyman electrician or apprentice
electrician. In the event any contractor or subcontractor uses independent
contractors to perform work on the project, such individual must be identified
on the WH-347 form with the same information as is required for employees.
      (2)   The Town may withhold payment due for work performed by a bidder if
the bidder fails to timely submit its certified payroll reports until such time
as such certified payroll reports are submitted. The Town may also withhold
payment due for work performed by a subcontractor if the subcontractor fails to
timely submit its certified payroll reports until such time as such certified
payroll reports are submitted. The Town shall not withhold payment to a bidder
for work performed by the bidder or for work performed by subcontractors who
have submitted their certified payroll reports, because one (1) or more other
subcontractors failed to timely submit their certified payroll reports.
   (g)   Public Records. All information submitted by a bidder or a
subcontractor pursuant to this Ordinance, including certified payrolls, are
public records subject to review pursuant to the Indiana Access to Public
Records law (I.C. 5-14-3).
   (h)   Penalties for False, Deceptive, or Fraudulent Statements/Information.
Any bidder that willfully makes, or willfully causes to be made, a false,
deceptive or fraudulent statement, or willfully submits false, deceptive or
fraudulent information in connection with any submission made to the Town shall
be disqualified from bidding on all Town projects for a period of three (3)
years.
(Ord. No. 2016-08, 6-23-16)
Sec. 2-233 Internal Control Policies.
   (a)   The Town hereby adopts the Internal Control Policy attached to
Ordinance No. 2016-07 as Exhibit A and it is incorporated by reference as if
fully set forth herein.
   (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Administrator are directed to ensure that
all personnel receive training concerning the internal control procedures
adopted and approved herein prior to June 30, 2016.
   (c)   The Town hereby adopts a materiality threshold of five hundred dollars
($500.00) for purposes of internal control procedures adopted and approved
herein.
(Ord. No. 2016-07, 5-12-16)
Sec. 2-234 Negotiation of Payment Plans for Past Due Accounts.
   (a)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office is authorized to negotiate a payment plan
for any past due accounts owed to the Town, provided payments under such a plan
be no less frequently than monthly; and
   (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s office is not authorized to waive any penalties
and late fees on such past due accounts. (Res. No. 2021-13, 4-8-21)
Sec. 2-235 through Sec. 2-249 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 10. TAXATION.
Sec. 2-250 Municipal Motor Vehicle License Excise Wheel Surtax and Municipal
Wheel Tax.
   (a)   Municipal Motor Vehicle License Excise Wheel Surtax.
      (1)   Creation of Fund. There is hereby created a Municipal Surtax Fund,
which shall be a non-reverting fund. Revenues received from the Department of
Motor Vehicles from taxes imposed under this section shall be deposited into
the Fund.
      (2)   Tax rates. Effective January 1, 2017, and in accordance with I.C.
6-3.5-10-2(c) of the Excise Tax Act, being I.C. 6-3.5-10 et seq. (the "Act"),
the surtax shall be imposed at the following rates:
         a.   passenger vehicles: $25 per year;
         b.   motorcycles: $25 per year;
         c.    trucks with a declared gross weight that does not exceed eleven
thousand (11,000) pounds: $25 per year;
         d.   motor-driven cycles: $25 per year.
      (3)   Vehicle Definitions. The definitions set forth in the Act shall
apply to this section.
      (4)   Uses of Fund. Funds in the Municipal Surtax Fund may be used for
one (1) or more of the following purposes:
         a.   to construct, reconstruct, repair, or maintain streets and roads
under the Town's jurisdiction;
         b.   for the Town's contribution to obtain a grant from the local road
and bridge matching grant fond pursuant to I.C. 8-23-30.
      (5)   Transportation Asset Management Plan. The Town Administrator shall
prepare a Transportation Asset Management Plan, approved by the Indiana
Department of Transportation, as required by I.C. 6-3.5-10-2(e) and I.C. 6-3.5-
11-2(c) and submit a copy of such plan to the Town Council on or before August
1 of each year.
      (6)   Accounting of Fund. On or before August 1 of each year, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall provide the Town Council an estimate of the surtax revenues to
be received by the Town under this section during the next calendar year. The
Town shall include the estimated sutax revenues in the Town's budget estimate
for the calendar year.
   (b)   Municipal Wheel Tax.
      (1)   Creation of Fund. There is hereby created a Municipal Wheel Tax
Fund, which shall be a non-reverting fund. Revenues received from the
Department of Motor Vehicles from taxes imposed under this section shall be
deposited into the Fund.
      (2)   Tax Rates. Effective January 1, 2017, and in accordance with I.C.
6-3.5-11-2(d) of the Excise Tax Act, being I.C. 6-3.5-10 et seq. (the "Act"),
the wheel tax shall be imposed on the following non-exempt vehicles at the
following rates:
         a.   buses: $40 per year;
         b.   recreational vehicles: $40 per year;
         c.   semitrailers: $40 per year;
         d.    tractors: $40 per year;
         e.   trailers: $40 per year;
         f.   trucks: $40 per year.
      (3)   Vehicle Definitions. The definitions set forth in the Act shall
apply to this section.
      (4)   Uses of Fund. Funds in the Municipal Wheel Tax Fund may be used for
one (1) or more of the following purposes:
         a.   to construct, reconstruct, repair, or maintain streets and roads
under the Town's jurisdiction;
         b.   as a contribution to an authority established under I.C. 36-7-23;
         c.    for the Town's contribution to obtain a grant from the local
road and bridge matching grant fund under I.C. 8-23-30.
      (5)   Transportation Asset Management Plan. The Town Administrator shall
prepare a Transportation Asset Management Plan as required in division (a)
above.
      (6)   Accounting of Fund. On or before August 1 of each year, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall provide the Town Council an estimate of the wheel tax revenues
to be received by the Town under this section during the next calendar year.
The Town shall include the estimated wheel tax revenues in the Town's budget
estimate for the calendar year.
(Ord. No. 2016-16, 6-23-16)
Sec. 2-251 through Sec. 2-259 Reserved for Future Use.
CHAPTER 3
TOWN LEGISLATIVE AND JUDICIAL BRANCHES.
Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 25-05,
adopted 5-15-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
ARTICLE 1. TOWN COUNCIL.
Sec. 3-1   Five (5) Member Council.
Sec. 3-2   Election of Council Members.
Sec. 3-3   Five Wards.
Sec. 3-4   Selection of Council President and Vice President.
Sec. 3-5   Quorum.
Sec. 3-6   When Majority Vote Required.
Sec. 3-7   When Two-Thirds (2/3) Vote Required.
Sec. 3-8   Town Clerk-Treasurer Authorized to Break Ties.
Sec. 3-9   When Ordinance Takes Effect.
Sec. 3-10   Regular and Special Meetings of the Town Council.
Sec. 3-11   Powers of the Town Council.
Sec. 3-12   Order of Business at Town Council Meetings.
Sec. 3-13   Rules of Order.
Sec. 3-14   Compensation of the Town Council.
Sec. 3-15   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 3-16   Council Filing Deadline.
Sec. 3-17   Readings of Ordinances and Resolutions.
Sec. 3-18    Policies for Electronic Participation in Meetings of the Town.
Sec. 3-19   Rules of Conduct for Town Council Meetings.
Sec. 3-20 through 3-29 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. REGULATIONS ADDRESSING ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS.
Sec. 3-30   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 3-31   Right To Inspect And Copy.
Sec. 3-32 through 3-35 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 3-36   Copying Fee.
Sec. 3-37    Conditions for Use of Town Information For Commercial Purposes.
Sec. 3-38 through Sec. 3-41 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3.   PROCEDURES FOR THE DISPOSITION OF SEIZED PROPERTY AND CASH FROM
CIVIL FORFEITURE ACTIONS.
Sec. 3-42   Property Pursuant to a Search Warrant.
Sec. 3-43   Confiscated Weapons.
Sec. 3-44   Confiscated Property Used to Facilitate Violation of Criminal
Statute.
Sec. 3-45   Commingling Monies Prohibited.
Sec. 3-46 through Sec. 3-55 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. TOWN COURT.
Sec. 3-56   Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 1. TOWN COUNCIL. 1
                        
1   I.C., §§ 36-5-2-1 through 36-5-2-11, address the Town legislative body and
executive.
Sec. 3-1 Five (5) Member Council. 2
The Town Council of the Town of Dyer shall be five (5) in number and shall be
elected by the voters at large.
(Ord. No. 89-42, § 1, 11-16-89)
                        
2   I.C., § 36-5-2-2, addresses the Town Council.
Sec. 3-2 Election of Council Members. 3
The Council Members from wards 2, 4, and 5 shall be elected in 1990 and each
four (4) years thereafter. The Council Members from Wards 1 and 3 shall be
elected in 1991 and each four (4) years thereafter.
(Ord. No. 89-42, § 1, 11-16-89)
                        
3   I.C., § 36-5-2-5, addresses legislative districts.
Sec. 3-3 Five Wards. 4
   (a)   The Town of Dyer is redistricted into the following five (5) Wards:
   Ward No. 1:
      Beginning at the intersection of Main Street and Calumet Avenue, also
being the Northeast corner of Section 1, Township 3 5 North, Range 10 West of
the Second Principle Meridian;
      Thence: Westerly along the centerline of Main Street also being the North
line of said Section 1, a distance of4488 feet to the Northwest comer of said
Section 1;
      Thence: Southerly along the West line of said Section 1, a distance of
3724 feet to the centerline of Heritage Drive;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of Heritage Drive, a distance of
1220 feet;
      Thence: Southerly along Cambridge Lane, a distance of 490 feet to the
centerline of Heritage Drive;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of Heritage Drive, a distance of
613 feet to the centerline of Sheffield Avenue;
      Thence: Southerly along the centerline of Sheffield Avenue, a distance of
1012 feet to the centerline of 213th Street also being the South line of said
Section 1;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of 213th Street also being the
South line of said Section 1, a distance of2640 feet to the centerline of
Calumet Avenue also being the Southeast corner of said Section 1;
      Thence: Northerly along the centerline of Calumet Avenue also being the
East line of said Section 1, a distance of 5277 feet to the point of beginning.
   Ward No. 2:
      Beginning at the intersection of 213th Street and Calumet Avenue, also
being the Northeast corner of Section 12, Township 35 North, Range 10 West of
the Second Principle Meridian;
      Thence: Westerly along the centerline of 213th Street also being the
North line of said Section 12, a distance of 2,640 feet to the centerline of
Sheffield Avenue;
      Thence: Northerly along the centerline of Sheffield Avenue, a distance of
1,012 feet to the centerline of Heritage Drive;
      Thence: Westerly along the centerline of Heritage Drive, a distance of
613 feet to the centerline of Cambridge Lane;
      Thence: Northerly along Cambridge Lane, a distance of 490 feet;
      Thence: Westerly along the centerline of Heritage Drive, a distance of
1,220 feet to the West line of Section 1 of Township 35 North, Range 10 West of
the Second Principle Meridian;
      Thence: Southerly along the West line of said Section 1, a distance of
1,573 feet to the Southwest corner of said Section 1, also being the Northwest
corner of said Section 12;
      Thence: Southerly along the West line of said Section 12, a distance of
5,282 feet to the Southwest corner of said Section 12, also being the Northwest
corner of Section 13, Township 35 North, Range 10 West of the Second Principle
Meridian;
      Thence: Southerly along the West line of said Section 13, a distance of
3,970 feet to the Southwest comer of Lot 13 of Dyer Estates 1st Addition;
      Thence: Easterly along the South boundary line of said Lot 13, a distance
of 160 feet to the centerline of Forest Park Drive;
      Thence: Northerly along the centerline of Forest Park Drive, a distance
of 1,694 feet to the centerline of Berens Road;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of Berens Road, a distance of 1,413
feet to the centerline of Hart Street;
      Thence: Southeasterly along the centerline of Hart Street, a distance of
217 feet to the extended centerline of Cherry Hill Road;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of Cherry Hill Road, a distance of
1,109 feet;
      Thence: Northeasterly continuing along the centerline of Cherry Hill
Road, a distance of 1,601 feet to the centerline of Hickory Drive;
      Thence: Southeasterly along the centerline of Hickory Drive, a distance
of 510 feet to the extended intersection of the Southeast boundary line of Lot
53 of Pheasant Hills Addition Unit Number 5;
      Thence: Northeasterly along said extended Southeast boundary line of Lot
53, a distance of 230 feet to the centerline of the Monon Railroad Right-of-
Way;
      Thence: Northwesterly along said Monon Railroad Right-of-Way, a distance
of 2,565 feet to the centerline of U.S. 30;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of U.S. 30, a distance of 1,266
feet to the centerline of Calumet Avenue also being the East line of said
Section 13;
      Thence: Northerly along the centerline of Calumet Avenue also being the
East line of said Section 13, a distance of 275 feet to the Northeast corner of
said Section 13 also being the Southeast corner of said Section 12;
      Thence: Northerly along the centerline of Calumet Avenue also being the
East line of said Section 12, a distance of 5,278 feet to the point of
beginning,
Ward No. 3:
      Beginning at the intersection of U.S. 30 and Calumet Avenue, said point
being on the West line of Section 18, Township 35 North, Range 9 West of the
Second Principle Meridian;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of U.S. 30, a distance of 5,241
feet to the East line of said Section 18;
      Thence: Southerly along the East line of said Section 18, a distance of
4,458 feet to the centerline of 77th Avenue also being the Southeast corner of
said Section 18;
      Thence: Westerly along the centerline of 77th Avenue also being the South
line of said Section 18, a distance of 5,183 feet to the Southwest corner of
said Section 18 also being the Southeast corner of Section 13, Township 35
North, Range 10 West of the Second Principle Meridian;
      Thence: Westerly continuing along the centerline of 77th Avenue also
being the South line of said Section 13, a distance of 2,641 feet to the
centerline of Hart Street;
      Thence: Northerly along the centerline of Hart Street, a distance of 829
feet to the centerline of Heather Lane;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of Heather Lane, a distance of 364
to the centerline of Hillside Drive;
      Thence: Southerly along the centerline of Hillside Drive, a distance of
287 feet;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of Hillside Drive, a distance of
669 feet;
      Thence: Northeasterly along the centerline of Hillside Drive, a distance
of 338 feet to the centerline of Sycamore Drive;
      Thence: Northerly along the centerline of Sycamore Drive, a distance of
2,269 feet to the centerline of Cherry Hill Road;
      Thence: Northeasterly along the centerline of Cherry Hill Road, a
distance of 1,320 feet to the centerline of Hickory Drive;
      Thence: Southeasterly along the centerline of Hickory Drive, a distance
of 510 feet to the extended intersection of the Northwest boundary line of Lot
21 of Pheasant Hills Addition Unit Number 4 subdivision;
      Thence: Northeasterly along said extended Northwest boundary line of said
Lot 21, a distance of 230 feet to the centerline of Monon Railroad Right-of-
Way;
      Thence: Northwesterly along said Monon Railroad Right-of-Way, a distance
of 2,565 feet to the centerline of U.S. 30;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of U.S. 30, a distance of 1,266
feet to the point of beginning.
   Ward No. 4:
      Beginning at the intersection of 77th Avenue and Hart Street, said point
being on the South line of Section 13, township 35 North, Range 10 West of the
Second Principle Meridian;
      Thence: Northerly along the centerline of Hart Street, a distance of 829
feet to the centerline of Heather Lane;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of Heather Lane, a distance of 364
to the centerline of Hillside Drive;
      Thence: Southerly along the centerline of Hillside Drive, a distance of
287 feet;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of Hillside Drive, a distance of
669 feet;
      Thence: Northeasterly along the centerline of Hillside Drive, a distance
of 338 feet to the centerline of Sycamore Drive;
      Thence: Northerly along the centerline of Sycamore Drive, a distance of
2,269 feet to the centerline of Cherry Hill Road;
      Thence: Westerly along the centerline of Cherry Hill Road, a distance of
1,390 feet to the centerline of Hart Street;
      Thence: Northwesterly along the centerline of Hart Street, a distance of
217 feet to the centerline of Berens Road;
      Thence: Westerly along the centerline of Berens Road, a distance of 1,413
feet to the centerline of Forest Park Drive;
      Thence: Southerly along the centerline of Forest Park Drive, a distance
of 1,694 feet to the extended intersection of the North boundary line of Lot 39
of Chateau Woods subdivision;
      Thence: Westerly along the extended North boundary line of said Lot 39, a
distance of 160 feet to the Northwest corner of said Lot 39 also being on the
West line of said Section 13;
      Thence: Southerly along the West line of said Section 13, a distance of
1,312 feet to the Southwest corner of said Section 13 also being the Northwest
corner of Section24, Township 35 North, Range 10 West of the Second Principle
Meridian;
      Thence: Southerly along the West line of said Section 24, a distance of
1,326 feet to the Southwest corner of Autumn Chase Phase 2 subdivision;
      Thence: Easterly along the South boundary line of said Autumn Chase Phase
2 subdivision, a distance of 420 feet to the Northwest corner of High Point
Trails Unit 1 subdivision;
      Thence: Southerly along the West boundary line of said High Point Trails
Unit 1 subdivision, a distance of 588 feet to the Southwest corner of said High
Point Trails Unit 1 subdivision also being the Northwest corner of High Point
Trails Unit 2 subdivision;
      Thence: Southerly along the West boundary line of said High Point Trails
Unit 2 subdivision, a distance of 420 feet to the Southwest corner of said High
Point Trails Unit 2 subdivision also being the Northwest corner of High Point
Trails Unit 3 subdivision;
      Thence: Southerly along the West boundary line of said High Point Trails
Unit 3 subdivision, a distance of 369 feet to the South Right-of-Way line of
81st Avenue;
      Thence: Westerly along the South Right-of-Way line of 81st Avenue, a
distance of 334 feet;
      Thence: Southerly along the East Right- of-Way line of Steger Road, a
distance of539 feet;
      Thence: Westerly along the South Right-of-Way line of Steger Road, a
distance of 80 feet to the West line of said Section 24;
      Thence: Southerly along the West line of said Section 24, a distance of
2,028 feet to the Southwest corner of said Section 24;
      Thence: Easterly along the South line of said Section 24, a distance of
697 feet to the Northwest corner of Lot 49 of Highpoint Prairie Unit 3
subdivision;
      Thence: Southerly along the boundary line of said Highpoint Prairie Unit
3 subdivision, a distance of 332 feet to the Southwest corner of Lot 47 of said
of Highpoint Prairie Unit 3 subdivision;
      Thence: Easterly along the boundary line of said Highpoint Prairie Unit 3
subdivision, a distance of 1,320 feet to the centerline of Sheffield Avenue;
      Thence: Northerly along the centerline of Sheffield Avenue, a distance of
716 feet to a corner of Lot 2 of Sheffield Acres 2nd Addition subdivision;
      Thence: Easterly along the boundary line of said Lot 2 of Sheffield Acres
2nd Addition subdivision, a distance of 425 feet;
      Thence: Southerly along the boundary line of said Lot 2 of Sheffield
Acres 2nd Addition subdivision, a distance of 230 feet;
      Thence: Westerly along the boundary line of said Lot 2 of Sheffield Acres
2nd Addition subdivision, a distance of 51 feet;
      Thence: Southerly along the boundary line of said Lot 2 of Sheffield
Acres 2nd Addition subdivision, a distance of 165 feet to the South line of
said Section 24;
      Thence: Easterly along said South line of said Section 24, a distance of
1,154 feet;
      Thence: Northerly, a distance of 994 feet;
      Thence: Easterly, a distance of 1,318 feet to a point on the East line of
said Section 24;
      Thence: Northerly along said East line of said Section 24, a distance of
330 feet;
      Thence: Westerly, a distance of 1,317 feet;
      Thence: Southerly a distance of 160 feet;
      Thence: Westerly, a distance of 945 feet;
      Thence: Southerly a distance of 345 feet;
      Thence: Westerly, a distance of 375 feet to the centerline of Sheffield
Avenue;
      Thence: Northerly along the centerline of Sheffield Avenue, a distance of
1,829 feet to the centerline of 81st Avenue point also on the South line of the
North half of said Section 24;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of 81st Avenue also being said
South line of the North half of Section 24, a distance of 2,636 feet to the
Southeast corner of said North half of Section 24;
      Thence: Northerly along the East line of said Section 24, a distance of
2,650 feet to the centerline of 77th Avenue also being the Northeast corner of
said Section 24;
      Thence: Westerly along the centerline of 77th Avenue also being the North
line of said Section 24, a distance of 2,641 feet to the point of beginning.
   Ward No. 5:
      Beginning at the intersection of Main Street and Calumet Avenue also
being the Northwest corner of Section 6, Township 35 North, Range 9 West of the
Second Principle Meridian;
      Thence: Southerly along the centerline of Calumet Avenue also being the
West line of said Section 6, a distance of 5,277 feet to the centerline 213th
Street also being the Southwest corner of said Section 6 also being the
Northwest corner of Section 7, Township 35 North, Range 9 West of the Second
Principle Meridian;
      Thence: Southerly along the centerline of Calumet Avenue also being the
West line of said Section 7, a distance of 5,278 feet to the Southwest corner
of said Section 7 also being the Northwest corner of Section 18, Township 35
North, Range 9 West of the Second Principle Meridian;
      Thence: Southerly along the centerline of Calumet Avenue also being the
West line of said Section 18, a distance of 275 feet to the centerline of U.S.
30;
      Thence: Easterly along the centerline of U.S. 30, a distance of 5,241
feet to the East line of said Section 18;
      Thence: Northerly along the East line of said Section 18, a distance of
822 feet to the Northwest corner of said Section 18 also being the Southwest
corner of said Section 7;
      Thence: Northerly along the East line of said Section 7, a distance of
5,291 feet to the centerline of 213th Street also being the Northeast corner of
said Section 7 also being the Southeast corner of said Section 6;
      Thence: Northerly along the East line of said Section 6, a distance of
229 feet to the South boundary line of Briar Ridge Country Club Addition, Unit
9 subdivision;
      Thence: Easterly along said South boundary line of Briar Ridge Country
Club Addition, Unit 9 subdivision, a distance of 984 feet to the Southeast
corner of said Briar Ridge Country Club Addition, Unit 9 subdivision;
      Thence: Northerly along the East boundary line of said Briar Ridge
Country Club Addition, Unit 9 subdivision, a distance of 460 feet to the
Northeast corner of said Briar Ridge Country Club Addition, Unit 9 subdivision;
      Thence: Northerly, a distance of 581 feet to the boundary line of Briar
Ridge Country Club Addition Unit One subdivision;
      Thence: Northwesterly along the boundary line of said Briar Ridge Country
Club Addition Unit One subdivision, a distance of 1,218 feet; Thence
Northwesterly along the boundary line of said Briar Ridge Country Club Addition
Unit One subdivision, a distance of 136 feet;
      Thence: Northwesterly along the boundary line of said Briar Ridge Country
Club, Addition Unit One subdivision, a distance of 306 feet;
      Thence: Northerly along the boundary line of said Briar Ridge Country
Club Addition Unit One subdivision, a distance of 193 feet;
      Thence: Northeasterly along the boundary line of said Briar Ridge Country
Club Addition Unit One subdivision, a distance of 288 feet;
      Thence: Northeasterly along the boundary line of said Briar Ridge Country
Club Addition Unit One subdivision, a distance of 389 feet;
      Thence: Northerly, a distance of 212 feet to the corner of Lot 5 of Briar
Ridge Country Club Addition Unit One “A” subdivision;
      Thence: Northerly along the West boundary line of said Briar Ridge
Country Club Addition Unit One “A” subdivision, a distance of 610 feet to the
boundary line of Springwood Condominiums Phase One subdivision;
      Thence: Westerly along the boundary line of said Springwood Condominiums
Phase One subdivision, a distance of 170 feet;
      Thence: Northwesterly along the boundary line of said Springwood
Condominiums Phase One subdivision, a distance of 670 feet;
      Thence: Northwesterly along the boundary line of said Springwood
Condominiums Phase One subdivision, a distance of 215 feet;
      Thence: Northerly along the boundary line of said Springwood Condominiums
Phase One subdivision, a distance of 829 feet to the North Right-of-Way line of
St. Andrews Drive;
      Thence: Southeasterly along said North Right-of-Way line of St. Andrews
Drive, a distance of 52 feet to a corner of Briar Ridge Country Club Addition
Unit 7 Block 2 subdivision;
      Thence: Northerly along the boundary line of said Briar Ridge Country
Club Addition Unit 7 Block 2 subdivision, a distance of 61 feet;
      Thence: Northwesterly along the boundary line of said Briar Ridge Country
Club Addition Unit 7 Block 2 subdivision, a distance of 90 feet to the boundary
line of Briar Ridge Country Club Addition, Unit 17 subdivision;
      Thence: Northerly along the boundary line of said Briar Ridge Country
Club Addition, Unit 17 subdivision, a distance of 144 feet;
      Thence: Northeasterly along the boundary line of said Briar Ridge Country
Club Addition, Unit 17 subdivision line, a distance of 315 feet;
      Thence: Easterly along the boundary line of said Briar Ridge Country Club
Addition, Unit 17 subdivision line, a distance of358 feet to a corner of said
Briar Ridge Country Club Addition, Unit 17 subdivision point also being on the
East line of said Section 6;
      Thence: Northerly along the East line of said Section 6, a distance of
200 feet to the centerline of Main Street also being the Northeast corner of
said Section 6;
      Thence: Westerly along the centerline of Main Street also being the North
line of said Section 6, a distance of 5,045 feet to the point of beginning.
(Ord. No. 92-36 § 3,12-22-92; Ord. No. 94-1, 1-11-94; Ord. No. 2001-16, 9-18-
01; Ord. No. 2001-27, 10-16-01; Ord. No. 2002-27, 10-15-02; Ord. No. 2012-11,
9-13-12)
   (b)   The Ward District map is on file in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer,
available for public inspection during regular business hours, and is
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. No. 92-36, 12-12-92; Ord. No. 9-1, 1-11-94)
   (c)   As land is annexed to the Town of Dyer by proper ordinance, it shall
be specifically assigned to a specific ward.
   (d)   The results of the 2020 census revealed a population imbalance between
the five wards of greater than ten percent, requiring redistricting to equalize
populations among the wards.
(Ord. No. 2022-34, 12-21-22)
                        
4   I.C., § 36-5-2-4.1, pertains to the division of Towns into districts, and
I.C., § 36-5-1-10.1 pertains to the composition of districts.
Sec. 3-4 Selection of Council President and Vice President. 5
The Council shall select one (1) of its members to be its President and one (1)
of its members to be its Vice-President for a definite term, which may not
exceed such member's term of office as a member of the legislative body. The
President of the Town Council is the Town Executive. The Vice-President of the
Town Council shall serve as Executive in his or her absence, sickness,
inability or refusal to serve.
                        
5   I.C., § 36-5-2-7, addresses the selection of a President, and I.C., § 36-5-
2-2, addresses the Town Executive.
Sec. 3-5 Quorum. 6
A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a quorum.
                        
6   I.C., § 36-5-2-9.2, defines a quorum of the Council.
Sec. 3-6 When Majority Vote Required.
A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance unless a
greater vote is required by statute. A majority vote means at least a majority
vote of all the elected members.
Sec. 3-7 When Two-Thirds (2/3) Vote  Required. 7
A two-thirds (2/3) vote, with unanimous consent of the members present, is
required to pass an ordinance on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced. A two-thirds (2/3) vote means at least a two-thirds (2/3)
vote of all the elected members.
(Am. Ord. No. 2020-08, 8-13-20)
                        
7   I.C., § 36-5-2-9.8, addresses votes of Council.
Sec. 3-8 Town Clerk-Treasurer Authorized to Break Ties. 8
The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council. Whenever there is a
tie vote for any particular issue, the Clerk-Treasurer is an ex-officio member
for the purpose of casting the deciding vote to break a tie.
                        
8   I.C., § 36-5-28, authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to vote in case of a tie.
Sec. 3-9 When Ordinance Takes Effect. 9
An ordinance, order, or resolution passed by the Town Council becomes effective
when signed by the President of the Town Council, or the Vice-President if
required, and attested to by the Clerk-Treasurer unless the ordinance, order,
or resolution by its own terms establishes the date upon which it takes effect.
If required by statute, an adopted ordinance, order, or resolution must be
promulgated or published before it takes effect.
                            
9   I.C., § 36-5-2-10, addresses the adoption of ordinances, orders,
resolutions and their publication.
Sec. 3-10 Regular and Special Meetings of the Town Council. 10
   (a)   The regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at the Town
Hall in the Town of Dyer on such days and at such times as established by the
Town Council in an annual schedule of meetings to be adopted and published
prior to January first of each year.
   (b)   In all cases where a special meeting or called meeting is needed, at
least forty eight (48) hours written notice shall be given to the Town Council,
Clerk-Treasurer, and the public, pursuant to Indiana Code.
   (c)   Special or called meetings may be scheduled by the President of the
Council, or in his/her absence, sickness, inability or refusal to schedule such
meeting, by the Vice President of the Council, and in his/her absence,
sickness, inability or refusal to schedule such meeting, then by a majority of
the Council when deemed necessary. The President and Vice President, in the
absence of the President, may by verbal notice at a public meeting when all
members of the Council are present, call a special meeting of the Council,
except when the statutes of Indiana forbid such action. In all cases where
provisions of the law prescribe the method of scheduling, the provisions must
be strictly followed.
   (d)   Executive sessions shall be conducted in strict compliance with
Indiana Code, § 5-14-1.5-6.
(Am. Ord. No. 2020-08, 8-13-20)
                          
10   I.C., § 5-14-1.5-1, et seq., addresses the Indiana Open Door Law.
Sec. 3-11 Powers of the Town Council. 11
   The Council may:
   (a)   adopt Ordinances and Resolutions for the performance of functions of
the Town;
   (b)   purchase, hold, and convey any interest in property, for the use of
the Town;
   (c)   adopt and use a common seal; and
   (d)   exercise all powers that are needed for the effective operation of
local governmental affairs.
                        
11 I.C., § 36-5-2-9, sets forth the powers of the legislative body.
Sec. 3-12 Order of Business at Town Council Meetings. 12
   The following order of business shall be utilized at Town Council meetings:
   1.   Call to Order.
   2.   Pledge of Allegiance.
   3.   Roll Call.
   4.   Citizen Input.
   5.   Consent Agenda that contains, but is not limited to: minutes, claims,
routine business items, reports, and correspondence.
   6.   Announcements.
   7.   Ordinances and Resolutions.
   8.   Old Business.
   9.   New Business.
   10.   Adjournment.
(Ord. No. 95-18, 6-13-95; Am. Ord. No. 2020-08, 8-13-20)
                                 
12 I.C., §§ 36-1-3-1 through 36-1-3-9, set forth "Home Rule Powers".
Sec. 3-13 Rules of Order.
   The most recent version of Robert's Rules of Order shall govern all meetings
of the Town Council, unless ordinance or statute provide otherwise.
Sec. 3-14 Compensation of the Town Council. 13
   (a)   The Town Council shall, by Ordinance, fix the compensation of its own
members.
   (b)   The compensation of an elected Town officer may not be changed in the
year for which it is fixed, nor may it be reduced below the amount fixed for
the previous year.
                                 
13 I.C., § 36-5-3-2, addresses compensation for Town Council members, and other
Town Employees.
Sec. 3-15 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 3-16 Council Filing Deadline.
   All proposed ordinances and resolutions shall be filed with the Town Manager
by 3:00 p.m. the Monday prior to a Town Council meeting if for a regular
meeting and a minimum of one (1) regular business day prior to a special
meeting.
(Am. Ord. No. 2020-08, 8-13-20)
Sec. 3-17 Readings of Ordinances and Resolutions.
   The public verbatim reading of each proposed ordinance or resolution is not
required. The President or his/her designee shall summarize the ordinance or
resolution prior to any vote on it. The adoption/rejection of any ordinance or
resolution shall be done pursuant to Indiana Code.
(Am. Ord. No. 2020-08, 8-13-20)
Sec. 3-18 Policies for Electronic Participation in Meetings of the Town.
   (a)   The procedures laid out in this section apply to any governing body of
the Town of Dyer, defined to include the Town Council and all Boards and
Commissions created by the Town Council, both existing now and as may be
created in the future.
   (b)   Members of the governing body may attend a meeting electronically
within the limits imposed by the Indiana Code, provided the number of members
physically present constitutes a quorum.
   (c)   Members of a governing body may attend a study session (or other
session at which no official action is taken) electronically, provided at least
one (1) member is physically present.
   (d)   The only meetings that all members of a governing body may attend
electronically are meetings during disaster emergency, as authorized by I.C. 5-
14-1.5-3.7.
   (e)   A member of the governing body must notify the head of the governing
body in writing no less than twenty-four (24) hours before the scheduled time
for the meeting that that member intends to attend the meeting electronically;
otherwise, the member may attend but may not speak or vote on any matter at the
meeting.
   (f)   Nothing in this section is intended to contradict any provision of
state statute. All terms with definitions as set forth in I.C. 5-14-1.5-2 have
the definitions contained in that statute.
(Ord. No. 2022-15, §§ 1 - 6, 8-17-22)
Sec. 3-19 Rules of Conduct For Town Council Meetings.
   (a)   These rules apply only to public meetings of the Dyer Town Council.
They do not apply to Town Council public hearings, study sessions, or executive
sessions or to the meeting of any other Town board or commission, which must
adopt their own rules for public comment.
   (b)   Public comment during Town Council meetings is as provided by Town
ordinance. The following rules apply to all meeting attendees providing public
comment:
      (1)   Every attendee must approach the podium before commenting;
      (2)   Every attendee must state his or her first and last name and the
street address of his or her primary residence before commenting;
      (3)   Only one attendee may comment at a time - the attendee at the
podium "has the floor" and may not be interrupted except by the Council
president to enforce these rules;
      (4)   Each comment is limited to three (3) minutes, which may be extended
for another two (2) minutes at the discretion of the Council president;
      (5)   Comments must be made in English, either directly or through an
interpreter;
      (6)   No profanity, obscenity, or threats of physical harm are permitted;
      (7)   Comments made before action items may address only action items on
the agenda for that meeting. Comments made during the "Any and All" agenda item
may address any matter within the Council's jurisdiction;
      (8)   Each attendee is allowed only one comment before action items and
one comment during the "Any and All" period;
      (9)   Attendees are reminded that the period is for "comment," not
questioning, and Council members are not obligated to answer any questions
posed to them.
   (c)   The following procedures govern enforcement of these rules and for
general maintenance of meeting decorum:
      (1)   For violation of any rule in division (b), the Council president
must provide an oral warning, and upon issuance of the third oral warning to an
attendee the president may order that attendee to cease commenting and leave
the podium or floor and may direct a law enforcement officer to remove the
attendee from the podium or floor if the attendee fails to comply with that
order;
      (2)   If any attendee attempts to comment without first stating his or
her name and address as provided above, the Council president may prevent that
attendee from commenting until the attendee provides the required information;
      (3)   If any attendee disrupts or attempts to disrupt the Council meeting
in any way, the Council president must provide an oral warning to that
attendee, and upon issuance of the third oral warning to an attendee the
president may order the attendee to leave the meeting and may direct a law
enforcement officer to remove the attendee if the attendee fails to comply with
that order;
      (4)   An oral warning issued under the previous subsection may issue to
both individual attendees and a specific group of attendees.
   (d)   Nothing in these rules prohibits law enforcement officers from taking
reasonable action to ensure the safety of all persons attending a Town Council
meeting.
   (e)   A copy of the rules must be posted at the entrance to the location of
every Town Council meeting and the copies of the agenda for every Town Council
meeting must include the following advertisement: “Please be aware of the rules
for attendees at Town Council meetings posted at the entrance of the location
of the meeting.”
(Res. 2024-24, §§ 1 - 4, 9-19-24)
Sec. 3-20 through 3-29 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. REGULATIONS ADDRESSING ACCESS TO PUBLIC RECORDS.
Sec. 3-30 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 3-31 Right To Inspect And Copy.
   Any person, during regular business hours of the Town, may inspect and copy
public records of the Town of Dyer. Any inspection and copying shall be done
pursuant to the provisions of between the hours of 9:00 A.M. and 4:00 P.M.,
Monday through Friday, except as provided by Indiana Code, §§ 5-14-3-1 through
5-14-3-10 as amended. A request for inspection and/or copying shall be in
writing and shall identify with reasonable particularity the record being
requested. Neither the Town nor any of its employees or agents may deny or
interfere with the exercise of the right of access to public records except as
authorized by statute. When there is a request is to only view public records,
a Town employee shall be present at all times while the public record is being
viewed. (Ord. No. 84-29, § 2, 7-10-84; Am. Ord. No. 2020-08, passed 8-13-20)
Sec. 3-32 through 3-35 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 3-36 Copying Fee.
Any person requesting a copy of a public record shall pay in advance to the
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town copying fees as authorized by Indiana Code, § 5-14-
3-8.
(Ord. No. 84-29, § 7, 7-10-84; Ord. No. 2003-13, 6-17-03; Am. Ord. No. 2020-08,
8-13-20)
Sec. 3-37 Conditions for Use of Town Information for Commercial Purposes.
   (a)   These procedures apply to all electronically stored information (as
defined in I.C. 5-14-3-3(d)) responsive to a public records request under I.C.
5-14-3-3.
   (b)   All persons submitting a public records request to the Town must
certify that they are not using the information obtained from their request for
commercial purposes, including to sell, advertise, or solicit the purchase of
merchandise, goods, or services, or sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver
the information obtained by the request to any other person for these purposes.
   (c)   Consistent with I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), any recipient of electronically
stored information in response to a public records request later determined by
the Town Council to have used the information contrary to the certification is
prohibited from receiving any further electronically stored information from
the Town.
   (d)   The Town Council may make its determination in the preceding section
only after:
      (1)   Providing a suspected violator with written notice of the violation
and the date, time, and location of the hearing;
      (2)   Holding a public hearing at which the suspected violator may be
present, present evidence, cross-examine witnesses, and be represented by
counsel; and
      (3)   Issuing written findings establishing the violation and imposing a
sanction.
   (e)   The Clerk-Treasurer’s Office is instructed to add to its forms for a
public records request the following section:
      I certify that I will not use any electronically stored information
received in response to this request for commercial purposes, including to
sell, advertise, or solicit the purchase of merchandise, goods, or services, or
sell, loan, give away, or otherwise deliver the information obtained by the
request to any other person for these purposes:
                                                                 
      (Signature)
(Ord. 2022-16, §§ 1 - 6, 8-17-22)
Sec. 3-38 through Sec. 3-41 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. PROCEDURES FOR THE DISPOSITION OF SEIZED PROPERTY AND CASH FROM
CIVIL FORFEITURE ACTIONS.
Sec. 3-42 Property Pursuant to a Search Warrant.
All items of property seized by the Dyer Metropolitan Police Department as a
result of an arrest search warrant or warrantless search shall be securely held
by the Dyer Metropolitan Police Department under the order of the Court trying
the case in which the seized property is involved in complete conformity with
Indiana Code, § 35-33-5-5. (Ord. No. 91-26, § 1, 10-8-91)
Sec. 3-43 Confiscated Weapons.
All firearms confiscated pursuant to law by the Dyer Metropolitan Police
Department shall be disposed of in complete accordance with the terms of
Indiana Code, § 35-47-3. (Ord. No. 91-26, § 2, 10-8-91)
Sec. 3-44 Confiscated Property Used to Facilitate Violation of Criminal
Statute.
Any real property, tangible or intangible personal property seized by the Dyer
Metropolitan Police Department pursuant to Indiana Code, § 34-24-1-1 shall be
disposed of in accordance with Indiana Code §§ 34-24-1-1 et seq. (Ord. No. 91-
26, § 3, 10-8-91; Am. Ord. No. 2020-08, 8-13-20)
Sec. 3-45 Commingling Monies Prohibited.
Any cash received by the Dyer Metropolitan Police Department in accordance with
the provisions of Section
3-44 above, shall not be commingled in any way with any other funds held by the
Dyer Metropolitan Police Department. In accordance therewith, there is created
three separate funds for the deposit of any such funds received such funds
shall be designated as follows: the In Rem Forfeiture Fund, the Racketeering
Forfeiture Fund, and the Federal Equitable Sharing Program Fund The Chief of
Police shall determine and designate into which account any funds received by
the Dyer Metropolitan Police Department in accordance with the provisions of
this Article shall be deposited. (Ord. No 91-26, § 4, 10-8-91)
Sec. 3-46 through Sec. 3-35 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. TOWN COURT. 15
                        
15   I.C., § 33-10.1-1, et seq., addresses the establishment of a Town Court.
Sec. 3-50 Reserved for Future Use. 16
                        
16   Editor's Note: Ord. No. 94-4, passed on May 10, 1994, initially
established a Dyer Town Court. This ordinance was subsequently appealed by Ord.
No. 94-25, which was passed on December 13, 1994.
CHAPTER 4
FEES, LICENSES AND PERMITS
Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 25-05,
adopted 5-15-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 4-1   Authority to License.
Sec. 4-2   Applications.
Sec. 4-3   Approval Procedures.
Sec. 4-4   Duration of License, Display Required, and Inspections.
Sec. 4-5   Issuance, Revocation or Suspension.
Sec. 4-6 through Sec. 4-9 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. SPECIFIC FEES AND CHARGES.
   Division I. Miscellaneous Charges.
Sec. 4-10   Fees for Copies of Incident Reports.
Sec. 4-11   Digitally Recorded Voice or Image Recordings (Body- Camera
Footage).
Sec.
4-12   Tow Release Services Fee.
Sec.
4-13   Fees and Charges.
Sec.
4-14   Towing Fee Schedule.
Sec.
4-15   Charge for Presentment of a Returned Check or Draft.
Sec.
4-16   Application Fee for Police Department Applicants.
Sec.
4-17   Copying Fee.
Sec.
4-18   Cost for Copies of Clark Dietz Maps.
Sec.
4-19   Costs for Copies of Dyer Subdivision Control Ordinance and the Book of
Standards.
Sec.
4-20   Fee for fingerprint services.
Sec.
4-21   Summer Fest Vendor Fees.
Sec.
4-22 through Sec. 4-23 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division II. Charges Regarding Hazardous and Toxic Material Spills and
Leaks.
Sec.
4-24   Payments Due Within Thirty (30) Days.
Sec.
4-25   Service Charges for Hazardous or Toxic Spills.
Sec.
4-26 through Sec. 4-28 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division III. Carnivals and Circuses.
Sec.
4-29   Definitions.
Sec.
4-30   Permits and Fees Required.
Sec.
4-31   Permits Non-Transferable.
Sec.
4-32   Considerations Before Issuance of Permit.
Sec.
4-33   Revocation of Permits and Hearing Thereon.
Sec.
4-34   Appeal Procedures.
Sec.
4-35   Exceptions.
Sec.
4-36   Penalty.
Sec.
4-37 through Sec. 4-41 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division IV. Schedule of Rates Governing Plumbing, House Drainage and Sewer
Works.
Sec.
4-42   Plumbing, House Drainage and Sewer Fees.
Sec.
4-43   Standards.
Sec.
4-44   Impact Fees.
Sec.
4-45 through Sec. 4-48 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division V. Dyer Sales Control Ordinance.
Sec.
4-49   Statement of Policy.
Sec.
4-50   Definitions.
Sec.
4-51   Temporary Facilities for Transient Merchants.
Sec.
4-52   Door to Door Solicitation - License Required.
Sec.
4-53   Application and Issuance of License.
Sec.
4-54   License Fee.
Sec.
4-55   Free Licenses to Veterans.
Sec.
4-56   Special Provisions for Vehicles.
Sec.
4-57   Term of Licenses.
Sec.
4-58   Badge Required.
Sec.
4-59   Hours of Solicitations.
Sec.
4-60   Sidewalk Contribution Solicitation - Permit Required.
Sec.
4-61   Application of Division.
Sec.
4-62   No Street Solicitation.
Sec.
4-63   Penalty.
Sec.
4-64 through Sec. 4-67 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VI. Regulation and Registration of Pinball Machines, Electronic
Games and Game Devices.
Sec.
4-68   Licensing of Electronic Games and Pinball Machines.
Sec.
4-69   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec.
4-70   Application for License
Sec.
4-71   Role of Clerk-Treasurer.
Sec.
4-72   License Fee.
Sec.
4-73   Installations - Number Restricted.
Sec.
4-74   Revocation and Nuisances.
Sec.
4-75   Transfer of License/Fees.
Sec.
4-76   Penalties.
Sec.
4-77 through Sec. 4-83 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VII. Taxicab Regulations.
Sec.
4-84   Taxicab License Required.
Sec.
4-85   Application.
Sec.
4-86   Licenses.
Sec.
4-87   Rules and Regulations for Taxicab Operation.
Sec.
4-88   License Fees.
Sec.
4-89   Definitions.
Sec.
4-90   Register of Taxicabs.
Sec.
4-91   Taxi Stands.
Sec.
4-92   Rates or Fares to be Charged and Regulations Governing Operations.
Sec.
4-93   Transfer of License Tags.
Sec.
4-94   Preference in Issuing Licenses.
Sec.
4-95   Taxicabs Licensed in Other Communities.
Sec.
4-96   Violations.
Sec.
4-97   Constitutionality.
Sec.
4-98 through Sec. 4-101 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VIII. Certificate of Registration for Contractors and
Subcontractors.
Sec.
4-102   Persons Required to Register Crafts and Trades.
Sec.
4-103   Applications.
Sec.
4-104   Persons Subject to License.
Sec.
4-105   Forms.
Sec.
4-106   Fees.
Sec.
4-107   Termination of Registration.
Sec.
4-108   Inspection.
Sec.
4-109   Revocation.
Sec.
4-110   Bonding Requirements.
Sec.
4-111   Insurance.
Sec.
4-112   Posting of Certificate of Registration.
Sec.
4-113   Schedule of Fees and Charges.
Sec.
4-114   Penalty.
Sec.
4-115 through Sec. 4-118 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division IX. Park, Building and Zoning Fees.
Sec.
4-119   Park and Recreation Fees.
Sec.
4-120   Building Fees.
Sec.
4-121   Zoning and Planning Fees.
Sec.
4-122   Motor Vehicle Fees.
Sec.
4-123    Reserved for Future Use.
   Division X. Miscellaneous Permits and Regulations.
Sec.
4-124   Liquor Retailer's Permits.
Sec.
4-125   Fees for Recycling Bins.   
Sec.
4-126 through Sec. 4-133 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division XI. Franchise Agreements.
Sec.
4-134   Town Council Approval Required.
Sec.
4-135 through Sec. 4-143 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division XII. Tax Abatement Procedures.
Sec.
4-144   Economic Revitalization Areas.
Sec.
4-145   Administrative Charges and Fees.
Sec.
4-146 through Sec. 4-153 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division XIII. Licensing Chart.
Sec.
4-154   Chart on Fees.
ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 4-1 Authority to License. 1
Under I.C. 36-1-3-8(5), the Town has the authority to impose a license fee that
is reasonably related to the administrative cost of exercising its regulatory
power. (Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
                        
1   I.C., § 36-1-3-8(5), provides Towns with licensing power.
Sec. 4-2 Applications.
The Clerk-Treasurer must make all applications for a permit or license under
this Chapter available to the public unless otherwise specified. (Am. Ord. No.
2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-3 Approval Procedures.
After examination, the Clerk-Treasurer may grant such permit or license, unless
good cause exists for denial. (Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-4 Duration of License, Display Required, and Inspections. 2
   (a)   All licenses issued under this Chapter, unless specified otherwise on
the license, are issued for the duration of the calendar year for which they
were issued.
   (b)   Every person issued a license under the provisions of the licensed
activity being conducted, or if there are no premises must carry the license
while engaged in the activity licensed, and must exhibit it to any Town
official or citizen upon request.
   (c)   The Police Department, Zoning Administrator and Building Commissioner
may inspect all places of business under license or required to have a license.
(Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
                        
2   I.C., § 36-8-3-10, authorizes the Police Department to do inspections.
Sec. 4-5 Issuance, Revocation or Suspension. 3
   (a)   The Clerk-Treasurer may issue licenses or permits upon payment of the
license or permit fees and compliance with the applicable provisions of this
Code.
   (b)   Licenses and permits issued by the Town may be revoked or suspended if
the license or permit holder has violated the terms or conditions of the
license or permit or the law under which it was issued, or has conducted the
licensed or permitted activity in a manner that threatens the public health,
safety, or general welfare of the Town. (Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
                        
3   I.C., § 36-5-6-6(6), authorizes the Clerk-Treasurer to issue licenses.
Sec. 4-6 through Sec. 4-9 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. SPECIFIC FEES AND CHARGES.
Division I. Miscellaneous Charges.4
                    
4   Editor's Note: Ord. No. 92-13, passed April 14, 1992, which established an
assessment registration fee, was repealed by Ord. No. 94-2, which was passed on
March 8, 1994.
Sec. 4-10 Fees for Copies of Incident Reports.
   (a)   The Dyer Metropolitan Police Department is authorized to collect a fee
of five dollars ($5.00) for a copy of the first page of an incident report, and
three dollars ($3.00) for all subsequent pages to pay for costs of copying,
filing and storing of said reports.
   (b)   The Police Department is authorized to collect a fee of twenty dollars
($20.00) for a copy of accident report to pay for costs of filing, storing, and
copying.
   (c)   The Police Department must account for and report to the Clerk-
Treasurer all fees collected under this section, in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the Indiana State Board of Accounts.
   (d)   Fees collected under this Section must be deposited in the Incident
Report Account established in Sec. 2-192 below. (Ord. No. 81-32, § 2, 8-11-81;
Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-11 Digitally Recorded Voice or Image Recordings (Body- Camera Footage).
The Dyer Metropolitan Police Department may collect fees for image records as
follows:
   (a)   One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per recorded event of Body Camera
Footage.
   (b)   Five dollars ($5.00) for each photograph or copy.
   (c)   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for each memory stick, USB or DVD. (Ord. No.
2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-12 Tow Release Services Fee.
   (a)   The Town must charge a fee of forty-five dollars ($45.00) for all tow
release services.
   (b)   Any monies received for providing tow release services must be
deposited into the “Police Department Special Revenue Fund.” (Ord. No. 2022-02,
§ 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-13 Fees and Charges.
The duly registered owner or person otherwise lawfully entitled to possession
of the impounded vehicle may obtain release of the vehicle upon payment of all
fees and charges to the qualified towing contractor. Charges include:
   Towing of Vehicles (6:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.);
   Towing of Vehicles (6:00 p.m. - 6:00 a.m.);
   Use of Flat Bed Trailer; and
   Inside and/or Outside Storage of Vehicles for each period of twenty-four
(24) hours or less.
Payment must occur at the office of the qualified towing contractor. (Ord. No.
2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-14 Towing Fee Schedule.
   (a)   The towing firm with whom the Town has contracted for towing and
storage services may charge for towing or removing the vehicle in the Town:
      Service               Rate
      Standard tow                $185.00
      Motorcycle rack or tie down       Additional $40.00
      Daytime tow                $85.00 $100.00
      Daytime tow with flatbed         $125.00
      Nighttime tow            $100.00 $150.00
      Nighttime tow with flatbed          $175.00
      Standard winch and tow         Up to $75.00 (in addition to tow)
      Standard winch only         $125.00
      Daytime winch and tow (in addition to tow)   Up to $50.00
      Nighttime winch and tow (in addition to tow)   Up to $100.00
      Daytime winch only            $75.00
      Nighttime winch only          $125.00
      Flatbed               As applicable
      Disconnect linkage (no keys)      $20.00
      Storage per day:
         Outside             $45.00
         Inside                $55.00
      Two or more trucks used         Two call-outs
      Vehicles over one ton         As applicable
      After hours vehicle release          $40.00
   (b)   The Contract for Towing and Recovery Services between the Town and
Stan’s Towing and Recovery Service, dated April 11, 1995, is amended to
incorporate the newly established towing rate fee schedule, with all other
terms and provisions affirmed. (Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-15 Charge for Presentment of a Returned Check or Draft.
Any person presenting a check or draft that is returned to the Town of Dyer
marked “unpaid” or “NSF” is assessed an additional sum to be added to the fee
or bill for which the “unpaid” check or draft was presented. This charge equals
any protest fee charged to the Town of Dyer plus twenty-seven and 50/100
($27.50) or five percent (5%) of the face amount of the check or draft,
whichever is greater, not to exceed two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00).
(Ord. No. 84-18, 5-10-84; Ord. No. 86-24, 7-8-86; Ord. No. 95-26, 11-14-95;
Ord. No. 2008-14, 9-17-08; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-16 Application Fee for Police Department Applicants.
Application fees for Police Department applicants are addressed in Section
2-96 of this Code. (Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-17 Copying Fee.
   (a)   Any person requesting a copy of a public record other than an Incident
Report must pay in advance to the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town the actual cost
of copying the record determined to be ten cents ($0.10) per page.
   (b)   If the Town does not have mechanical means for copying a requested
record, the person requesting such record shall be entitled to inspect and
manually transcribe the record. The Town may not charge to inspect a public
record or to search for, examine, or review a record to determine whether the
record may be disclosed. (Ord. No. 84-29, § 7, 7-10-84; Ord. No. 2003-13, 6-17-
03)
   (c)   This fee is also addressed in § 3-36 of this Code. (Am. Ord. No. 2022-
02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-18 Cost for Copies of Clark Dietz Maps.
   (a)   Anyone seeking to obtain copies of aerial and contour maps of the Town
prepared by Clark Dietz must pay to the Clerk-Treasurer twenty-five dollars
($25.00) for up to five (5) copies, and five dollars ($5.00) for each
additional copy. A sheet being recognized as being 24" x 36" in size and
representing a certain section of the Town of Dyer. Monies collected are placed
in the Town General Fund.
   (b)   This fee is waived if the party requesting a copy under this section
is a governmental entity. (Ord. No. 93-18, 10-12-93; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3,
1-13-22)
Sec. 4-19 Costs for Copies of Dyer Subdivision Control Ordinance and the Book
of Standards.
The following charges apply for each copy of the Dyer Subdivision Control
Ordinance and the Book of Standards:
      Dyer Subdivision Control Ordinance      $50.00
      Book of Standards               $50.00
(Ord. No. 95-4, 2-14-95; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-20 Fee for fingerprint services.
A fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for Dyer residents and thirty-five
dollars ($35.00) for non-residents for fingerprint services is established. Any
monies received for these fees must be deposited into the Police Department
Special Revenue Fund. (Ord. No. 2007-09, 5-16-07; Am. Ord. No. 2010-12, 11-3-
2010; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-21 Summer Fest Vendor Fees.
   The following fee schedule applies to all vendors at Summer Fest:
      Food Vendors
         Size of Space                  Fee Amount
            10' x 10'                         $400.00
            20' x 10'                         $500.00
            20' x 20'                         $600.00
            Up to 25'                      $650.00
            Up to 30'                      $700.00
      Non Food Vendors
         Size of Space                  Fee Amount
            10' x 10'                         $300.00
            20' x 10'                         $400.00
            20' x 20'                         $500.00
      All Vendors
         Additional space                      $125.00/10 linear feet
         20A/100 V circuit                   $100.00 per circuit
         30A/220 V circuit                   $175.00 per circuit
         50A/220 V circuit                   $250.00 per circuit
         Additional electric supply                $200.00
(Ord. 2025-02, § 1, 2-20-25)
Sec. 4-22 through Sec. 4-23 Reserved for Future Use.
Division II. Charges Regarding Hazardous and Toxic Material Spills and Leaks.
Sec. 4-24 Payments Due Within Thirty (30) Days.
Shippers, transporters, owners of automobiles and other vehicles, and including
owners or tenants of fixed facilities within the Town of Dyer, who cause or
permit (1) leaks or spills of potentially hazardous or toxic materials within
the Town of Dyer, or (2) a vehicle fire on a state highway or an interstate
highway within the Town of Dyer, for which leaks, spills, or fire the Dyer
Volunteer Fire Department initially respond, must pay the Town of Dyer within
thirty (30) days the amount set forth in the following Section to reimburse the
Town for all direct and indirect expenses it incurs in responding to the call,
including expenses incurred by the Department of Public Works of the Town of
Dyer. (Ord. No. 90-32, § 1, 9-11-90; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22) 5
                                 
5 Editor's Note: Ord. No. 90-32 contained a scrivener's error listing "Board of
Public Works" instead of "Department of Public Works".
Sec. 4-25 Service Charges for Hazardous or Toxic Spills.
Service charges of the Dyer Volunteer Fire Department shall be computed as
follows:
   (a)   For the initial response with fire engine, trucks, or fire apparatus,
Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00).
   (b)   For each hour or fraction of an hour of on-scene assistance, One
Hundred Fifty Dollars ($150.00).
   (c)   For expendable materials such as absorption materials, or other agents
used in cleanup operations, the actual replacement cost of those materials.
   (d)   For collection of debris, chemicals, fuel, or contaminated materials
resulting from a spill, the actual cost of removal and disposal at an
authorized location. (Ord. No. 90-32, § 1, 9-11-90; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3,
1-13-22)
Sec. 4-26 through Sec. 4-28 Reserved for Future Use.
Division III. Carnivals and Circuses.
Sec. 4-29 Definitions.
   "Public purposes" includes all carnivals, circuses, side show fairs,
exhibitions, demonstrations, trade shows, or other means of congregating groups
of people together, whether for profit or not. (Ord. No. 740, § l, 9-9-69; Am.
Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-30 Permits and Fees Required.
   (a)   Any person or entity who seeks to use private or public property for
the purposes defined above must apply to the Town Council for a permit to use
said property and provide the following information:
      (1)   If on private property, a written authorization from the owner of
the private property.
      (2)   The name and address of the applicant and the name and address of
each and every person sponsoring or otherwise having an interest in the
temporary land use.
      (3)   The exact dates and location on which temporary land use will
occur.
      (4)   The name and address of the operator who intends to use the land
for public purposes and the nature of the intended use.
      (5)   All applications for such permits shall be filed no less than
thirty (30) days before the first date of the occurrence of the intended land
use.
   (b)   Each person or entity applying for this permit must pay to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer a permit fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for each permit, which
inures to the General Fund. No fee may be paid to the said Clerk-Treasurer
until the permit is issued and signed by the President of the Town Council.
(Ord. No. 740, § 2, 9-9-69; Am. Ord. No. 20223-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-31 Permits Non-Transferable.
No permits issued under the previous section is transferrable. (Ord. No. 740, §
3, 9-9-69; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-32 Considerations Before Issuance of Permit.
In considering whether or not to issue said permits, the Town Council President
must first procure written approval from the Chief of Police and the Chief of
the Dyer Volunteer Fire Department or their designees, to ensure that the
proposed operation is not hazardous to propertyand does not endanger any person
or present traffic or safety problems. (Ord. No. 740, § 4, 9-9-69; Am. Ord. No.
2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-33 Revocation of Permits and Hearing Thereon.
   (a)   If the Town Council President has reason to believe that there is a
violation of this chapter by any permittee, he or she must immediately revoke
the permit in writing. The Dyer Chief of Police, or his or her designee, must
serve written revocation under this Section. Upon service, all authority
granted by the permit terminates immediately.
   (b)   Upon revocation under this section, the Town Council President
immediately certifies his or her action in writing to the Town Council, which
must hold a hearing not less than three (3) days after the date of revocation
to determine the finality of said revocation, provided that said permittee
requests said hearing. (Ord. No. 740, § 5, 9-9-69; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3,
1-13-22)
Sec. 4-34 Appeal Procedures.
Should the Town Council President deny a request for a permit under this
division, the applicant, within five (5) days after the date of refusal, may
appeal in writing the denial to the Town Council, which must hold a hearing no
later than three (3) days after said appeal is filed, to determine whether or
not the permit should be issued. (Ord. No. 740, § 6, 9-9-69; Am. Ord. No. 2022-
02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-35 Exceptions.
Nothing in this Division prohibits any person or entity from conducting their
regular meetings and affairs, either on public or private property, provided no
additional public use as defined in this division is contemplated or intended.
(Ord. No. 740, § 7, 9-9-69; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-36 Penalty.
Any person or entity violating any provision of this Division is fined a
minimum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each violation. (Ord. No. 740, § 8, 9-9-
69; Ord. No. 89-38, 10-10-89; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-37 through Sec. 4-41 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IV. Schedule of Rates Governing Plumbing, House Drainage and Sewer
Work.
Sec. 4-42 Plumbing, House Drainage and Sewer Fees.
Plumbing, House Drainage and Sewer Fees are:
   (1)   Permit cost is seventy-five dollars ($75.00) plus an additional seven
dollars and fifty cents ($7.50) for each sink, closet, lavatory, bath tub,
shower, drinking fountain, urinal, laundry tray, automatic dishwasher, slop
sink, sump pump, sill cock, floor drain, inside down spout, range boiler, side
arm heater, water heater, storage tank, air conditioning unit requiring water
connection, and humidifier requiring water connection, plus seven dollars and
fifty cents ($7.50) for each additional outlet provided for future rough in.
   (2)   The minimum plumbing permit fee is seventy-five dollars ($75.00), plus
an administration fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. No. 88-11, § 9[E], 3-8-
88; Am. Ord. No. 98-11, § 2, 7-14-98)
   (3)   Reinspection or inspection subsequent to “red tag” shall be at the
expense of the owner or applicant at the rate of forty dollars ($40.00) for
each reinspection, payable before reinspection. (Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-
13-22)
Sec. 4-43 Standards.
All building standards are addressed in Chapter 7 of this Code. (Am. Ord. No.
2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-44 Impact Fees.
All wastewater treatment and water utility infrastructure impact fees are
addressed in
Chapter 9 of this Code. (Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-45 through Sec. 4-48 Reserved for Future Use.
It is declared to be the policy of the Town of Dyer in full recognition of the
constitutional rights of freedom of speech and assembly, and in the furtherance
of the public health, safety and general welfare to regulate solicitation,
sales and the distribution of literature by persons, organizations, peddlers
and transient merchants; to protect the citizenry from unauthorized
solicitation at their homes to provide for maximum traffic safety on the
streets and highways in the Town and to provide for the public health, safety
and welfare of the citizens of the Town. (Ord. No. 92-28, § 1, 10-13-92)
Division V. Dyer Sales Control Ordinance.6
                    
6   I.C., § 25-37-1-11, addresses the Town's authorization over transient
merchants.
Sec. 4-49 Statement of Policy.
It is the policy of the Town of Dyer in full recognition of the constitutional
rights of freedom of speech and assembly, and in the furtherance of the public
health, safety and general welfare to regulate solicitation, sales and the
distribution of literature by persons, organizations, peddlers and transient
merchants; to protect the citizenry from unauthorized solicitation at their
homes to provide for maximum traffic safety on the streets and highways in the
Town and to provide for the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens
of the Town. (Ord. No. 92-28, § 1, 10-13-92; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-
22)
Sec. 4-50 Definitions.7
The following definitions apply throughout this division:
   Peddler means any person selling or offering for sale, barter or exchange,
by sample or otherwise, any products, goods, wares or merchandise of any kind,
traveling by foot, vehicle or other conveyance, on any street, alley, or
highway, or any grounds in the municipality. The term includes “hawkers” and
“ice cream vendors”.
   Solicitor and/or canvasser means any person taking or attempting to take
orders for sales or products, goods, wares and merchandise of any kind, for
delivery, furnishment, or performance in the future, whether or not the person
has, carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale, or
whether he collects advance payment of such sales or not, traveling by foot or
any type of conveyance within the corporate limits of the Town. The term
includes persons soliciting the taking of photographs and requesting
contributions for any person or organization and distributing any literature or
flyers on behalf of any person or organization.
   Transient merchant means any person, whether a resident or non-resident of
the Town, who engages in a temporary business of selling or delivering goods or
products of any kind within the Town, and who, in furtherance of that purpose,
hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, for the exhibition and sale of
products, goods, wares and merchandise. (Ord. No. 92-28, § 2, 10-13-92; Am.
Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
                    
7   I.C., § 25-37-1-2, defines “transient merchant”.
Sec. 4-51 Temporary Facilities for Transient Merchants.
   (a)   All persons, merchants or transient merchants licensed under the
provisions of this Chapter, or subject to being licensed under the provisions
of this chapter, except peddlers or solicitors, must conduct their business
within the town in a permanent structure enclosing an area of not less than
five hundred (500) square feet on one level. This structure must be serviced by
sanitary facilities, sewers, drains, power, and utilities, including running
water, and must be built in conformity with the building Code of the Town
applicable to commercial buildings.
   (b)   No license may be issued to a person subject to the provisions of
subsection (a) until the applicant demonstrates that the intended use of the
facilities is permitted under the applicable provisions of the Dyer Zoning
Ordinance or produces documentation from the proper Town official that a
special exception use has been granted. (Ord. No. 92-28, § 3, 10-13-92; Am.
Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-52 Door to Door Solicitation—License Required.
   (a)   No person may contact or approach any residence or place of business
within the Town with the intent or purpose of soliciting without having a
license from the Town authorizing solicitation in his or her possession. Only
the person to whom the license issues may possess the license.
   (b)   No person may occupy or use any portion of a public street, sidewalk,
park or other public property within the Town to sell or offer to sell
merchandise or take photographs, pictures, or motion pictures with the intent
to sell them or offer them for sale, without first obtaining a license.
   (c)   No person may engage in house-to-house selling, peddling, soliciting,
canvassing, hawking, acting as a transient merchant or any similar activity
within the Town without first registering and obtaining a license. (Ord. No.
92-28, § 4, 10-13-92; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-53 Application and Issuance of License.
   (a)   Any person or entity required to obtain a license under the provisions
of this ordinance must file a sworn written application (in duplicate) with the
Clerk-Treasurer the application giving the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant and, if a group, the names and
addresses of all persons who will be soliciting;
      (2)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold;
      (3)   If employed, name and address of the employer, together with the
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
      (4)   Length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      (5)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the vehicle and
license plate number;
      (6)   Photograph of the applicant on a valid state photo identification
card or a valid driver's license (if applicable);
      (7)   Social security number and a statement as to whether or not the
applicant has been convicted of any crime, (if applicable).
   (b)   At the time of filing application, the applicant must pay a non-
refundable fee of ten dollars ($10.00) to the Clerk-Treasurer covering the cost
of investigation. Upon receipt of the application, the Clerk-Treasurer must
transmit the original to the Chief of Police, who may cause an investigation of
the applicant’s business and moral character to be made as deemed necessary for
the protection of the public. If the applicant’s character and responsibility
are found unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police may endorse his or her
disapproval and the reasons supporting it on the application, returning the
application to the Clerk-Treasurer who must notify the applicant that the
application is disapproved and that no license will issue.
   (c)   If the applicant's character and responsibility are found
satisfactory, the Chief of Police must endorse his or her approval on the
application, returning the application to the Clerk-Treasurer, who, upon
payment of the prescribed fee, must issue a license and deliver it to the
applicant. The license must bear the signature of the Clerk-Treasurer, the name
and address of the licensee, class of license issued, the kinds of goods to be
sold under it, and the expiration date. The Clerk-Treasurer must keep a
permanent record of all licenses issued. (Ord. No. 92-28, § 5, 10-13-92; Am.
Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-54 License Fee.
A licensee under this Division must pay to the Clerk-Treasurer a license fee of
five dollars ($5.00) per week, ten dollars ($10.00) per month, or fifty dollars
($50.00) per year. None of the license fees provided in this Division may
create an undue burden upon interstate commerce. In any case in which an
applicant or licensee believes a license fee to place an undue burden upon
interstate commerce, it may apply to the Town Council for an adjustment of the
fee to an amount not discriminatory, unreasonable, or unfair to interstate
commerce. (Sec. 92-28, § 6, 10-13-92; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-55 Free Licenses to Veterans.7
The Clerk-Treasurer must waive all license fees under this Division to an
approved applicant who has been a war veteran or service member. (Ord. No. 92-
28, § 7, 10-13-92; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
                    
7   I.C., § 25-37-1-14, exempts honorably discharged veterans from paying
license fees.
Sec. 4-56 Special Provisions for Vehicles.
For each vehicle used, a licensed applicant must file a certificate of
insurance with the Clerk-Treasurer, establishing that liability insurance
coverage in minimum amounts of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) and
three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) bodily injury and fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) property damage is in effect on all dates requested for
the license. Each vehicle so used must have displayed upon both sides, in plain
print, legible at twenty (20) feet, the name and address of owner and kind of
goods for sale. A licensee must pay to the Clerk- Treasurer a fee for each
vehicle so used of five dollars ($5.00) per month or twenty-five dollars
($25.00) per year. (Ord. No. 92-28, § 8, 10-13-92; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3,
1-13-22)
Sec. 4-57 Term of Licenses.
All annual licenses issued under this Division expire on December 31 of the
year when issued, and all other licenses expire on the date specified on the
license. (Ord. No. 92-28, § 9, 10-13-92; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-58 Badge Required.
Any licensee under this Division must wear a badge conspicuously upon his or
her person, which is to be furnished by the Town and is non-transferable.
All licensees must pay the Clerk-Treasurer a deposit of five dollars ($5.00)
for the badge, with the deposit returned upon the return of the badge to the
Clerk-Treasurer within five (5) days of expiration of said license. (Ord. No.
92-28, § 10, 10-13-92; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-59 Hours of Solicitations.
No house-to-house solicitor or canvasser may use other than the front door when
making calls at residences, and all soliciting or canvassing must occur between
9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Solicitation or canvassing on Sundays and state
holidays is prohibited. (Ord. No. 92-28, § 11, 10-13-92; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02,
§ 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-60 Sidewalk Contribution Solicitation - Permit Required.
   (a)   No person may solicit contributions or distribute any literature or
flyers on any sidewalk in the Town, without having first obtained a sidewalk
contribution permit.
   (b)   The Clerk-Treasurer may issue a sidewalk contribution permit for the
solicitation of contributions from the general public, or the distribution of
literature or flyers, by duly authorized persons on any sidewalk, for the
benefit of recognized charities, for fraternal and veterans organizations and
for political, civic, social, educational and religious groups. The permit
expires on December 31 of the year in which the permit issues.
   (c)   Except with a sidewalk contribution permit and when so acting in
compliance with this section, no person or organization may solicit, collect,
or use for any purpose any funds obtained on the public streets or places in
the Town.
   (d)   The provisions of this Section do not apply and no permit may issue
for the commercial sale of merchandise, unless such sale is for the purpose of
supporting the organizations refereed to in (b) herein.
   (e)   Any person or organization desiring to obtain a sidewalk contribution
permit must file an application with the Clerk-Treasurer that provides the
following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant and, if a group, the names and
addresses of all persons who will be soliciting;
      (2)   A brief description of the nature of the organization and the goods
to be sold (if applicable);
      (3)   The dates requested for the solicitation;
      (4)   If vehicles are to be used, a description of the vehicles, together
with license plate numbers;
   (f)   All requests for sidewalk contribution permits must be received by the
Clerk-Treasurer no later than ten (10) business days before the requested
solicitation dates, and the Clerk-Treasurer has the right, in the interest of
the public health, safety, and welfare, to grant the permit for a date other
than that requested.
   (g)   The Town may not charge a fee for the issuance of a sidewalk
contribution permit.
   (h)   All persons obtaining sidewalk contribution permits under this section
must wear a visible identification tag identifying both the individual and the
organization they represent. (Ord. No. 92-28, § 12, 10-13-92; Am. Ord. No.
2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-61 Application of Division.
This Division does not apply to:
   (a)   Persons representing a bona fide wholesale establishment selling to
retail merchants.
   (b)   The acts of retail merchants or their employees conducting business in
the Town of Dyer in taking orders or delivering goods in the houses of their
customers for goods or services. (Ord. No. 92-28, § 13, 10-13-92; Am. Ord. No.
2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-62 No Street Solicitation.
To maintain the public health, safety, and welfare, this ordinance does not
provide for street solicitation, which is illegal in the Town of Dyer, Indiana.
(Ord. No. 92-28, § 14, 10-13-92; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-63 Penalty.8
Any person who violates any provision of this Division is fined fifty dollars
($50.00) for the first violation payable to the Ordinance Violation Bureau, and
in a sum not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each
subsequent day on which violation occurs, each of which constitutes a separate
offense. (Ord. No. 92-28, § 15, 10-13-92; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
                         
8   I.C., § 25-37-1-9, addresses violations, and I.C., § 25-37-1-11, addresses
punishment of violators subject to the provision of I.C., § 36-1-3.
Sec. 4-64 through Sec. 4-67 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VI. Regulation and Registration of Pinball Machines, Electronic-Games
and Game Devices.
Sec. 4-68 Licensing of Electronic Games and Pinball Machines.
   (a)   Every business, arcade, tavern or other establishment which maintains
on its premises any electronic games, pinball machines or other game devices
such as may be found in an arcade, must license each such game, machine, or
device separately.
   (b)   Each license must state the name of the owner of the game, machine, or
device; the owner’s address; the date of installation; the place of
installation; serial number, if any; and the manufacturer. The application for
each license, in addition to the preceding information, must state all
additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance of Town
Officials in licensing gaming devices. Each license must be prominently
displayed on the game, machine, or device for which it is issued or kept on
file in the office of the establishment to which it is issued and be readily
available for inspection.
   (c)   The installation and operation of any electronic game, machine, or
gaming device without the proper license affixed, or on file, is a violation of
this Division. (Ord. No. 80-19, § 1, 4-8-80; Am. Ord. No. 2013-05, § 1, 7-8-13;
Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-69 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 4-70 Application for License.
Applications for a license required by this Division must be made in writing to
the Clerk-Treasurer. Forms for all licenses and applications therefor shall be
prepared and kept on file by the Town Clerk-Treasurer. Each license issued
shall terminate on March 31 of each year. (Ord. No. 82-6, 3-9-82; Am. Ord. No.
2013-05, § 1, 7-8-13; Am. Ord. No. 2019-04, § 1, passed 8-8-19; Am. Ord. No.
2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-71 Role of Clerk-Treasurer.
The Clerk-Treasurer must mail to all licensees a statement of the license’s
expiration one (1) month before the date of expiration, provided, that a
failure to send out such notice, or the failure of the licensee to receive it
does not excuse the licensee from a failure to secure a new license or renewal
license, nor does it constitute a defense for operation without a license.
(Ord. No. 82-6, 3-9-82; Am. Ord. No. 2013- 05, § 1, 7-8-13; Am. Ord. No. 2022-
02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-72 License Fee.
For each license under this Division, the licensee must pay a fee of twenty-
five dollars ($25.00), payable at time of application. All such fees inure to
the General Fund of the Town. (Ord. No. 82-6, 3-9-82; Am. Ord. No. 2013-05, §
1, 7-8- 13; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-73 Installations-Number Restricted.
Each business establishment is entitled to install up to five (5) gaming
devices, except a business establishment whose primary business is recreation,
for which a number of gaming devices has no limit. No recreational facility,
however, may solely operate as an arcade. (Ord. No. 85-49, a, 1-14-86; Am. Ord.
No. 2013-05, § 1, 7-8-13; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-74 Revocation and Nuisances.
   (a)   All licenses issued under this Division are subject to revocation by
the Clerk-Treasurer upon recommendation of the Town Council for presenting a
nuisance to customers, other businesses, or the public resulting from the
operation of gaming or amusement devices on the licensed premises. For purposes
of this Section, a “nuisance” includes the violation of any provision of the
Dyer Town Code or Indiana Code pertaining to force, violence, disorderly
conduct, moral turpitude, or gambling.
   (b)   All licenses issued under this Division are automatically revoked upon
conviction of the licensee for any felony or misdemeanor involving force,
violence, disorderly conduct, moral turpitude, gambling, or the laws of the
State of Indiana relating to business operation. (Ord. No. 85-49, b, c, 1-14-
86; Am. Ord. No. 2013-05, § 1, 7-8-13; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-75 Transfer of License/Fees.
A license issued under this Division is transferrable under the following
conditions:
   (a)   The machine from which the license is being transferred is being
removed from the business establishment.
   (b)   The license decal, or as much of it as can possibly be removed, is
returned to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (c)   A transfer fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) is paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer. (Ord. No. 85-49, 1-14-86; Am. Ord. No. 2013-05, § 1, 7-8-13; Am.
Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-76 Penalties.
Anyone found in violation of the Division shall be fine of not less than two-
hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than one- thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for
each violation. (Ord. No. 85-49, 1-14-86; Am. Ord. No. 2013-05, § 1, 7-8-13;
Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-77 through Sec. 4-83 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VII. Taxicab Regulations.9
                          
9  I.C., § 8-2.1-22-1, et seq., addresses regulations on “Transportation of
Passengers”.
Sec. 4-84 Taxicab License Required.
It is unlawful for any person or entity to operate a taxicab upon the streets
or alleys of Dyer, Indiana, without holding a license to operate the taxicab.
(Ord. No. 416, § 1, 12-8-59; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-85 Application.
Any person intending to operate a taxicab upon the streets or alleys of this
Town must first file with the Clerk-Treasurer an application for a license upon
forms to be supplied by the Clerk-Treasurer, which must state the following
information:
   (a)   The name and address of the applicant.
   (b)   If the applicant is a partnership, a copy of the partnership agreement
and the full names and addresses of all the co-partners. If the applicant is a
corporation, a copy of the articles of incorporation and the full names and
addresses of all officers and directions of the corporation.
   (c)   The number of taxicabs for which the applicant seeks a license.
   (d)   A complete description of each taxicab, including the make, year of
manufacture, engine number, serial number, motive power and color.
   (e)   All other information the Clerk-Treasurer deems necessary to show
compliance with this ordinance.
   (f)   A copy of an insurance policy or bond as required, along with cash or
certified check for basic license fee and individual taxicab fees as provided.
   (g)   The applicant’s oath and signature. (Ord. No. 416, § 2, 12-8-59; Am.
Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-86 Licenses.
Upon filing of an application as provided above, the Clerk- Treasurer must
issue to the applicant the following:
   (a)   A license authorizing the applicant to operate a taxicab or taxicabs
upon the streets or alleys of this Town for a period of three (3) years
beginning with the date of such license. All licenses must be displayed in a
prominent place in the taxicab for which it was issued at all times.
   (b)   Licenses issued upon the adoption of this ordinance shall expire three
(3) years from the date of the license, and are not transferable.
   (c)   No more taxicabs may be licensed to operate at any one time in excess
of one (1) taxicab for each three thousand (3,000) persons of the population of
the Town of Dyer as reflected by the last United States Census. The Clerk-
Treasurer must deny all applications once this ratio is reached.
   (d)   No person may operate a taxicab upon the streets or alleys of this
Town until such basic licenses and license for individual taxicab or taxicabs
have issued and been delivered.
   (e)   No person who has been convicted of a felony may operate or act as a
driver of a taxicab in the Town of Dyer. (Ord. No. 416, § 3, 12-8-59; Am. Ord.
No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-87 Rules and Regulations for Taxicab Operation.
No license for a taxicab may issue unless it complies with the following:
   (a)   The taxicab must be equipped with a floor mat: (1) made of rubber,
leather, metal chain, or a similar non- absorbent washable material; and (2)
easily removable.
   (b)   Every taxicab must be equipped with an interior dome light of
sufficient candela power to illuminate the entire interior.
   (c)   The name of the owner operating the taxicab and the number of the cab
must be painted in letters at least two (2) inches in height in the center of
the main panel of each rear door in the cab. (Ord. No. 416, § 4 [a] - [c], 12-
8-59)
   (d)   Every taxicab must be in excellent mechanical condition; and if the
vehicle is more than five (5) years old at the time of issuance of the license,
in addition to an annual State Safety Inspection, must undergo an inspection
every six (6) months by an authorized State Inspector, at the expense of the
Owner, as an extra safety precaution for public conveyance. The time for the
first inspection of such vehicle must be six (6) months afterwards. The Town
will design a check list of items to be inspected prior to such inspection.
(Ord. No. 769, § 4 [d], 10-13-70)
   (e)   Every taxicab must be affixed to it a taximeter of standard size and
design and illuminated by a continuous steady light with its dial visible to
the passenger. The case of the taximeter must be sealed and its cover and gear
must be intact. (Ord. No. 416, § 4 [e], 12-8-59)
   (f)   The owner of each taxicab must file with the Town Clerk-Treasurer an
insurance policy issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the
State of Indiana providing insurance coverage of twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) for the injury or death of any one person and fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) for the injury or death of any number of persons in any
single incident and minimum coverage of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for
property damage in any one accident, regardless of whether the taxi cab is
driven by the owner or its employee. In lieu of an insurance policy, the owner
of any taxicab may maintain on deposit with the Clerk-Treasurer for the
duration of its license a surety bond executed by a surety company approved by
the Town Attorney in a sum of not less than sixty thousand dollars ($60,000.00)
payable to the Town of Dyer, and conditioned upon the payment of all judgements
for damages for the death or injury of any one person up to twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) and up to fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for
the death or injury of any number of persons in any one incident, and ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for damages to property in any one incident
regardless of whether the judgement is against the driver, operator, or owner
of the taxicab. The form of such bond and the surety company issuing it must be
approved by the Town Attorney. The insurance policy or the bond shall conform
with the statutes of the State of Indiana in applicable to such policies or
bonds. (Ord. No. 656, § 4 [f], 5-9-67)
   (g)   No corporation or partnership may receive a license under this
Division unless it is authorized to conduct business in the State of Indiana.
(Ord. No. 416, § 4 [g], 12-8-59; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-88 License Fees.
   (a)   Each licensee under this Division must pay to the Clerk-Treasurer a
basic annual license fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for one (1) taxicab.
An additional annual license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) applies for each
additional taxicab operated by the licensee, subject to the limits provided in
Section 4-82. Fees collected under this Section inure to a separate fund.
   (b)   No other fees or charges other than as stated in this Division apply
to any licensee. (Ord. No. 416, § 5, 12-8-59; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-
22)
Sec. 4-89 Definitions.
   (a)   Taxicab includes all self-propelled vehicles carrying passengers for
hire and having intended seating capacity for six (6) persons or less.
   (b)   Taximeter includes any instrument or fare-registered device attached
to a taxicab and designed to register the distance traveled by the vehicle, to
record the time the vehicle is in waiting, and to indicate the fare to be
charged. (Ord. No. 416, § 6, 12-8-59; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-90 Register of Taxicabs.
The Town Clerk-Treasurer must keep a register showing the name and address of
each person owning or operating a taxicab licensed under this Division and the
license number, make, and description of each taxicab. This register
constitutes a public record. The Town must furnish and pay for all books
necessary to keep these records. (Ord. No. 416, § 7, 12-8-59; Am. Ord. No.
2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-91 Taxi Stands.
   (a)   Public taxi stands shall be provided for the use of licensed taxicabs
as herein defined and the Town Council is authorized to designate such stands.
Such stands shall be designated alongside the curb of any public street or
alley in the Town as may be deemed proper.
   (b)   Any taxicab stand so established by the Town Council shall be for the
use of all taxicabs licensed under the terms of this ordinance and no other
vehicles whatsoever. (Ord. No. 416, § 8, 12-8-59; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-
13-22)
Sec. 4-92 Rates or Fares to be Charged and Regulations Governing Operations.
   (a)   The charge for call must be metered, and is fifty cents ($.50) for the
first three-fifths (3/5) mile, and ten cents ($.10) for each additional one-
fifth (1/5) mile.
   (b)   The rate for the pick up and delivery of all packages without
passengers anywhere within the Town is one dollar ($1.00) plus taximeter fare
from package pick up point to delivery point. (Ord. No. 769, § 9 [a], [b], 10-
13-70)
   (c)   The charge for calls from places within Dyer to places outside the
limits of Dyer must be metered and is fifty cents ($.50) for the first three-
fifths (3/5) mile and ten cents ($.10) for each additional one-fifth (1/5)
mile. (Ord. No. 656, § 9 [c], 5-9-67)
   (d)   In all cases with more than one (1) passenger an additional charge of
ten cents ($.10) for each passenger applies.
   (e)   In the event passengers within the Town want the taxicab to wait,
waiting time includes the time when the taxicab is not in motion beginning with
arrival at the place to which it has been called or time consumed while
standing or waiting at the direction of the passenger; waiting time is charged
at the rate of ten cents ($.10) for each two (2) minutes or fraction of that
time, except that waiting time may not exceed the rate of three dollars ($3.00)
per hour unless the waiting time exceeds one (1) hour, in which case an
additional charge of two dollars ($2.00) per hour applies.
   (f)   Any passenger upon demand and upon the payment of the fare is entitled
to a receipt for fare and the receipt shall show the name of the owner of the
taxicab, the items which were paid, and the date of payment.
   (g)   Every driver of a taxicab has the right to demand payment in advance
of the legal fare for all hauls outside of the corporate limits of the Town of
Dyer and may refuse to transport or carry any person so refusing to pay such
fare in advance.
   (h)   No driver of a licensed taxicab may carry any person other than the
passenger or group of passengers first employing such taxicab without the
consent of the person or persons first employing it.
   (i)   All disputes as to fares are initially determined by the ranking
officer at the police station nearest to the place where the dispute arose.
   (j)   No driver of a taxicab may charge or attempt to charge any passenger a
higher rate of fare than that to which he is entitled under the provisions of
this ordinance.
   (k)   No person owning, operating, or driving a taxicab may operate or drive
the cab on a distance tariff or use or advertise in connection with it the
words “taxicab,” “taxi” or “cab” or in soliciting trade from the public or to
represent himself as the driver, operator or owner of a taxicab unless it is
equipped with a taximeter complying with this Division.
   (l)   No person owning, operating, or driving a taxicab may operate or drive
the cab unless the fare is determined by a standard-type taximeter and no fare
is charged to the passenger other than as recorded on the face of the taximeter
for the trip.
   (m)   No passenger or other person may occupy the front seat beside the
driver unless the rear seat is occupied by two (2) or more persons.
   (n)   Only paid passengers may ride in taxicabs. (Ord. No. 416, § 9 [d]-[n],
12-8-59; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-93 Transfer of License Tags.
Where the operator or owner of a taxicab withdraws his taxicab from service and
substitutes a new taxicab for the taxicab withdrawn, the license issued to the
withdrawn taxicab may be transferred to the new taxicab without charge. (Ord.
No. 416, § 10, 12-8-59; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-94 Preference in Issuing Licenses.
The Town Clerk-Treasurer in issuing licenses for the year 1960 or subsequent
years must give preference to operators and taxicabs operating within the Town
under this Division. (Ord. No. 416, § 11, 12-8-59; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3,
1-13-22)
Sec. 4-95 Taxicabs Licensed in Other Communities.
Nothing in this ordinance prevents taxicabs regularly licensed in other
municipalities from bringing in and depositing passengers in Dyer when the
passengers were picked up outside the corporate limits of Dyer. However,
taxicabs not licensed in Dyer may not accept passengers within the corporate
limits of Dyer for delivery to any point within the Town limits. (Ord. No. 416,
§ 12, 12-8-59; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-96 Violations.
   (a)   Any person operating or attempting to operate a taxicab on the streets
of Dyer without first having secured a license is subject to a fine of not less
than ten dollars ($10.00).
   (b)   A determination of violation of any of the provisions of this Division
by any owner, driver, or operator of any taxicab constitutes cause for the
revocation of its license as determined by the Town Council.
   (c)   The owner, driver or operator of any taxicab whose license has been
forfeited or suspended may not solicit or accept or transport passengers upon
the streets of the Town. Any person in violation of this provision is subject
to a fine of not less than ten dollars ($10.00).
   (d)   An operator or a driver of a taxicab fails to comply with any other
provision of this Division is subject to a fine of not less than ten dollars
($10.00).
   (e)   Any owner, operator, or driver of a taxicab who violates or refuses to
comply with any of the provisions of this Division is liable for a separate
offense for each day during or on which the violation or refusal to comply
occurs. (Ord. No. 416, § 13, 12-8-59; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-97 Constitutionality.
If any parts of this Division are determined to be unconstitutional or in
conflict with the laws of this State, the other parts of such ordinance are not
affected or impaired. (Ord. No. 416, § 14, 12-8-59; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3,
1-13-22)
Sec. 4-98 through Sec. 4-101 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VIII. Certificate of Registration for Contractors and
Subcontractors.10
                            
10   I.C., §22-11-3.1-3, authorizes a Town to license but restricts fees to
$100.00 and renewals to $50.00.
Sec. 4-102 Persons Required to Register Crafts & Trades.
All contractors, sub-contractors, remodelers, crafts, trades or other persons,
firms, or corporations doing business in the Town of Dyer in the field of
construction or remodeling or renovation must obtain a Certificate of
Registration from the Town of Dyer. (Ord. No. 80-20, § 1, 4-8-80; Am. Ord. No.
2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-103 Applications.
Applications for a Certificate of Registration required by this Division must
be made in writing to the Clerk-Treasurer. Each application must state the
names of the contractor, or subcontractor, their occupation or trade, the time
covered, and the fee to be paid. Each application must contain any additional
information needed for the proper guidance of the Town Officials for the
registration of the person or entity. (Ord. No. 80-20, § 1, 4-8-80; Am. Ord.
No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-104 Persons Subject to License.
Whenever a license is required by the State of Indiana, Lake County, or any of
their agencies, commissions or regulatory bodies, for the maintenance,
operation or conduct of any craft or trade connected with construction,
remodeling or renovating or for doing business or engaging in any construction,
remodeling or renovation, a person represents himself as being engaged in such
business or occupation; or solicits patronage actively or passively; or
performs or attempts to perform any part of such business or occupation in the
town, that person must present the license to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time
of application for a Certificate of Registration under this Division.
(Ord. No. 80-20, § 1, 4-8-80; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-105 Forms.
The Clerk-Treasurer must prepare and maintain forms for all registrations and
applications under this Division. (Ord. No. 80-20, § 1, 4-8-80; Am. Ord. No.
2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-106 Fees.
In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for licenses
or permits must be paid in advance at the time of application to the Clerk-
Treasurer. Except as otherwise provided, all registration fees inure to the
general fund. (Ord. No. 80-20, § 1, 4-8-80; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-107 Termination of Registration.
Each Certificate of Registration under this Division terminates on December 31
of the calendar year in which it issues.
The Town Clerk-Treasurer must mail to all registrants of the Town a statement
of the time of the expiration of the Certificate of Registration held by the
registrant, one month before the date of expiration. Failure to send out the
notice, or the failure of the registrant to receive it does not excuse the
registrant from a failure to secure a new certificate of registration or
renewal, and does not constitute a defense to operation without a certificate
of registration. (Ord. No. 80-20, § 1, 4-8-80; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-
22)
Sec. 4-108 Inspection.
Whenever inspection of the premises under construction or renovation is
provided for or required by ordinance, or is reasonably necessary to secure
compliance with any ordinance provision or to detect violations, the
registrant, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, must admit
into the premises for the purpose of making the inspection, any officer or
employee of the Town authorized or directed to make such inspection at any
reasonable time that admission is requested.
Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably necessary to
secure conformance with any ordinance or provision or to detect violations, the
registrant of the Town whose craft is governed by the provisions must give any
authorized officer or employee of the Town requesting them sufficient samples
of such material or commodity for analysis upon request.
In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Town Council may
revoke the Certificate of Registration of any registrant in the Town who
refuses to permit or interferes with any officer or employee authorized to make
an inspection or take a sample to make the inspection, or take an adequate
sample. However, no certificate of registration may be revoked for this cause
unless written demand is made upon the registrant or person in charge of the
premises, in the name of the Town, stating that such inspection or sample is
desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or to obtain the
sample.
(Ord. No. 80-20, § 1, 4-8-80; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-109 Revocation.
Any Certificate of Registration may be suspended or revoked by the Town Council
for any of the following reasons:
   a.   Violation by the registrant of an ordinance of the Town of Dyer.
   b.   Violation by the registrant of any law, rule or regulation of the State
of Indiana or of the United States of America, or any department or division of
them.
   c.   Misrepresentation or falsification of statements in the application for
a Certificate of Registration.
In the event the Town Council believes that the violation by the registrant can
be cured or corrected, the Clerk-Treasurer must serve written notice upon the
registrant setting forth the violations, and the registrant has between five
(5) and thirty (30) days to cure and correct the violation and to submit
evidence of the cure or correction to the Town Council. Before the suspension
or revocation of any Certificate of Registration, the Town Council may give
written notice to the registrant of the violation and set a date for hearing
for the purpose of suspending or revoking the license or permits. Such a
hearing must occur no less than ten (10) days after the personal service of the
mailing of the written notice; however, in the event the Town Council believe
that immediate and irreparable harm or damage to person or property may occur
by reason of the violation, the hearing may be had after twenty-four (24) hours
following the personal service of or the mailing of the written notice. The
suspension or revocation is supplemental to any other proceedings provided by
this Division and does not stay any other enforcement provisions under this
Division.
Any registrant whose Certificate of Registration has been revoked may not
reapply for a Certificate of Registration until the calendar year beginning
after the year in which the Certificate of Registration has been revoked. The
Town Council may deny a Certificate of Registration to any applicant who has
had a revocation of a Certificate of Registration issued by the Town of Dyer.
(Ord. No. 80-20, § 1, 4-8-80; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-110 Bonding Requirements. 11
As used in this Division “contractor” means any person, except a licensed
architect or registered professional engineer, who in any capacity other than
as the employee of another for wages as the sole compensation, undertakes to
construct, alter, repair, move, wreck, or demolish any structure. The term
includes a subcontractor or specialty contractor, but does not include an
individual who furnishes materials or supplies.
All contractors and subcontractors, as defined above, must comply with the
provisions of Indiana state law and must provide evidence of compliance to the
Clerk-Treasurer of such compliance at the time of application for a Certificate
of Registration. Compliance is verified by presenting a recorded copy of a
United License Bond as required by Indiana Code. (Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-
13-22)
                      
11   I.C., §§ 22-11-3.1-1 through 22-11-3.1-6, address “Licensing of
contractors in Lake and Porter counties”.
Sec. 4-111 Insurance.
All contractors and subcontractors must provide a certificate of insurance in
an amount not less than single limit coverage of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for bodily injury and property damage. (Ord. No. 87-2, 1-13-87;
Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-112 Posting of Certificate of Registration.
Any person registered under this ordinance must keep a copy of the Certificate
of Registration posted in a prominent place on the premises under construction
at all times. (Ord. No. 80-20, § 1, 4-8-80; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-113 Schedule of Fees and Charges.
Any person or entity maintaining, operating, or conducting any trade or craft
constructing, remodeling, or renovating any structure in the Town of Dyer must
pay an annual license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. No. 80-20, § 1, 4-8-
80; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-114 Penalty.
Any person or entity violating any of the provisions of this ordinance is
subject to a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and
suspension or revocation of its Certificate of Registration. Each day of
violation constitutes a separate offense.
Nothing in this section limits the right of the Town of Dyer to enjoin or
restrain the maintenance, operation, or conduct of any business or occupation
for which a Certificate of Registration has not been obtained in the manner
provided in this Division. (Ord. No. 80-20, § 1, 4-8-80; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02,
§ 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-115 Sec. 4-115 through Sec. 4-118 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IX. Park, Building and Zoning Fees.
Sec. 4-119 Park and Recreation Fees.
All park and recreation fees are set forth in Chapter 5 of this Code. (Am. Ord.
No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-120 Building Fees.
All building fees are set forth in
Chapter 7 of this Code. (Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-121 Zoning and Planning Fees.
All Zoning and Planning Fees are set forth in
Chapter 10 of this Code. (Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-122 Motor Vehicle Fees.
Any and all fees related to motor vehicles are set forth in Chapter 8 of this
Code. (Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-123 Reserved for Future Use.
Division X. Miscellaneous Permits and Regulations.
Sec. 4-124 Liquor Retailer's Permits. 12
The Town acknowledges issuance by the Alcoholic Beverage Commission of Indiana
of liquor retailer’s permits to applicants otherwise duly qualified under
Indiana law with respect to premises in the Town.
(Ord. No. 157, 4-2-35; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
            
12 I.C., § 7.1-3-9-3, et seq., addresses liquor retailer's permits for small
municipalities.
Sec. 4-125 Fees for Recycling Bins.
   (a)   The initial delivery is free and absorbed in residents' solid waste
monthly fee.
   (b)   If the bin is lost or stolen, absent any fault of the resident, the
bin is replaced free of charge. The Town must maintain records of all such
replacements.
   (c)   If the second bin is lost, stolen or otherwise misplaced, the resident
must pay the Clerk-Treasurer five dollars ($5.00) for a replacement bin, and
receive the bin from the Department of Public Works.
   (d)   If the bin is damaged, other than by resident’s fault, the resident
must turn in the damaged bin to the Department of Public Works, which must then
provide a replacement bin.
(Res. No. 93-26, §§ I-IV, 10-12-93)
   (e)   These provisions are also set forth in Section 6-142 of this Code.
(Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-126 through Sec. 4-133 Reserved for Future Use.
Division XI. Franchise Agreements. 13
                                   
13 The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 (P.L. 98-549) (47 U.S.C. § 521
et seq.) governs this area.
Sec. 4-134 Town Council Approval Required.
   (a)   Because the operation of cable television systems or other utilities
in enterprises require the permission of the Town to use the public ways, the
Council has determined that it is proper and expedient to franchise such
systems.
   (b)   All such business must seek the approval of the Town Council before
initiating business in the Town of Dyer.
   (c)   All fees paid to the Town shall be properly accounted for by the
Clerk-Treasurer pursuant to applicable State Board of Accounts regulations.
(Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-135 through Sec. 4-143 Reserved for Future Use.
Division XII. Tax Abatement Procedures. 14
                                   
14 I.C. §§ 6-1.1-12.1-1 through 6-1.1-12.1-5.7, address real and personal tax
abatement procedure.
Sec. 4-144 Economic Revitalization Areas.
(Reserved) (Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-145 Administrative Charges and Fees.
   (a)   Tax abatement administrative charges and fees are hereby established
for the Town of Dyer, based on the type of tax abatement requested as set forth
in the initial statement of benefits form filed by the applicant as follows,
namely:
   REAL PROPERTY APPLICATION ONLY: (I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-3)
   Application Review Fee:   $250.00
   Clerk's Office Fee:      $250.00
   Annual Review Fee:      $150.00
   NEW EQUIPMENT APPLICATION ONLY: (I.C. 6-1.1-12.1-4.5)
   Application Review Fee:   $250.00
   Clerk's Office Fee:      $250.00
   Annual Review Fee:      $150.00
   MIXED REAL PROPERTY and NEW EQUIPMENT:
   Application Review Fee:   $350.00
   Clerk's Office Fee:      $250.00
   Annual Review Fee:      $250.00
   (b)   The designated application review fee and Clerk's Office fee in
subsection (a) above must be submitted with the statement of benefits form at
the time the same is filed. The Annual Review Fee must be paid to the Town each
year with the submission of the Compliance with statement of benefits form.
   (c)   The Clerk's Office fee is nonrefundable if tax abatement is not
granted or is withdrawn by an applicant before approval.
   (d)   An applicant who fails to file a timely, complete, and accurate annual
tax abatement report must pay a noncompliance penalty not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) as determined by the Town Council,
and may be subject to termination of further tax abatement deductions.
   (e)   Any applicant who fails to achieve the estimates set forth in the tax
abatement application, and related documentation, submitted and based upon
which the Town granted the tax abatement, is subject to a noncompliance penalty
of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each year the applicant fails to perform
or achieve the estimates set forth in its original application for tax
abatement.
   (f)   The fees and charges contained in subsections (a), (b), and (c) above
are collected by the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office, and inure to the Town’s General
Fund.
(Ord. No. 2002-23, 9-10-02; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
Sec. 4-146 through Sec. 4-153 Reserved for Future Use.
Division XIII. Licensing Fees.
Sec. 4-154 Chart on Fees.
Activity Regulation Amount Section of Code
Activity Regulation       Amount                   Section of Code
Incident Reports          $ 5.00 1st page,         §
                          $ 3.00 thereafter        4-10
Application Fee–                                §
Police Department                                  2-96
Boating                   $2.50/5.00               §
                                                   5-33
Canvasser                 $5.00/10.00/50.00        §
                                                   4-50
                                                   §
Carnivals                 $10.00                   4-26
                                                    
Demonstrations            $10.00                   §
                                                   4-26
Electronic Games          $100.00                  §
                                                   4-68
Exhibitions               $10.00                   §
                                                   4-26
Fairs                     $10.00                   §
                                                   4-26
Fishing                   $2.50/5.00               §
                                                   5-33
Motorized Bicycles        $10.00                   §
                                                   8-5
Motor Vehicle Inspections $5.00                    §
                                                   8-215
NSF Check                 $15.00 or 5% (greater)   §
                                                   4-11
Park Permits              $3.00/15.00/30.00 /50.00 §
                                                   5-30
Peddlers                  $5.00/10.00/50.00        §
                                                   4-50
Pinball Machines          $100.00                  §
                                                   4-68
Plumbing Fixtures         $5.00 to 60.00           § 4-38
Plumbing Permits          $60.00                   § 4-38
Returned Check            $15.00 or 5% (greater)   §
                                                   4-11
Solicitor                 $5.00/10.00/50.00        §
                                                   4-50
Taxicabs                  $10.00/25.00             §
                                                   4-84
Trade Shows               $50.00                   §
                                                   4-109
Volunteer Fire Department $150.00/250.00           §
                                                   4-21
 
(Ord. No. 95-20, § 2, 7-11-95; Am. Ord. No. 2022-02, § 3, 1-13-22)
CHAPTER 5
PARKS AND RECREATION
ARTICLE 1. PARKS AND RECREATION IN GENERAL.
Sec. 5-1   Authority to Operate.
Sec. 5-2   Administration of Parks and Recreation Programs.
Sec. 5-3 Through Sec. 5-5 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 5-6   Creation of Department.
Sec. 5-7   Definitions.
Sec. 5-8   Dyer Park and Recreation Board.
Sec. 5-9   Park Superintendent.
Sec. 5-10   Budget and Operating Expenses.
Sec. 5-11   Official and Fidelity Bonds.
Sec. 5-12   Contracts With Other Governmental Units.
Sec. 5-13   Savings Clause.
Sec. 5-14 Through Sec. 5-17 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. SPECIFIC REGULATIONS.
Sec. 5-18   Park Hours.
Sec. 5-19   Domestic Animals Prohibited.
Sec. 5-20   Hunting and Fishing Generally.
Sec. 5-21   Park Property Protected.
Sec. 5-22   Refuse and Litter.
Sec. 5-23   Motor Vehicle Regulations.
Sec. 5-24   Bicycle, Skateboard and Skating Regulations.
Sec. 5-25   Alcoholic Beverages.
Sec. 5-26   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 5-27   Boat Regulations.
Sec. 5-28   Motor Driven Model Toys.
Sec. 5-29   Designated Areas for Activities.
Sec. 5-30   Permit and Reservation Fees.
Sec. 5-31   Exemptions from Permit Fees.
Sec. 5-32   Amusements and Similar Rides.
Sec. 5-33   Permits for Fishing and Boating.
Sec. 5-34   Park Vegetation Protected.
Sec. 5-35   Restricted Parking.
Sec. 5-36   Penalties.
Sec. 5-37   Feeding of Wild Animals Prohibited.
Sec. 5-38 Through Sec. 5-44 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. TOWN PARKS.
Sec. 5-45   Elmer P. Miller Community Park.
Sec. 5-46 Through Sec. 5-55 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 1. PARKS AND RECREATION IN GENERAL.
Sec. 5-1 Authority to Operate. 1
The Town may establish, aid, maintain, and operate public parks, playgrounds,
and recreation facilities and programs.
                              
1   I.C., §36-10-2-2, addresses recreation facilities and programs.
Sec. 5-2 Administration of Parks and Recreation Programs.
The Park Department as addressed in Section
2-42 through Section
2-45 of this code shall be responsible for administering programs under the
Park and Recreation Law, Indiana Code, § 36-10-3-1, et seq.
Sec. 5-3 through Sec. 5-5 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 5-6 Creation of Department.
A Department of Parks and Recreation of the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana,
is created. All prior ordinances creating separate park and recreation
departments or authorities, if any, are repealed. (Ord. No. 819, § 1, 5-9-72)
Sec. 5-7 Definitions.
   “Town” means the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana.
   “Board” means the Dyer Park and Recreation Board.
   “Council” means the Town Council of the Town of Dyer.
   “Department” means the Park and Recreation Department as created hereunder.
(Ord. No. 819, § 2, 5-9-72)
   “Senior Citizen” means, for the purpose of all rules, regulations, and
resolutions passed by the Dyer Park & Recreation Department, the words “Senior
Citizen” shall be defined to be any person 55 years of age or older. (Res. No.
93-23, 9-14-93)
   “Superintendent” means the Administrative Head of the Department of Park and
Recreation responsible for a park and recreation program. (Ord. 819, § 2, 5-9-
72)
Sec. 5-8 Dyer Park and Recreation Board.
The Dyer Park and Recreation Board shall have the duties, powers, and authority
set forth in the Indiana Park and Recreation Law, Indiana Code, § 36-10-3-1, et
seq. (Ord. No. 83-16, 4-12-8)
Sec. 5-9 Park Superintendent.
The Park Superintendent shall have the powers and duties set forth pursuant to
Indiana Code, § 36-10-3-13.
Sec. 5-10 Budget and Operating Expenses.
   (a)   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget to the Town
Council in the same manner as other Departments of the Town, as prescribed by
the State Board of Accounts.
   (b)   The Town Council as they might determine shall provide the revenues
necessary for the operation of the Department and for capital expenditures not
provided by the issuance of bonds, or both, by a specific levy to be used for
such purposes exclusively or by special appropriation, or both. (Ord. No. § 5,
5-9-72).
Sec. 5-11 Official and Fidelity Bonds. 2
   (a)   Each person and each employee who may be charged with the duty of
handling any funds in the performance of his or her duties as authorized or
directed by the provision of this Article shall execute an official bond for
his or her term. The bonds required shall be individual surety company public
official bonds continued on the faithful performance of duties and the penal
amount of the bonds shall be fixed by Resolution of the Town Council, from year
to year and if no Resolution be adopted, the amount to be fixed at One Thousand
Dollars ($1,000.00), or the amount required by applicable state law.
   (b)   All monies received by or on account of said Department shall be paid
over and delivered to the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Dyer to be accounted
for and disbursed according to law. (Ord. No. 819, § 6, 5-9-72).
                              
2   I.C., § 36-10-3-16, addresses bonds.
Sec. 5-12 Contracts With Other Governmental Units.
The Board may contract with another like Board, a governmental unit, department
or agency, or with a person for property, facilities or services; but the Board
shall have no authority to contract with a person, corporation or private
agency for the operation of a park or recreation program. (Ord. No. 819, § 7,
5-9-72).
Sec. 5-13 Saving Clause.
The Board shall succeed to and continue all park and recreational functional
activities lawfully exercised by the Town Council prior to the enactment of
this Ordinance, and any rights or obligations that have vested on behalf of or
against park and recreation authorities, if any, the existence of which are
terminated by the repeal of any prior ordinance, if any, shall remain in full
force and effect as rights or as obligations of the Board as its successor. All
physical effects and property which shall or ought to belong to a park and
recreation authority shall be transferred to the Board. (Ord. No. 819, § 8, 5-
9-72)
Sec. 5-14 through Sec. 5-17 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. SPECIFIC REGULATIONS.
Sec. 5-18 Park Hours.
   (a)   No person shall remain or be in any part of any park between dusk and
dawn, without permission of the Park Board. (Ord. No. 83-11, Art. § 1, 3-8-83)
   (b)   The Dyer Town Parks shall be open to the public three hundred and
sixty-five (365) days each year. (Ord. No. 89-7, 2-14-89)
Sec. 5-19 Domestic Animals.
No domestic animal or otherwise is permitted within the Dyer Town Park District
properties, or perimeters of said properties, except as authorized in
designated areas by the Board of Directors of the Town of Dyer, Department of
Parks and Recreation. (Ord. No. 993, Art. II, § 1, 4-13-76; Am. Ord. No. 2009-
09, 8-19-09)
Sec. 5-20 Hunting and Fishing Generally.
No fishing without permit, hunting, seining, netting, gigging, molesting or
pursuit of any animal, in any manner, shall be permitted within the Dyer Town
Park District properties, provided, however, that for educational purposes,
exceptions may be granted for examination, study, research and collection of
specimens of wildlife or vegetation within park areas. (Ord. No. 993, Art. II,
§ 2, 4-13-76)
Sec. 5-21 Park Property Protected.
No person shall cut, break, climb on, or in any way injure or deface any
lamppost, hydrant, curbstone, coping, fence, wall fence, building or other
construction or property in any park. (Ord. No. 993, Art. II, § 3, 4-13-76)
Sec. 5-22 Refuse and Litter.
No person or group of persons shall discharge any sewage or refuse matter, or
in any form pollute or otherwise contaminate any lake or stream in the Dyer
Town Park District; nor shall any person burn any combustible materials within
park areas, except in receptacles provided for that purpose, nor shall any
person deposit, dump or litter in such park areas any paper, garbage, refuse or
trash except in receptacles provided for that purpose. (Ord. No. 993, Art. II,
§ 4, 4-13-76)
Sec. 5-23 Motor Vehicle Regulations.
The operation and use of all motor vehicles within the confines of park areas
is strictly prohibited except for parking in designated parking areas or
operation of a motor vehicles on designated roadways. The term motor vehicle
includes, but is not limited to, automobiles, motorbikes, trailbikes,
snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles. (Ord. No. 993, Art. 11, § 5, 4-13-76; Am.
Ord. No. 2006-02, 2-15-06)
Sec. 5-24 Bicycle, Skateboard and Skating Regulations.
No person shall utilize roller skates or inline skates, or other similar sports
equipment on park property except in designated areas. No person shall ride any
bicycle, skateboard, scooter, or other similar vehicle on park property or on
any of the sidewalks of any park or in any of the buildings or adjacent shelter
areas except in designated areas and pathways. (Ord. No. 993, Art. 11, § 6, 4-
13-76; Am. Ord. No. 2006-02, 2-15-06)
Sec. 5-25 Alcoholic Beverages.
The possession and use of alcoholic beverages within the confines of any park
is prohibited. No alcoholic beverages shall be sold, bought, given away or
consumed in any park facility within the Town of Dyer unless with written
permission of the Park Board. All individuals or organizations must have a
license or permit to sell alcoholic beverages. (Ord. No. 993, Art. 11, § 7, 4-
13-76)
Sec. 5-26 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 5-27 Boat Regulations.
No person shall operate a motorized boat on any lake or stream within the Dyer
Town Park District. Non-motorized boats may be operated by permit only. (Ord.
No. 993, Art. 11, § 9, 4-13-76)
Sec. 5-28 Motor Driven Model Toys.
The operation of miniature motor driven toys, including but not limited to,
boats, airplanes, rockets or automobiles is expressly prohibited. The Park
Board, however, may in their judgment, set aside days or times during which
public displays or operation of such miniature airplanes, rockets or
automobiles, properly supervised, may be made. (Ord. No. 993, Art. II, § 10, 4-
13-76; Am. Ord. No. 2006-02, 2-15-06)
Sec. 5-29 Designated Areas for Activities.
Any athletic games, amusements, sports, exercises, or activities, shall be
carried on in areas designated for such purposes provided, however, that should
such facilities not be in existence, then such activities may be carried on in
a reasonable manner. The playing of golf or the driving of golf balls is
prohibited within the Dyer Park System. (Ord. No. 993, Art. 11, § 11, 4-13-76)
Sec. 5-30 Permit and Reservation Fees.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 2025-
04, adopted 4-17-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below
when the ordinance is codified.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 2025-
08, adopted 7-17-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below
when the ordinance is codified.
   (a)   All organized groups of at least ten (10) people and all non-profit
and business organizations may occupy facilities as designed by the Park Board
through permits.
   (b)   Permits issued are not valid for the entire park, but for only the
area designated by the permit. The Park Board may consider applications for
permits for events with attendance anticipated to exceed facility capacity on a
case-by-case basis based upon the size of the area requested and the number of
attendees.
   (c)   The following permit fees are established:
Shelter Rental Fees:*
The following rental fees apply to the Town’s shelters (or pavilions):
Elmer Miller Park Shelter
   Friday-Sunday/Town Holiday:      Dyer Resident:      $110/hr, $60/hr for
minimum 3-hour rental
                     Nonresident:          $300/hr, $160/hr for minimum 3-hour
rental
   Monday-Thursday:            Dyer Resident:      $40/hr, $20/hr for minimum
3-hour rental
                     Nonresident:          $100/hr, $60/hr for minimum 3-hour
rental
Northgate Park Shelter
   Friday-Sunday/Town Holiday:      Dyer Resident:      $160/hr, $80/hr for
minimum 3-hour rental
                     Nonresident:          $400/hr, $210/hr for minimum 3-hour
rental
   Monday-Thursday:            Dyer Resident:      $50/hr, $30/hr for minimum
3-hour rental
                     Nonresident:          $120/hr, $80/hr for minimum 3-hour
rental
Central Park Shelter
   Friday-Sunday/Town Holiday:      Dyer Resident:      $180/hr, $90/hr for
minimum 3-hour rental
                     Nonresident:          $440/hr, $240/hr for minimum 3-hour
rental
   Monday-Thursday:            Dyer Resident:      $70/hr, $40/hr for minimum
3-hour rental
                     Nonresident:          $200/hr, $100/hr for minimum 3-hour
rental
Pheasant Hills Park South Shelter
   Friday-Sunday/Town Holiday:      Dyer Resident:      $150/hr, $80/hr for
minimum 3-hour rental
                     Nonresident:          $380/hr, $200/hr for minimum 3-hour
rental
   Monday-Thursday:            Dyer Resident:      $40/hr, $20/hr for minimum
3-hour rental
                     Nonresident:          $100/hr, $60/hr for minimum 3-hour
rental
Pheasant Hills Park North Shelter
   Friday-Sunday/Town Holiday:      Dyer Resident:      $110/hr, $60/hr for
minimum 3-hour rental
                     Nonresident:          $280/hr, $160/hr for minimum 3-hour
rental
   Monday-Thursday:            Dyer Resident:      $25/hr, $15/hr for minimum
3-hour rental
                     Nonresident:          $70/hr, $50/hr for minimum 3-hour
rental
   * Indiana sales tax is collected on all above fees.
Athletic Field Rental Fees:
   In addition to paying the fees stated in this subsection, groups and
organizations must provide a certificate of insurance naming the Town of Dyer
as an additional insured, showing a minimum of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) in liability coverage.
   Residents      $25 per hour
   Non-residents   $50 per hour
   Groups and organizations are considered residents if at least fifty-one
percent (51%) of its members reside in the Town of Dyer. All groups must submit
an up-to-date roster of all current members as part of its application if it is
to receive the resident rate.
   All reservation fees are refundable to the applicant only at the discretion
of the Parks Board.
Plum Creek Center Rental Fees:
The following rental fees apply to Plum Creek Center:
Friday through Sunday and Town Holidays
   For 4-hour rental:         Dyer Resident:   $350.00
                  Dyer Nonresident:   $450.00
   For 2-hour rental:         Dyer Resident:   $200.00
                  Dyer Nonresident:   $250.00
   For each additional hour:      Dyer Resident:   $90.00
                  Dyer Nonresident:   $115.00
Monday through Thursday
   Hourly (only option):         Dyer Resident:   $60.00
                  Dyer Nonresident:   $80.00
                  Dyer Nonprofit:   $50.00
All four-hour rentals include a free hour before for set up and a free hour
after for clean-up added to their rental time. All two-hour rentals include a
free half-hour before for set up and a free half-hour after for clean-up added
to their rental time. Indiana sales tax is collected on all above fees.
   (d)   Vendor-Provided Program Fees. For programs provided by third-party
vendors, the Parks Department may charge a fee to participants not to exceed
150% of the vendor’s charge to the Town for each participant. The fee
percentage must be identical for all such programs.
   (e)   Security Deposit and Cleanup Charges.
The following security deposit is to be paid for rentals under this Section:
   Dyer resident:      $100.00
   Non-resident:      $300.00
The security deposit is refundable only if the permit holder leaves the rented
facility in substantially the same condition as when its occupancy of the
facility began. Any condition requiring cleanup by Dyer Park and Recreation
personnel, or any damage to the park or equipment in the park by facility
occupants requiring repair, are charged against the security deposit at the
discretion of the Parks Board. Nothing in this provision limits the Town of
Dyer from seeking all available remedies against the permit holder, including
recovery of all attorney’s fees. If approved, the security deposit is returned
by mail to the permit holder within sixty (60) days after the reservation date.
   (f)   Reduced Fees and Exemptions.
      (1)   The following permit holders receive fifty percent (50%) off the
fees in this Section:
         a.   Schools located in Dyer;
         b.   Homeschooling associations located in Dyer;
         c.   Service clubs serving Dyer;
         d.   Veterans’ organizations;
         e.   Organizations of Dyer police officers;
         f.   Religious organizations located in Dyer; and
         g.   Full-time employees of Dyer.
      (2)   Town of Dyer departments, Parks Department programs, boards,
commissions, and volunteer committees are exempt from fees.
      (3)   The provisions of this Subsection do not apply to rental fees for
Plum Creek Center.
   (g)   Disposition of Revenue. The Clerk-Treasurer must deposit: (1) all
shelter rental fees into the Parks and Recreation Fund; (2) all athletic field
rental fees and Plum Creek Center rental fees into the Parks Activities Fund;
and (3) all cleanup and damage deposits into the Parks Escrow Fund.
(Ord. No. 96-14, 8-13-96; Am. Ord. No. 98-02, 1-13-98; Am. Ord. No. 98-12, 7-
14-98; Am. Ord. No. 98-16, § 1, 9-8-98; Am. Ord. No. 2002- 12, 4-16-02; Am.
Ord. No. 2002-40, 12-17-02; Am. Ord. No. 2005-20, 11-16-05; Am. Ord. No. 2007-
27, 12-19-07; Am. Ord. No. 2010-02, 2-3- 10; Am. Ord. No. 2013-02, § 1, 3-14-
13; Am. Ord. No. 2022-13, § 1, 8-17-22; Am. Ord. No. 2023-19, § 1, 7-19-23)
Sec. 5-31 Exemptions from Permit Fees.
Permit and reservation fees for any organization may be waived at the
discretion of the Dyer Parks and Recreation Board.
(Ord. No. 87-4, 2-10-87; Am. Ord. No. 98-02, 1-13-98)
Sec. 5-32 Amusements and Similar Rides.
No person or group of persons shall operate amusements, rides or devices in any
park within the Dyer Town Park District without the written permission of the
Park Board.
(Ord. No. 993, Art. III, § 2, 4-13-76)
Sec. 5-33 Permits for Fishing and Boating. 3
   (a)   A permit for fishing and boating must be obtained in order to fish or
boat in a Dyer Park. All persons sixteen (16) years of age and older must have
a fishing or boating permit to engage in these activities in a Dyer Park. Dyer
residents may obtain a fishing or boating permit upon application at the Dyer
Clerk-Treasurer's Office and the payment of a two dollar and fifty cent ($2.50)
annual fee.
   (b)   Non-residents may obtain a fishing or boating permit from the Clerk-
Treasurer's Office upon application and the payment of a five dollar ($5.00)
annual fee.
   (c)   Permit fees will be waived for Senior Citizens.
   (d)   Permits are issued from January 2 of each year and are good for the
remainder of that year.
   (e)   Boating permits apply only to non-motorized boats, fishing permits do
not substitute for an Indiana fishing license.
(Ord. No. 83-11, Art. III, § 3, 3-8-83)
                                     
3   Editor's Note: The Board of Park and Recreation defined a senior citizen as
a person age 55 years or older at its August 2, 1993.
Sec. 5-34 Park Vegetation.
   (a)   No person shall remove, destroy, break, cut, deface, trim or in any
way injure or interfere with any tree or shrub that is within the park
district. Provided, however, that this Section shall not apply to Town
employees working in the course of their employment.
(Ord. No. 993, Art. IV, § I, 4-13-76)
   (b)   No person shall move, injure or misuse any guard or device placed or
intended to protect any tree, plant or shrub growing within the park district.
(Ord. No. 993, Art. IV, § 2, 4-13-76)
   (c)   No person shall, without the written consent of the Park Board, attach
any electrical wire, insulator, or any other device or object to any tree
growing within the park district.
(Ord. No. 993, Art. IV, § 3, 4-13-76)
Sec. 5-35 Restricted Parking.
Parking will be restricted to designated parking facilities only. Vehicles left
inside of the park after closing hours will be fined and/or towed away at the
owner's expense.
(Ord. No. 993, Art. IV, § 4, 4-13-76)
Sec. 5-36 Penalties.
Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter shall be deemed guilty of
an ordinance violation and shall be fined a minimum sum of fifty dollars
($50.00).
(Ord. No. 993 Art. V, § 1, 4-13-76; Am. Ord. No. 89-38, 10-10-89)
Sec. 5-37 Feeding of Wild Animals Prohibited.
   (a)   No person shall feed or otherwise attempt to feed any geese, ducks, or
other waterfowl within the Dyer Park District properties, or perimeters of said
properties.
   (b)   Any person who violates this section shall be deemed guilty of an
ordinance violation and shall be fined a minimum sum of fifty dollars ($50.00)
in accordance with Sec. 5-36.
(Ord. No. 2000-16, 7-18-00)
Sec. 5-38 through Sec. 5-44 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. TOWN PARKS.
Sec. 5-45 Elmer P. Miller Community Park.
Upon the recommendation of the Dyer Lions Club, and in recognition of Elmer P.
Miller's many fine attributes befitting the character of the man who nurtured
the young to a ripe and wholesome maturity, that henceforth, in his honor, the
Town Park located and fronting on Schulte Street, in Dyer, Lake County,
Indiana, shall be known and is designated as the “Elmer P. Miller Community
Park”, and the Town Council is authorized to take such further actions as
appropriate to assure this designation and commemoration.
(Res. No. 770, 10-13-70).
Sec. 5-46 through Sec. 5-55 Reserved for Future Use.
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 6-1   Town's Authority to Regulate.
Sec. 6-2   Preservation of Public Peace and Order.
Sec. 6-3   Authority to Regulate Air and Sound.
Sec. 6-4   Authority to Regulate Public Gateways.
Sec. 6-5   Authority to Establish a Police and Law Enforcement System.
Sec. 6-6   Authority to Establish Firefighters and Fire Prevention System.
Sec. 6-7   Offenses Against Public Health, Order and Decency.
Sec. 6-8   through Sec. 6-14 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. REGULATIONS GOVERNING ALCOHOLIC CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
Sec. 6-15   Definitions.
Sec. 6-16   Consumption or Possession Prohibited.
Sec. 6-17   Operation Prohibited.
Sec. 6-18   Citations.
Sec. 6-19   Enforcement and Penalty.
Sec. 6-20   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 6-21   Force and Effect.
Sec. 6-22 through Sec. 6-24 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. SPRINKLING REGULATIONS.
Sec. 6-25   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 6-26   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 6-27   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 6-28   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 6-29   Council to Declare Sprinkling Ban.
Sec. 6-30   Penalties.
Sec. 6-31 through Sec. 6-33 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. AUTOMATIC AND MANUAL ALARM SYSTEMS.
Sec. 6-34   Definitions.
Sec. 6-35   Permitted Devices.
Sec. 6-36   Monitoring System.
Sec. 6-37   Permit Required.
Sec. 6-38   Application for Permit.
Sec. 6-39   Certification by Alarm Equipment Supplier for Alarms Which Require
a Permit.
Sec. 6-40   Inspection.
Sec. 6-41   Local Alarms.
Sec. 6-42   Fines Applicable for False Alarms.
Sec. 6-43   Revocation of Permit.
Sec. 6-44   Disconnection and Reconnection.
Sec. 6-45   Hold Harmless.
Sec. 6-46   Separability.
Sec. 6-47   Penalty.
Sec. 6-48 and Sec. 6-49 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 5. FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION.
Sec. 6-50   Installation Requirement of Smoke Detectors.
Sec. 6-51   Adoption of Fire Prevention Codes.
Sec. 6-52   Inspection of Premises for Fire Hazards.
Sec. 6-53   Rapid Access Key Boxes; Security Connections Caps and Gates.
Sec. 6-54   Violations, Penalties.
Sec. 6-55   Fire Protection Systems and Equipment.
Sec. 6-56   Certificate of Occupancy Requirements.
Sec. 6-57   Contractor Inspection Portal.ARTICLE 6. PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   Division I. Overall Guidelines to Article.
Sec. 6-58   Definitions.
Sec. 6-59   Illustrations Enumerated–Weeds, Rubbish, Noise, Odors, Junk
Vehicles, Etc.
Sec. 6-60   Enforcement and Penalties.
Sec. 6-61 and Sec. 6-62 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division II. Lewd Films and Sale of Obscene Publications.
Sec. 6-63   Policy.
Sec. 6-64   Definitions.
Sec. 6-65   Lewd Films and Theaters.
Sec. 6-66   Stock in Trade.
Sec. 6-67   Possession.
Sec. 6-68   Enforcement and Penalties.
Sec. 6-69   Knowledge Presumed.
Sec. 6-70   Judgment and Forfeiture.
Sec. 6-71   Severability.
Sec. 6-72 through Sec. 6-74 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 7. HUMANE CONTROL AND REGULATIONS OF ANIMALS.
Sec. 6-75   Definitions.
Sec. 6-76   Town Manager Responsibilities.
Sec. 6-77   Licensing.
Sec. 6-78   Permits and Fees.
Sec. 6-79   License and Permit Issuance and Revocation.
Sec. 6-80   Restraint.
Sec. 6-81   Impoundment and Violation Notice.
Sec. 6-82   Animal Care.
Sec. 6-83   Keeping of Exotic Animals.
Sec. 6-84   Keeping of Animals Classified as Farm Animals.
Sec. 6-85   Performing Animal Exhibitions.
Sec. 6-86   Animal Waste.
Sec. 6-87   Sterilization.
Sec. 6-88   Enforcement.
Sec. 6-89   Penalties.
Sec. 6-90   Exceptions.
Sec. 6-91   Trapping.
Sec. 6-92   Wild Animals.
Sec. 6-93    Prohibiting Pet Sales.
Sec. 6-94   Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 8. FIREWORKS REGULATIONS.
Sec. 6-95   Definitions.
Sec. 6-96   Special Permit.
Sec. 6-97   Use and Discharge, Generally.
Sec. 6-98   Manufacturer, Wholesaler, Importer or Distributor.
Sec. 6-99   Identification of Fireworks.
Sec. 6-100   Sales.
Sec. 6-101   Revocation of Special Permit.
Sec. 6-102   Penalty.
Sec. 6-103 Through Sec. 6-109 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 9. REGULATION OF AIR RIFLES, AIR PISTOLS AND SLING SHOTS.
Sec. 6-110   Discharging in Public Ways Prohibited.
Sec. 6-111   Consent of Owner Required.
Sec. 6-112   Impoundment.
Sec. 6-113   Penalties.
Sec. 6-114 Through Sec. 6-115 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 10. HUNTING WITH FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
Sec. 6-116   Hunting Prohibited.
Sec. 6-117   Shooting of Firearms Prohibited-Exception.
Sec. 6-118   Minors.
Sec. 6-119   Penalties.
Sec. 6-120 Through Sec. 6-123 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 11. SIDEWALKS FREE OF ICE AND SNOW.
Sec. 6-124   Duty to Remove Ice and Snow.
Sec. 6-125   Penalties.
Sec. 6-126 and Sec. 6-127 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 12. CURFEW REGULATIONS.
Sec. 6-128   Minor Curfew.
Sec. 6-129   Violations.
Sec. 6-130   Penalty.
Sec. 6-131 Through Sec. 6-133 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 13. DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
Sec. 6-134   Definitions.
Sec. 6-135   Proper Disposal Required.
Sec. 6-136   Container Regulations.
Sec. 6-137   Collection By the Town.
Sec. 6-138   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 6-139   Location of Dumpster Units on Commercial Real Estate.
Sec. 6-140   Rubbish Fires Prohibited.
Sec. 6-141   Enforcement and Penalties.
Sec. 6-142   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 6-143 Through Sec. 6-149 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 14. ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU.
Sec. 6-150   Ordinance Violation Bureau Established.
Sec. 6-151   Clerk-Treasurer to be Administrator of the Bureau.
Sec. 6-152 Through Sec. 6-159 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 15. HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC MATERIAL SPILLS AND LEAKS.
Sec. 6-160   Service Charges for Hazardous or Toxic Material Spills and Leaks.
Sec. 6-161   Reimbursement Procedures.
Sec. 6-162   Clean-Up Contractors and Direct Payment Procedures.
Sec. 6-163   Billing Procedures.
Sec. 6-164   Penalty for Non-Payment.
Sec. 6-165 through Sec. 6-169 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 16. SMOKING IN PUBLIC AREAS.
Sec. 6-170   Town Hall Smoking Regulations.
Sec. 6-171   Penalty
Sec. 6-172 through Sec. 6-175 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 17. TREES AND FLORA.
Sec. 6-180   Title.
Sec. 6-181   Purpose and Intent.
Sec. 6-182   Definitions.
Sec. 6-183   Jurisdiction.
Sec. 6-184   Tree Program Supervisor.
Sec. 6-185   Appeals.
Sec. 6-186   Enforcement.
Sec. 6-187   Performance Evaluation of Article.
Sec. 6-188   Severability.
Sec. 6-189   Local Government Disclaimer of Liability.
Sec. 6-190   Responsibility of Property Owners.
Sec. 6-191   Penalties for Tree Removal and Damage Violations.
Sec. 6-192   Penalty for Planting, Arboricultural Work or Encroachment
Violations.
Sec. 6-193   Topping Prohibited.
Sec. 6-194   Action on Failure to Abate.
Sec. 6-195   Procedural and Labor Charges.
Sec. 6-196   Resolution of Conflicts Between Trees and Structures.
Sec. 6-197   Situations Which are Declared to be a Public Nuisance.
Sec. 6-198   Destruction of Diseased or Hazardous Trees and Plants.
Sec. 6-199   Abatement of Hazards and Public Nuisances.
Sec. 6-200   Cleanup of Trimmings.
Sec. 6-201   Permit Required For Any Planting Within Town Right-of-Way.
Sec. 6-202   Landscape Structures Prohibited.
Sec. 6-203   Harming Public Trees Forbidden.
Sec. 6-204   Licensing of Private Tree Care Firms.
Sec. 6-205   Conservation of Forest and Woodland Resources During Development.
Sec. 6-206   Prohibited Species List.
Sec. 6-207 through Sec. 6-210 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 18. REGULATING STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Sec. 6-211   Definitions.
Sec. 6-212   Restrictions.
Sec. 6-213   Penalty.
Sec. 6-214    Exemptions.
Sec. 6-215 through Sec. 6-220 reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 6-1 Town's Authority To Regulate. 1
The Town may regulate the conduct, or use or possession of property which might
endanger the public health, safety, or welfare of its citizens.
                              
1   I.C., §36-8-2-4, authorizes the regulation of conduct and property for
reasons of public health, safety and welfare.
Sec. 6-2 Preservation of Public Peace and Order. 2
The Town may establish, maintain, and operate a police and law enforcement
system to preserve public peace and order and may provide facilities and
equipment for that system.
                              
2   I.C., §36-8-2-2, sets forth the authority to preserve public peace and
order.
Sec. 6-3 Authority to Regulate Air and Sound. 3
The Town may regulate the introduction of any substance or odor into the air,
or any generation of sound.
                              
3   I.C., §36-8-2-8, authorizes the regulation of air and sound.
Sec. 6-4 Authority to Regulate Public Gatherings. 4
The Town may regulate public gatherings, such as shows, demonstrations, fairs,
conventions, sporting events, and exhibitions.
                              
4   I.C., §36-8-2-4, authorizes the regulation of public gathering.
Sec. 6-5 Authority to Establish a Police and Law Enforcement System. 5
The Town may establish, maintain, and operate a police and law enforcement
system to preserve public peace and order and may provide facilities and
equipment for that system.
                              
5   I.C., §36-8-2-4, sets forth the authority to establish a police and law
enforcement system.
Sec. 6-6 Authority to Establish Firefighter and Fire Prevention System. 6
The Town may establish, maintain, and operate a fire fighting and fire
prevention system and may provide facilities and equipment for that system.
                              
6   I.C., §36-8-2-3, sets forth the authority to establish a fire fighting
system.
Sec. 6-7 Offenses Against Public Health, Order and Decency. 7
   (a)   All offenses against public health, order or decency not addressed by
this Code shall be governed by applicable State Statute.
   (b)   Except as specifically set forth herein, any violation of any
provision of this Chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided by Sec. 1-
11 of this Code.
                              
7   I.C., §35-45-1-1, et seq., addresses such offenses.
Sec. 6-8 through Sec. 6-14 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. REGULATIONS GOVERNING ALCOHOLIC CONTAINERS IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
Sec. 6-15 Definitions.
For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply:
   a.   Alcoholic beverage. The term “alcoholic beverage” means a liquid or
solid
      (1)   Is, or contains, one-half percent (0.5%) or more alcohol by volume:
used as a beverage.
      (2)   Is, fit for human consumption; and
      (3)   Is reasonably likely, or intended to be.
   b.   Container. The term “container” means a receptacle in which an
alcoholic beverage is immediately contained and with which the alcoholic
beverage contained in it is in immediate contact.
   c.   Motor vehicle. “Motor vehicle” shall have the meaning set forth in
Indiana Code, § 9-13-2-105A, except that “Motor Vehicle” as used in this
Article, shall not include any chartered passenger vehicle licensed to operate
within the State of Indiana. (Ord. No. 92-20, § 1, 7-14-92)
Sec. 6-16 Consumption or Possession Prohibited.
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly consume an alcoholic beverage or
possess a container that has been opened, that has a broken seal, or from which
some of the content have been remove while in a motor vehicle that is being
operated upon a public highway, street or alley within the Town of Dyer,
Indiana. (Ord. No. 92-20, § 2, 7-14-92)
Sec. 6-17 Operation Prohibited.
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle upon a public
highway, street or alley to knowingly keep or allow to be kept in any area of
the motor vehicle that is accessible to the driver or passengers a container
that has been opened, that has a broken seal, or from which some of the
contents have been removed.
   (b)   Open alcoholic containers that are left over from any type of outing
must be placed in the vehicle trunk. If there is no trunk, the container must
be placed farthest to the back of the vehicle and put into a closed box, bag or
container, out of the reach of the driver or passengers, so that they may not
be able to consume the alcoholic beverage. Licensed caterers may transport open
containers of alcoholic beverages so long as no human consumption occurs during
transporting to and from the destination. (Ord. No. 92-20, § 3, 7-14-92)
   (c)   It is a defense to this article that the container is in the motor
vehicle for the purpose of recycling and not for consumption while in the
vehicle. The person shall bear the burden of establishing the fact that the
open container was in the vehicle for the purpose of recycling. (Ord. No. 92-
20, § 6, 7-14-92; Am. Ord. No. 2000-09, 5-16-00)
Sec. 6-18 Citations.
An officer of the Town of Dyer Metropolitan Police Department shall issue a
local ordinance citation or uniform complaint and summons, on a form prescribed
for such purposes by the Department for such use, to a person who violates this
article of the Town Code. (Ord. No. 92-20, § 4, 7-14-92; Am. Ord. No. 2000-09,
5-16-00)
Sec. 6-19 Enforcement and Penalty.
Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this article shall be fined
fifty dollars ($50.00). Twenty-five dollars ($25.00) of the fine shall be
deposited into the Town Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund (LECEF) for
the purposes as set forth and permitted by Town Code Section
2-187 as amended from time to time. The remaining portion of the fine in the
amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) shall be deposited to the Town General
Fund. Each offense of violation of this article shall be deemed a separate
offense, with separate fines for each as set forth herein. All such fines shall
be paid to the Local Ordinance Violations Bureau, administered by the Clerk-
Treasurer of the Town. (Ord. No. 92-20, § 5, 7-14-92; Am. Ord. No. 2000-09, 5-
16-00)
Sec. 6-20 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 6-21 Force and Effect.
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption and publication
under Indiana Code, § 5-3-1. (Ord. No. 92-20, § 7, 7-14-92)
Sec. 6-22 through Sec. 6-24 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. SPRINKLING REGULATIONS.
Sec. 6-25 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 6-26 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 6-27 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 6-28 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 6-29 Council to Declare Sprinkling Ban.
The Town Council shall have the authority, by majority vote, to declare a
severe water shortage. Upon the Town Council's declaring a severe water
shortage, the Town Council shall have the authority to place any and all
regulations into effect regarding sprinkling or other outside hose usage,
including but not limited to a total ban upon sprinkling or other outside hose
usage, that the Town Council may deem necessary to alleviate the severe water
shortage to the benefit of the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the Town. (Ord. No. 92-21, § 5, 7-14-92; Am. Ord. No. 95-12, § 2, 4-11-95)
Sec. 6-30 Penalties.
Any person or firm who violates the terms and provisions of this Ordinance
shall be fined as follows:
   For the first violation   $50.00
   For the second violation   $200.00
   For all subsequent violations   $500.00
(Ord. No. 92-21, § 6, 7-14-92)
Sec. 6-31 through Sec. 6-33 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. AUTOMATIC AND MANUAL ALARM SYSTEMS.
Sec. 6-34 Definitions.
The following definitions shall be applicable for the purpose of this Article:
   (a)   Alarm Equipment Supplier. Any person that sells, leases, installs or
otherwise deals in automatic protection devices or signaling devices which
transmit alarms upon a stimulus from a detection apparatus or a manually
operated system.
   (b)   Alarm Conditions. Alarms activated by unlawful violation of a user's
property, other violations that the systems were designed to protect against,
acts of God, other violent conditions, outside agencies, hazards or external
forces not under the control of the owner, lessee or his or her employee or
agent.
   (c)   Alarm User. Any person on whose premises an alarm system is maintained
within the Town of Dyer, including those systems which employ an audible signal
emitting sounds or a flashing light or beacon designed to alert or signal
persons outside of the premises.
   (d)   Alarm System. An assembly of equipment and devices, such as a solid
state unit, arranged to signal the presence of a hazard urgent attention and to
which the Police or Fire Department are expected to respond.
   (e)   Central Station. A facility whose prime purpose is to monitor incoming
alarm signals 24 hours a day and relay the signal information to the
appropriate authorities.
   (f)   Direct Line. A data line leading directly into the communications
center of the Police Department that is for use only to report signals on a
station-to-station basis.
   (g)   False Alarms. The activation of an alarm system caused by improper
operation, negligence of the owner or lessee or his or her employee or agent,
or equipment malfunction.
   (h)   Local Alarms. A signaling system which, when activated, causes an
audible and/or visual signaling device to be activated in or on the premises
within which the system is installed.
   (i)   Person. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association or
society, but such term does not include the Town of Dyer.
   (j)   Police Chief. The Chief of the Police Department of the Town of Dyer,
or his or her authorized representative.
   (k)   Public Trunkline. A data line leading into the communications center
of the Police Department that is for the purpose of handling emergency and
administrative calls on a person-to-person basis.
   (l)   Signal Board. A system located in the Police Department to receive
data signals over direct lines to note a fire, burglary or other emergency a
specific locations within the Town of Dyer.
   (m)   Signaling Device. An electrically operated instrument which
automatically sends data signals to be registered by indicators at a monitor
panel at the receiving terminal or central station.
   (n)   Town. The Town of Dyer, Indiana.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 1, 2-12-85; Am. Ord. No. 2006-04, 4-19-06)
Sec. 6-35 Permitted Devices.
Permitted Devices. No person shall use or cause or permit to be used, an alarm
system utilizing signaling devices that automatically select a public trunkline
of the Police Department of the Town of Dyer and then reproduce any prerecorded
message to report any robbery, burglary, fire, hazard or other emergency.
With the exception of local alarms, only signaling devices shall be permitted
to be installed in the Town for the purpose of reporting any robbery, burglary,
fire, hazard or other emergency to the Police Department of the Town. For alarm
systems other than those that are directly linked to the Police Department of
the Town of Dyer, the central station must call the premises at which the alarm
has been activated in an effort to ascertain the validity of the alarm, before
calling or relaying the alarm to the Dyer Police Department.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 2, 2-12-85; Am. Ord. No. 2006-04, 4-19-06)
Sec. 6-36 Monitoring Systems.
The Police Department of the Town is authorized to contract for the
installation of and maintain a signal board within the Police Department of the
Town.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 3, 2-12-85)
Sec. 6-37 Permit Required.
   (a)   Multi-family (three (3) units and above), commercial and industrial
users, as well as any user who is directly connected to the signal board at the
Dyer Police Department shall be required to obtain a permit prior to installing
an alarm system.
   (b)   Any alarm user, as noted above, who operates an alarm system without
first obtaining authorization as required by this Section, or who, after having
an authorization revoked, fails to disconnect his or her alarm System, shall be
in violation of this Article.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 4, 2-12-85; Am. Ord. No. 2006-04, 4-19-06)
Sec. 6-38 Application for Permit.
Applications for permits to install, maintain, and operate an alarm system
shall be filed with the Clerk- Treasurer of the Town. If an electrical permit
is required to install the alarm the permit fee shall be a total of sixty
dollars ($60.00). If there is no electrical permit required, the permit fee
shall be ten dollars ($10.00), for alarm systems to be installed, maintained,
and operated for multi-family uses (three (3) units and above), by merchants,
and businesses, for Commercial and Industrial Use. If said alarm system is
directly linked to the signal board at the Dyer Police Station, the alarm
permit must be renewed on an annual basis in January of each new calendar year.
The alarm user applying for the authorization required shall state on the
application form the following:
      (1)   His or her name.
      (2)   The address of the residence, or business or businesses in or upon
which the alarm system has been or will be installed, together with the
telephone number.
      (3)   The type of alarm system (burglar signaling device, holdup
signalling device, fire signaling device).
      (4)   The alarm equipment supplier selling, installing, monitoring,
inspecting, responding to and/or maintaining the alarm system.
      (5)   The name and telephone number of at least two (2) other persons (in
case of a corporate alarm user applicant) and at least three (3) persons who
can be reached at any time, day or night, and who can open the premises in
which the system is installed.
      (6)   The alarm user shall provide updates when changes occur in the
contact persons.
The information contained in an alarm user authorization application required
by this Section and other information received by the Police Chief through
correspondence or communications with an alarm user shall be securely
maintained.
Upon issuance of the permit the Clerk-Treasurer shall distribute the
information therein to the Police Chief.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 5, 2-12-85; Am. Ord. No. 2001-26, 10-16-01; Am. Ord. No.
2006-04, 4-19-06; Am. Ord. No. 2011-01, 2-10-11)
Sec. 6-39 Certification by Alarm Equipment Supplier for Alarms Which Require a
Permit.
   (a)   Within ten (10) days after the initial installation of an alarm
system, and within ten (10) days after a modification of an existing alarm
system, the alarm equipment supplier shall deliver to the Clerk-Treasurer a
certification by it that the alarm system is installed and operating in
accordance with standard industry practices and in compliance with applicable
laws and ordinances.
   (b)   For commercial alarms which are directly linked to the signal board at
the Dyer Police Department, the alarm user shall submit with the renewal
application proof that the alarm has been tested by an alarm equipment supplier
in compliance with state statute, that the alarm system is installed and
operating under industry standards and in accordance with applicable laws and
ordinances.
   (c)   No permit, either initial or renewal, shall be issued by the Clerk-
Treasurer without the satisfactory compliance with the certification or testing
required herein.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 6, 2-12-85; Am. Ord. No. 2006-04, 4-19-06; Am. Ord. No. 2011-
01, 2-10-11)
Sec. 6-40 Inspection.
   (a)   The Chief of Police, or his or her delegate, shall have the right to
inspect any alarm system on the premises where it is intended to be used, both
prior to and subsequent to the issuance of a permit, at reasonable times, for
the purpose of determining whether a permit should be granted or renewed, and
to determine if said alarm system is being used in conformity with the terms of
the permit, industry standards, and in compliance with applicable laws and
ordinances.
   (b)   Each alarm user who is directly linked to the signal board at the Dyer
Police Department authorizes the Chief of Police or his or her delegate to have
the alarm system inspected at least once each year by an alarm equipment
supplier chosen by the Town for such purpose. Any costs incurred for said
inspection shall be the responsibility of the licensee, and shall in no way be
the responsibility of the Town of Dyer.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 7, 2-12-85; Am. Ord. No. 2006-04, 4-19-06)
Sec. 6-41 Local Alarms.
   (a)   Local alarms with any externally audible alert shall not make a sound
similar to that of Civil Defense Warning System. Local alarms shall not be
required to obtain a permit.
   (b)   Such local alarms in residential districts must automatically cut-off
at five (5) minutes or less of sounding.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 8, 2-12-85; Am. Ord. No. 2006-04, 4-19-06)
Sec. 6-42 Fines Applicable For False Alarms.
   (a)   Any alarm user who has false alarms in a calendar year shall be
subject to payment of a fine or fines for such false alarms. The false alarm
fine schedule shall be as follows:
      (1)   1st false alarm: no charge;
      (2)   2nd false alarm: no charge;
      (3)   3rd false alarm: no charge;
      (4)   4th false alarm: one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine;
      (5)   5th false alarm: two hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) fine;
      (6)   Every false alarm thereafter will result in a five hundred dollar
($500.00) fine.
   (b)   False alarms which result from malfunction of the telephone system
which connects the alarm to the central board shall not be charged as false
alarm violations. The Chief of Police has the discretion to determine if other
conditions were present which would justify he or she making a determination as
to whether an alarm would be classified as a false alarm or not.
   (c)   All fines shall be payable to the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town and
deposited to the General Fund.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 9, 2-12-85; Am. Ord. No. 2001-26, 10-16-01; Am. Ord. No.
2006-14, 9-20-06; Am. Ord. No. 2011-01, 2-10-11)
Sec. 6-43 Revocation of Permit.
   (a)   The Chief of Police may revoke any permit issued pursuant to the
provisions of this Article upon a finding of any one or more of the following
violations:
      (1)   False information in an application for issuance or renewal of an
alarm system.
      (2)   Failure to comply with any provision of this Ordinance, as amended
from time to time.
      (3)   Installation, maintenance or operation of an alarm system in
violation of this Ordinance or of any term or condition of the permit granting
authority.
      (4)   Failure to pay any fine charged hereunder.
      (5)   Failure to obey any order of the Police Chief to disconnect the
alarm system.
      (6)   Excessive false alarms which shall be defined as more than ten (10)
false alarms in a calendar year.
   (b)   Before exercising his or her power to revoke any permit issued
hereunder, the Chief of Police shall first give written notice to the alarm
user describing therein the violation or failure by the alarm user and advising
the alarm user that:
      (1)   He or she shall have a reasonable time, but not exceeding seven (7)
days, to cure the matter and effect compliance; or
      (2)   He or she shall provide to the Chief of Police such additional
information and data as the alarm user believes sufficient to deny or excuse
the claim of violation or failure.
   (c)   An alarm user may appeal an adverse action or decision made by the
Chief of Police by filing a written request within ten (10) days after the date
of said adverse action or decision. The appeal shall be heard by the Dyer
Police Commission at a date, time and place designated by it. The Police
Commission may hold a public hearing as determined by it in its sole
discretion. The Police Commission shall review the action of the Police Chief,
the record of the proceedings, and further information submitted in a hearing,
if granted, and thereafter shall either affirm, affirm with modifications, or
reverse the decision of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 10, 2-12-85; Am. Ord. No. 2006-04, 4-19-06; Am. Ord. No.
2011-01, 2-10-11)
Sec. 6-44 Disconnection and Recommendation.
   (a)   Whenever alarm conditions are received by the Police Department that
evidence a failure of the alarm equipment or the alarm user to comply with the
requirements of this Ordinance, the Chief of Police may order that the alarm
user disconnect such alarm system until it is made to comply with the
requirements of this Ordinance. If there are more than ten (10) false alarms in
any one calendar year from any alarm system, the Chief of Police may remove the
alarm system from the signal board.
   (b)   No action or disconnection shall take place unless the Chief of Police
first gives written notice of his or her intention to do so, and the date on
which the action will be taken provided, however, that in the event the Chief
of Police believes that action of disconnection is necessary for the public
health or safety, he or she may disconnect the alarm system and provide the
alarm user with prompt notification thereof.
   (c)   Reconnection. An alarm system user whose authorization has been
revoked is not precluded under this Section from applying for a new
authorization pursuant to Section
6-38, provided, however, that all fines due must be paid and the system
corrected from any deficiencies and the application is accompanied by a
certification by the alarm installer that the system is installed and operating
in accordance with standard industry practices and in compliance with
applicable laws and ordinances.
   (d)   Any person affected by the Police Chief's order to disconnect or by
the Police Chief's refusal to certify to the Clerk-Treasurer that the system
currently meets all requirements, shall have the right to request the Police
Commission of the Town of Dyer to review the decision or action by the Police
Chief within ten (10) days after any decision has been made by the Police
Chief. The Police Commission is given the authority to either affirm, modify,
or reverse any decision made by the Police Chief.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 11, 2-12-85; Am. Ord. No. 2011-01, 2-10-11)
Sec. 6-45 Hold Harmless.
   (a)   In the event that an alarm user or an alarm equipment supplier has
violated or failed to comply with any provision of this Ordinance, such alarm
user and such alarm equipment supplier shall hold the Town harmless from any
cost, expense, claim or the like incurred or paid by the Town arising out of or
occurring as a result of the installation and operation of an alarm system
within the Town including but not limited to reasonable attorney fees,
litigation expenses and court costs.
   (b)   The alarm user and the alarm equipment supplier, by applying for a
permit and by installing alarm systems within the Town of Dyer, waive any claim
or cause of action which either may have against the Town for acts or actions
taken by the Town of Dyer in good faith.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 12, 2-12-85; Am. Ord. No. 2006-04, 4-19-06)
Sec. 6-46 Separability.
If any section, clause, provision or portion of this Ordinance shall be held to
be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
provisions, or portion of this Article shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 13, 2-12-85)
Sec. 6-47 Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects,
refuses to comply with or who resists enforcement of any of the provisions of
this Article upon conviction shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) and not more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for
each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 85-4, § 14, 2-12-85; Am. Ord. No. 2001-26, 10-16-01; Am. Ord. No.
2011-01, 2-10-11)
Sec. 6-48 and Sec. 6-49 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 5. FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION. 8
 
Notes
8    I.C. §§22-11-5-11 and 22-11-18-1, et seq. promote safety from fire
  hazards.
Sec. 6-50 Installment Requirement of Smoke Detectors.
   (a)   In new construction. Commencing with the date of this Ordinance (March
9, 1993) all new construction in the Town of Dyer, must have functional smoke
detectors installed and all other fire alarms or fire preventative devices
required by any other laws, rules or regulations of the State of Indiana and
Town of Dyer. All smoke detectors must be connected into the building's
electrical system with a battery back-up system. All devices for smoke
detection must be installed in conformity with the manufacturer's requirements
or acceptable trade union requirements or as directed by the Town's electrical
inspector. These devices must be installed at intervals in rooms, corridors, or
other spaces within a building such that the entire building is secured,
protected, or covered. Ten-year (10) lithium battery carbon monoxide detectors
must be installed on each floor with fifteen (15) feet of sleeping quarters. No
occupancy permit may be issued until this Article is fully complied with
regardless when a building permit was issued.
   (b)   In existing buildings. Smoke detectors must be installed in all
existing commercial and residential buildings on or before January 1, 1991.
Smoke detectors installed in existing buildings may be battery operated. If a
battery-operated detector is installed, it must contain a tamper resistant
cover to protect the batteries. The batteries must be replaced and maintained
so that the detector is always operational. The owners and occupiers of the
real estate are responsible for maintaining the smoke detector in workable
condition. Smoke detectors installed in already constructed buildings or
structures must conform to the requirements of smoke detectors in new
construction, except they may be battery operated. Ten-year (10) lithium
battery carbon monoxide detectors must be installed on each floor with fifteen
(15) feet of sleeping quarters.
   (c)   Buildings required to have smoke detectors. This Article applies to
all hotels, motels, businesses, commercial buildings, apartments, residential
buildings, and condominiums located within the Town of Dyer.
   (d)   Inspections. Where conditions of safety warrant the electrical
inspector or the Fire Chief or their designee may enter into any building,
structure, office, apartment, condominium, residence, or any other place where
a smoke detector is required at any reasonable time to inspect the smoke
detector.
(Ord. 2024-17, § 1, 11-21-24)
Sec. 6-51 Adoption of Fire Prevention Codes.
   (a)   The following mechanical and fire safety rules of the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission as set out in 675 I.A.C. 18, 22, and
25, including any subsequent amendments, are incorporated by reference in this
Code:
      (1)   Indiana Mechanical Code;
      (2)   Indiana Fire Prevention Code;
      (3)   Indiana Fuel Gas Code;
      (4)   Indiana Building Code;
      Copies of the adopted mechanical and fire safety rules, codes, and
standards must remain on file in the office of the Fire Chief.
   (b)   The Town adopts the provisions of the National Fire Codes NFPA 13,
NFPA 13D, NFPA 20, and NFPA 72, and NFPA 101, published by the National Fire
Protection Association (current edition) to govern conditions hazardous to life
from fire or explosion. Not less than one (1) copy of this code must remain in
the office of the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 2024-17, § 1, 11-21-24)
Sec. 6-52 Inspection of Premises for Fire Hazards.
   (a)   The Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee must conduct fire
and life safety inspections in a building or structure that is intended to be
or is occupied or otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
      (1)   The public;
      (2)   Three or more tenants;
      (3)   One (1) or more persons while acting as the employees of another,
pursuant to I.C. 36-8-17-8. The Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee
must inspect Class 1 structures as often as necessary for ascertaining and
causing to be corrected any violation of the Indiana General Administrative
Rules, Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana Mechanical Code,
Indiana Fuel Gas Code, this Fire Prevention Article, or any other rule of the
Commission.
   (b)   Under I.C. 36-8-17-9, an order of enforcement of the Indiana General
Administrative Rules, Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana
Mechanical Code, Indiana Fuel Gas Code, this Fire Prevention Article, or any
other rule of the commission, which is within the jurisdiction of the Fire
Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee, may seek correction of any violation
or the elimination of any hazardous condition by the methods specified in this
code or by any other means provided by law. Failure of the Fire Department to
inspect or to issue a notice of violation or order in accordance with this
Article does not constitute approval of any violation or non-compliance. Any
notice of violation or order issued under this section must be conveyed in
writing to the owner, operator, occupant, or other person responsible for the
building or property. Conveyance of such an order may occur only by one of the
following methods: personal service by affixing a copy in a conspicuous place
at the entrance of said building or premises, by mailing a copy to such
responsible person by first-class mail to his or her most recent known address,
by fax, or electronic mail pursuant to I.C. 4-21.5-3.
   (c)   The Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee may stop an
operation or require the evacuation of any building or structure any part of
which is intended to be or is occupied or used by:
      (1)   The public;
      (2)   Three or more tenants; or
      (3)   One or more persons while acting as employees of another, or any
structure or portion thereof under the provisions of I.C. 36-8-17-9 upon
determining that conduct or conditions on the property:
         a.   Present a clear and immediate hazard of death or serious bodily
injury to any person other than a trespasser;
         b.   Is prohibited without a permit, registration, certification,
authorization, variance, exemption, or other license required by law; or
         c.   Will conceal a violation of the law.
   (d)   The Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee must state in the
notice a time in which the owner, occupant, or other person responsible for the
property must comply with its provisions.
   (e)   Certificate of occupancy inspection. Before any new construction,
remodeling, or change of occupancy of a Class 1 or 2 building, the Fire
Department may conduct a final inspection. Occupancy may not occur until the
Fire Department issues a certificate of occupancy countersigned by the Fire
Department Inspector. All fire protection systems must be successfully
inspected and tested before the certificate of occupancy issues.
   (f)   Occupant information. Each building owner, occupant, or tenant is
required to supply the Town of Dyer Fire Department with emergency contact
information. For new construction projects, the building owner, occupant, or
tenant must provide this information before the Certificate of Occupancy
issues. This emergency contact information is required whenever ownership
changes or a new tenant begins inhabiting any commercial building.
   (g)   Stop work order. Whenever the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their
designee, finds any new construction work in a Class 1 structure regulated by
the Indiana Fire Code, Indiana Building Code, Indiana Mechanical Code, Indiana
Fuel Gas Code, this Fire Prevention Code, or any other code of the jurisdiction
performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of those codes or in a
dangerous or unsafe manner, the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee,
may issue a stop work order. Failure to comply with a stop work order issued by
the Town of Dyer Fire Department results in a fine of two hundred and fifty
dollars ($250) per day.
   (h)   The Dyer Fire Department may enter any building or property without
permission or warrant in any emergency situation constituting a potential
threat to human life, property, or public safety to eliminate, control or abate
the dangerous condition or situation.
   (i)   Liability for damages. This Fire Prevention Code may not be construed
to hold any public entity, any officer, or employee responsible for any damages
to persons or property because of the inspection authorization provided here or
because of approval or disapproval of any equipment or process authorized here.
   (j)   Hindrance to inspections. No person may prevent, interfere with, or in
any manner hinder the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee, while
engaged in the discharge of his/her inspection duties.
   (k)   The Fire Department is responsible for enforcing laws and regulations
for safeguarding, to a reasonable degree, life and property from hazards of
fire and explosions and from conditions hazardous to life and property in the
use or occupancy of buildings or property and their contents.
   (l)   It is the intent of the Fire Department to achieve compliance by
traditional means of inspection, notification, granting of reasonable time to
comply, and re-inspection. The citation should be used only after reasonable
means to gain compliance have failed or with proper justification at the
discretion of the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee.
   (m)   This Article is intended to apply prospectively to any new commercial
construction within the Town of Dyer and those areas protected under contract.
All existing buildings at the time of this Article are requested to comply with
this Article voluntarily. Notwithstanding this provision, any existing building
which is remodeled or structurally altered, or alters the fire protection
systems in any way afterward or changes ownership or occupancy must comply with
the terms and provisions of this Article.
(Ord. 2024-17, § 1, 11-21-24)
Sec. 6-53 Rapid Access Key Boxes; Security Connections Caps and Gates.
   (a)   Where access to or within a structure or an area is restricted because
of secured openings or where immediate access is necessary for life-saving or
fire-fighting purposes, the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee may
require installation of a key box in an approved location. The key box must be
(1) of an approved type listed in accordance with UL 1037 (2) manufactured by
the Knox Company and keyed to the Dyer Fire Department Knox Key and (3) contain
keys to gain necessary access as required by the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or
their designee. The Knox box must be mounted five (5) feet six (6) inches
(1,676 mm) above the finished grade on the exterior of the building in a
location determined by the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee.
   (b)   Locks. An approved lock, Knox Key Switch, Knox Padlock or other
approved devices must be installed on gates or similar barriers where required
by the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee.
   (c)   Key boxes for nonstandardized fire service elevator keys. Key boxes
provided for non-standardized fire service elevator keys must:
      (1)   Be compatible with an existing rapid entry key box system in use in
the jurisdiction and approved by the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their
designee.
      (2)   Have a front cover permanently labeled with the words "Fire
Department Use Only-Elevator Keys."
      (3)   Be mounted at each elevator bank at the lobby nearest to the lowest
level of Fire Department access.   
      (4)   Be mounted five (5) feet six (6) inches (1,676 mm) above the
finished floor to the right side of the elevator bank.
      (5)   The key box may contain only fire service elevator keys. Additional
elevator access tools, keys and information pertinent to emergency planning or
elevator access are permitted where authorized by the Fire Chief, Fire
Inspector, or their designee.
      (6)   In buildings with two (2) or more elevator banks, a single key box
may be used where the elevator banks are separated by not more than thirty (30)
feet (9,144 mm). Additional key boxes must be provided for each individual
elevator or elevator bank separated by more than thirty (30) feet (9,144 mm).
   (d)   Key box maintenance. The owner or property manager of the building
must immediately notify the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee and
provide the new key where a lock is changed or rekeyed. The key to such a lock
must be secured in the key box.
   (e)   Apartment buildings and condominiums. Key boxes for apartment
buildings, and condominiums need not contain keys to individual apartment
dwelling units, but are highly encouraged to contain them. A key for the
apartment's common area must be provided.
   (f)   Security caps. When a building is protected by an automatic sprinkler
system or standpipe system and the Fire Department connection is exposed to
undue vandalism, the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee may require
installation of a Fire Department connection security cap. The Fire Department
connection security cap must be of a type approved by the Fire Chief, Fire
Inspector, or their designee.
(Ord. 2024-17, § 1, 11-21-24)
Sec. 6-54 Violations, Penalties.
   (a)   Any person who violates any provision of this Article or any order
made under them, or who builds in violation of any specifications or plans
approved under them or any certificate or permit issued under them, must:
      (1)   Unless otherwise expressly provided, pay a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars ($100) for the first violation and not more than three
hundred dollars ($300) for each subsequent offense. Each day the violation
occurs constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Have their business certificate revoked and the business closed
until the violations are corrected, with reinstatement at the discretion of the
Town Council; or
      (3)   Both subsections (1) and (2) of this section.
      (4)   The Town of Dyer Fire Chiefs office may review and alter any fine
issued.
   (b)   The penalties in this section also apply to the other provisions of
this Article, except as otherwise provided specifically in those provisions.
   (c)   Violations occurring during inspections are determined from one of
three violations.
   (d)   Immediate danger to life safety, major violation, and minor violation.
      (1)   Minor violations are classified as violations that do not pose a
serious hazard to life or safety.
      (2)   Major violations are classified as serious violations.
      (3)   Immediate danger to life safety violations are violations that need
to be addressed immediately before operations can continue.
      (4)   For minor and major violations: For each re-inspection, after a
third violation notice is issued, a violator must pay a re-inspection fee of
one hundred dollars ($100) and a two hundred and fifty dollars ($250) fee per
violation for each subsequent inspection until all violations are remedied.
      (5)   For immediate danger to life safety violations: A violator must pay
a two hundred and fifty dollar ($250) fine upon the initial notice of
violation, must immediately suspend all operations until violations are
remedied, and must then pay a one hundred dollar ($100) re-inspection fee for
each subsequent inspection until all violations are remedied. Such a violation
also results in an IDHS notification.
   (e)   The first violation must be issued at the time of the inspection. As
feasibly close as possible to days after issuance of the first notice, a second
inspection must occur. In the event the violation is not corrected at that
time, a second violation notice must be issued, and a third inspection is
necessary. The third inspection must occur as feasibly close as possible to
fifteen (15) days after issuance of the second violation notice. If the
violation is not corrected for the third inspection, a third violation notice
must be issued. Subsequent inspections must occur approximately every five (5)
days afterwards until the violation is corrected. If the recipient of the
notice does not take the necessary action to correct the dangerous condition or
code violation as set out in the notice, the recipient is in violation of this
section and receives a citation. If a violation is not corrected due to
extenuating circumstances, the Fire Chief may grant an extension.
   (f)   Faulty/false alarms. Whenever the Fire Department responds to an
automatic fire alarm at a property or building more than three times in a
calendar year due to improper alarm installation, lack of maintenance,
servicing, improper construction or maintenance work, or failure to notify the
Fire Department of a drill or test, a fine as approved by the Town Council is
imposed.
   (g)   Fire watch order. Any property owner or tenant that does not comply
with a fire watch order issued by the Town of Dyer Fire Department must pay a
fine of five hundred dollars ($500) per day and is subject to IDHS
notification.
   (h)   All payments are due within thirty (30) days from the date of the
assessment of the fee or fine. Violators who fail to make timely payment are
assessed an additional twenty-five dollare ($25) late fee for each outstanding
fee.
(Ord. 2024-17, § 1, 11-21-24)
Sec. 6-55 Fire Protection Systems and Equipment.
   (a)   Commercial kitchen exhaust and fixed fire suppression systems.
      (1)   Any new installation of a fixed-fire suppression system installed
under a Type I exhaust hood must be inspected by the Fire Chief, Fire
Inspector, or their designee, before the cooking equipment is placed into
service. The installer of the fixed-fire suppression system must:
         a.   Adhere to all manufacturer's recommendations for the
installation;
         b.   Notify the Dyer Fire Department Fire Inspector at forty-eight
(48) hours in advance of the system being completed for system testing; and
         c.   Provide written documentation to the Dyer Fire Department stating
that the system has been installed per the manufacturer's specifications and
successfully tested by the installer.
      (2)   In an existing commercial kitchen hood and exhaust system, the
property owner or tenant must contact the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their
designee, before modifying any portion of the kitchen hood system (e.g ...,
cutting access panels into existing exhaust ductwork). The Fire Chief, the Fire
Inspector, or their designee, must inspect all work performed on existing
systems
   (b)   Fire alarms systems.
      (1)   The location of the fire alarm devices must match the design
professional's approved plans. All deviations without revised plans must be
approved by the Fire Chief, Fire Inspector, or their designee, and filed with
State Plan Review.
      (2)   All required fire alarm systems must be monitored by an approved
supervising station in accordance with NFPA 72.
      (3)   Fire alarm initiating devices, alarm signaling devices,
annunciators, or control panels may not be concealed, obstructed, or impaired.
      (4)   All fire alarm systems required to be installed per the Indiana
Building Code must be equipped with addressable fire alarm components that can
have their respective status individually identified or are used to
individually control other functions.
      (5)   Access panels must be provided to facilitate the testing,
inspection, and cleaning of HVAC duct detectors.
      (6)   A posted diagram of all HVAC duct detectors must be provided at the
main electrical panel or a location approved by the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal,
or their designee.
      (7)   HVAC duct detectors that are not accessible from the finished floor
must have remote test buttons in a location approved by the Fire Chief, Fire
Inspector, or their designee, which may not be higher than five (5) feet above
the finished floor near the duct detector that the switch services.
      (8)   A copy of the as-built fire alarm panel for all required fire alarm
installations must be maintained on site in an approved location near the fire
alarm control panel.
      (9)   In all newly constructed Class 1 structures, a listed fire alarm
notification device is required in all walk-in freezers and coolers that exceed
one hundred (100) square feet.
   (c)   Sprinkler systems.
      (1)   If a sprinkler system has multiple zones, an approved zone diagram
or map must be mounted adjacent to the sprinkler riser.
      (2)   A copy of the as-built sprinkler plans and hydraulic calculations
for every sprinkler system must be maintained on site in an approved location.
      (3)   Instructions for the assignment of an impairment coordinator must
be posted adjacent to the sprinkler riser(s). An impairment coordinator must be
assigned as required by the Indiana Fire Code.
   (d)   Emergency communications. Any time a commercial building is being
built or remodeled in the Town of Dyer; the owner of the building must contact
the Fire Chief for information on emergency communications equipment required
to be installed in the building, consisting of a radio repeater system,
bidirectional amplifier, or wi-fi extender with SSID, that appropriately
supports mobile radios, is used to assist police and fire agencies inside the
building, and allows the Lake Emergency Communications radio system to function
properly inside their building.
(Ord. 2024-17, § 1, 11-21-24)
Sec. 6-56 Certificate of Occupancy Requirements.
   (a)   Acceptance test. Before issuance of the certificate of occupancy for a
newly constructed, renovated, or remodeled Class 1 structure, the Dyer Fire
Department must witness a successful acceptance or performance test in
accordance with the appropriate installation standard or manufacturer's
specifications for the following systems:
      (1)   Fire alarm system;
      (2)   Sprinkler and standpipe system;
      (3)   Special hazard fire suppression system;
      (4)   Private fire service underground piping hydrostatic test and flush;
      (5)   Fire pump;
      (6)   Smoke control system;
      (7)   Above-ground piping hydrostatic test;
      (8)   Emergency lighting system;
      (9)   Underground storage tank tightness test; and
      (10)   Grease duct leakage test (Type I hood exhaust system).
   (b)   Monitoring. Fire alarm, supervisory, and trouble signals must
automatically transmit the appropriate response by Dyer Fire Department through
Lake County Emergency Communications Center.
(Ord. 2024-17, § 1, 11-21-24)
Sec. 6-57 Contractor Inspection Portal.
   (a)   The Dyer Fire Department requires that specific fire protection system
annual test reports be submitted to the department from the inspection,
testing, and maintenance via LIV Life Safety Inspection Vault. These efforts
help ensure those fire protection systems comply with the Indiana Fire Code,
which has been adopted by the Town of Dyer. Compliant fire protection systems
reduce the risk to life and property in the Town of Dyer.
      (1)   Fire protection systems included within the directive include:
         a.   Automatic fire sprinkler system;
         b.   Fire alarm system;
         c.   Commercial kitchen hood suppression system (cleaning and
testing);
         d.   Standpipe;
         e.   Active smoke control system;
         f.   Fire pump;
         g.   Spray booth w/ suppression system;
         h.   Emergency generator;
         i.   Private fire hydrants;
         j.   Special suppression system;
         k.   Gas detection system;
         l.   Automatic closing fire assemblies.
   (b)   All compliant and non-compliant fire protection systems test reports
are required to be sent to the Dyer Fire Department electronically by the
respective organization.
   (c)   Life safety and fire protection reports.
      (1)   Reporting. Any person or entity providing or conducting tests or
inspections of the fire protection systems within the city must submit a copy
of the results of all tests or inspections within 30 days to the fire code
official's approved and designated online reporting vendor.
      (2)   Web-based reporting requirement. The Dyer Fire Department
Inspections office must use a web-based inspection reporting program that
connects and engages the key stakeholders involved in fire prevention and
community risk reduction: authorities having jurisdiction (AHJ), service
providers (SP), and property owners (PO). Third party inspection reports must
be uploaded to a web-based inspection reporting system designated by the AHJ.
The web-based inspection reporting provider shall transmit said inspection
reports to the AHJ.
      (3)   Itemized records. Itemized records for inspections, testing,
maintenance, repair, or replacement of any life safety or fire protection
systems, including fire sprinkler systems, standpipe systems, fire pumps, BDA
systems, fire alarms, smoke detection, monitoring systems, fire extinguishing
hood systems, fire extinguishers, fire escape systems, private hydrants,
private water main systems, backflow preventers and other extinguishing systems
shall document the individual and company performing the inspection, testing,
maintenance, repair, or replacement, a description of the inspection, testing,
maintenance, repair, or replacement, when and where the inspection, testing,
maintenance, repair, or replacement took place and the results of the
inspection, testing, maintenance, repair or replacement. All itemized records
of inspection, testing, maintenance, repair, or replacement shall be submitted
to the approved the Dyer Fire Department online reporting vendor.
   (d)   Technicians. All fire protection systems must be performed by
certified technicians licensed to perform work in Dyer.
   (e)   Rejection of reports. The Fire Code Official may reject and reports
provided pursuant to subsection (a) of this section unless the person or firm
providing the reports also has provided the Fire Code Official with
documentation of current certification and qualifications to conduct such test
or inspections in accordance with the appropriate National Fire Protections
Association Standard.
   (f)   Failure to report. If the fire protection contractor, entity, company
or individual performing the service fails to submit a detailed report upon
completion of an inspection, maintenance or repair performed on any and all
life safety protections appliances and systems including but not limited to
fire sprinkler systems, standpipe
systems, fire pumps, BDA systems, fire alarms, smoke detection, monitoring
systems, fire extinguishing hood systems, private fire hydrants, private water
main systems, backflow preventers, fire extinguishers, fire escape systems,
other extinguishing systems, and fire hose as required they are in violation
and the penalty is one hundred dollars ($100). Notice of violation shall be
left with the contractor, entity, company, individual or other agent in charge.
If the violator fails to appear in response to a notice issued after thirty
(30) calendar days from the date and time shown the penalty is one hundred and
fifty dollars ($150).
   (g)   Fees, failure to submit life safety and fire protection reports. One
hundred dollars ($100) notice of violation must be delivered to the contractor
within 30 days of __ ; this amount increases to one hundred anf fifty dollars
($150) if after thirty (30) days, the violator fails to comply to notice.
(Ord. 2024-17, § 1, 11-21-24)
ARTICLE 6. PUBLIC NUISANCES.
Division I. Overall Guidelines.
Sec. 6-58 Definitions.
   For the purpose of this Article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Native Species. A plant or animal that originally occurred in an area
(USEPA).
   For the purpose of this Article, the word “nuisance” is defined as the doing
of an unlawful act, or the omitting to perform a duty, or the suffering or
permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act, omission,
condition or thing either:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others; or
      (2)   Offends decency; or
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses; or
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch or drainage; or
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others; or
      (7)   Violates the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Dyer, Indiana.
   Rank Vegetation. Uncontrolled growth of weeds and grasses - six (6) inch
height limitation on developed lot, ten (10) inch on undeveloped lot.
   Turf Grass. Grass commonly used in regularly cut lawns or play areas, such
as, but not limited to, bluegrass, fescue, and ryegrass blends.
   Weeds. Any uncultivated plant other than native species occurring naturally
which has a tendency to dominate or drive out grasses and desirable plants.
(Ord. No. 92-9, § 1, 3-10-92; Ord. No. 2012-01, § 1, 2-9-12)
Sec. 6-59 Illustrative Enumeration - Weeds, Rubbish, Noise, Odors, Junk
Vehicles, Etc.
The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of the following items, conditions or
actions are declared to be and constitute a nuisance; provided, however, this
enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive, limiting or
restrictive;
   (a)   Turf, grass, weeds and other rank vegetation living or dead, the
height of which exceed six (6) inches above ground level on a developed lot and
ten (10) inches above ground level on an undeveloped lot. The failure of any
property owner to cut turf grass, weeds, or other rank vegetation, living or
dead, on his or her property shall be evidence that the property owner is
maintaining a nuisance.
      (1)   The growing of taller grasses/plants constituting the “rough” area
of a golf course shall be exempt from the height regulation stated above so
long as the grasses/plants in such “rough” areas shall be native species.
      (2)   Buffer areas along creeks, streams, ponds and lakes shall be exempt
from the height regulations stated above as such areas are used to filter storm
water runoff before it enters creeks, streams, ponds and lakes. Such buffer
areas shall be limited to a maximum of twenty-five feet (24') in width.
      (3)   Taking into consideration topography and existing forestry areas
tracts of undeveloped land are also exempt from the height regulations above
under the following conditions. For such undeveloped parcels of less than one
(1) acre, a strip of land at least 10 feet (10') in width is subject to the
regulations in paragraph (a) above where they border residential and/or
commercial properties. For parcels larger than one (1) acre that border
occupied residential and/or commercial properties, a strip of land at least
twenty-five feet (25') in width is subject to the regulations in paragraph (a)
above.
      (4)   Swales and drainage ways leading to any body of water or area
designed to hold water and storm sewer inlets are also exempt from the height
regulations stated in paragraph (a) above so long as the swale or drainage way
is functioning properly.
      (5)   Areas classified as state and/or federally protected wetlands are
exempt from these regulations.
   (b)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber or other things.
   (c)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes and
other vermin.
   (d)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located.
   (e)   Any of the following noises and/or noise conditions, namely:
      (1)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments, live bands or disc
jockeys, compact disc, tape or record players, amplifiers and similar devices:
Operating any such device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Monday
through Thursday, and 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m Friday, Saturday and Sunday as to
be plainly audible across property boundaries or through partitions common to
two (2) separate dwelling units shall be unlawful.
      (2)   Domestic power tools: Operating any mechanically powered saw,
drill, sander, grinder or other tool, lawn or garden tool, lawn mower, or
similar device used outdoors or indoors between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m, as to be plainly audible across property boundaries or through
partitions common to two (2) separate dwelling units shall be unlawful.
      (3)   Commercial construction: Operating any tool or equipment used in
construction, drilling or demolition between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:00
am. as to be plainly audible across property boundaries or through partitions
common to two (2) separate dwelling units shall be unlawful. Further, no
commercial construction noise shall be permitted on Sundays or holidays.
      (4)   Horns and signaling devices: Operating a horn or other audible
signaling device on any motor vehicle except in an emergency or when required
by law shall be unlawful.
      (5)   Residential noisy parties or gatherings: Hosting any party or
gathering between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Monday through Thursday
and 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a..m. Friday, Saturday and Sunday giving rise to noise
that is plainly audible across property boundaries or between partitions common
to two (2) separate dwelling units shall be unlawful.
      (6)   Motor vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
light motor vehicle which causes excessive noise as a result of a defective or
modified exhaust system or as a result of an unnecessary rapid acceleration,
deceleration, engine revving or tire squealing. It shall be unlawful to operate
audio equipment within a vehicle which is plainly audible within twenty five
(25) feet of the audio device.
      (7)   Stationary source: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause the
sound pressure level to exceed the limits listed below at any point on the
boundary of the property where the person is located.
         a.   If a person is located within a residential zone: fifty-five (55)
DBA at all times.
         b.   If the person is located within a commercial zone: sixty (60) DBA
at all times.
         c.   If the person is located within an industrial zone: sixty-five
(65) DBA at all times.
         d.   If the property boundary lies between two (2) zones, the lower
limits shall apply regardless of the zone in which the person creating the
noise is located.
      (8)   Emergency work exempted: Noise caused in the performance of
emergency work for the immediate safety, health, or welfare of the community or
individuals of the community or to restore property to a safe condition shall
not be subject to the conditions of this Section.
      (9)   Definitions:
         a.   Stationary source: A fixed, non-mobile source.
         b.   Plainly audible: Any sound that can be detected by a person using
his/her unaided hearing faculties.
         c.   Decibel (DB): A unit for describing the amplitude of sound as
measured on a sound level meter.
         d.   Decibel meter:  A device used to measure the intensity of sound.
   (f)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches.
   (g)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death.
   (h)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery industrial wastes or other
substances.
   (i)   Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained.
   (i)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground.
   (k)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities.
   (l)   The obstruction of any public street, road or sidewalk.
   (m) The obstruction of any dedicated easement.
   (n)   The alteration of the flow of storm water to the detriment of
surrounding property.
   (o)   The public exhibition of lewd films and the sale of obscene
publications.
   (p)   Any junk vehicle. For the purposes of this Article a “junk vehicle”
shall be defined as a motor vehicle, or a part or parts from a motor vehicle,
which meets any one of the following qualifications:
      (1)   It does not carry the current state registration (license plates);
      (2)   It cannot be safely operated under its own power;
      (3)   It is not carried on the most recent tax records of the county
assessor's office.
      (4)   It is not the property of and is not located in a licensed
junkyard.
   (q)   The discharge of any liquid onto the property of other person
including but not limited to the discharge of any water as the result of the
draining of a swimming pool or the operation of a sump pump. (Ord. No. 92-9, §
2, 3-10-92; Ord. No. 2000-22, § 1, 11-21-00; Ord. No. 2003-11, 5-20-03; Ord.
No. 2012-01, § 1, 2-9-12; Ord. No. 2013-01, § 1, 3-14-13)
Sec. 6-60 Enforcement and Penalties.
Whenever a nuisance other than the public exhibition of lewd films and the sale
of obscene publications if found to exist within the Town, the Town through any
Town officer or employee designated by the Town Council may proceed to enforce
compliance with this Article.
   (a)   By giving written notice to all persons holding a substantial interest
in the property upon which such nuisance exists or upon the person causing or
maintaining the nuisance, which notice shall be served as authorized by Indiana
law and which notice shall contain the following:
      (1)   An order to abate the nuisance within a time certain which time
shall be reasonable under the circumstances.
      (2)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary.
      (3)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance.
      (4)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance.
      (5)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed, the
Town may abate such nuisance and assess the cost thereof against such person.
      (6)   A statement that the finding of a violation and/or the billing of
any amounts by the Town to the property owner can be appealed by filing a
notice of appeal from administrative action within ten (10) days of the date of
the finding or the receipt of the bill. The notice shall be filed at the Town
Clerk-Treasurer’s Office on forms available at the Dyer Town Hall. All appeals
from administrative action shall be heard by the Town Board of Zoning Appeals.
Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance was served
pursuant to the provisions of this article to abate the same, a duly designated
officer or employee of the Town may proceed to take any and all action
necessary including, but not limited to, entry onto any property where the
nuisance exists to abate such nuisance and shall prepare a statement of costs
incurred in the abatement thereof.
Any and all costs incurred by the Town in the abatement of a nuisance under the
provisions of this article shall constitute a lien against the property upon
which such nuisance existed and shall be certified by the Clerk- Treasurer to
the County Auditor, who shall cause such costs to be placed upon the tax
duplicate of the owner of such property and such costs shall then be collected
from the owner as other taxes are collected. In addition, such costs shall be a
debt which may be collected by the Town in an appropriate civil action; and
   (b)   By bringing an action in the name of the Town of Dyer before a Court
of competent jurisdiction to:
      (1)   Enforce a civil Penalty for violation of this Article, which
penalty shall be in a sum not to exceed $2,500.00; and/or
      (2)   Enjoin the violation of this Article or issue a $50.00 Ordinance
Violation for first offenses in a calendar year payable through the Ordinance
Violation Bureau. (Ord. No. 89-38, 10-10-89; Am. Ord. No. 2003- 01, 1-21-03)
Each day that any person shall violate any of the provisions or Sections of
this Article shall be deemed to commit a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 92-9, § 3, 3-10-92)
Sec. 6-61 and Sec. 6-62 Reserved for Future Use.
Division II. Lewd Films and the Sale of Obscene Publications.
Sec. 6-63 Policy.
The Town Council finds that the crass commercial exploitation of explicit
sexual conduct through the public exhibition of lewd films, and the sale of
obscene publications, constitutes a debasement and distortion of a sensitive
key relationship of human existence, central to a family life, community
welfare and the development of human personality; that such exploitation is
indecent and offensive to the senses and to public morals and interferes with
the interest of the public in the quality of life and total community
environment, the tone of commerce in the Town, property values, and the public
safety; and that the continuation of such activities is detrimental to the best
health, safety, convenience, good morals and general welfare of the Town, and
of the residents, citizens, inhabitants and businesses thereof. The Town
Council declares such activities to be public nuisances, and herein established
procedures for abatement thereof. This Division shall apply to existing
establishments which are presently engaged in the activities herein declared to
be public nuisances, as well as those which may be commenced in the future.
(Ord. No. 92-9, § 4 [A], 3-10-92)
Sec. 6-64 Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning;
   (1)   “Knowledge” or “knowledge of” such nuisance means having knowledge of
the contents and character of the patently offensive sexual conduct which
appears in the lewd matter.
   (2)   “Lewd matter” means any matter which;
      a.   the average person, applying contemporary community standards,
finds, when considered as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest; and
      b.   depicts or describes patently offensive representations simulated;
or
         1.   ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or
         2.   masturbation, excretory functions, or exhibition of the genitals
or genital area.
Nothing herein contained is intended to include or proscribe any matter which,
when considered as a whole, and in the context of which it is used, possesses
serious literary, artistic, political scientific value
   (3)   “Matter” shall mean a motion picture film or a publication, or both.
   (4)   “Motion picture film”: shall include any:
      a.   film or plate negative; or
      b.   film or plate positive; or
      c.   film designed to be projected on a screen for exhibition;
      d.   films, glass slides, or transparencies, either in negative or
positive form, designed for exhibition by projection on a screen; or
      e.   video tape or any other medium used to electronically reproduce
images on a screen,
   (5)   “Place” includes, but is not limited to, any building, structure or
place, or any separate part or portion thereof whether permanent or not, or the
ground itself.
   (6)   “Publication” shall include any books, magazine, article, pamphlet,
writing, painting, illustration, picture, sound recording, or a motion picture
film which is offered for sale or exhibit in a coin-operated machine.
   (7)   “Sale” means a passing of title or right of possession from a seller
to a buyer for valuable consideration and shall include, but is not limited to,
any lease or rental arrangement or other transaction wherein, and whereby any
valuable consideration is received for the use of, or transfer of possession,
lewd matter. (Ord. No. 92-9, § 4 [B], 3-10-92)
Sec. 6-65 Lewd Films and Theaters.
   (a)   Any and every place in the Town where:
      (1)   lewd films are publicly exhibited as a regular course of business,
or possessed for the purpose of such exhibition; or
      (2)   a lewd film is publicly and repeatedly exhibited, or possessed for
the purpose of such exhibition; is a public nuisance.
   (b)   Any and every lewd film which is publicly exhibited or possessed for
such purpose at a place which is a public nuisance is a public nuisance per se.
(Ord. No. 92-9, § 4 [C], 3-10-92)
Sec. 6-66 Stock in Trade.
Any and every place of business in the Town in which lewd publications
constitute all or a principal part of the stock in trade is a public nuisance.
(Ord. No. 92-9, § 4 [D], 3-10-92)
Sec. 6-67 Possession.
Any and every lewd publication possessed at a place which is a public nuisance
under Section
6-63 is a public nuisance per se. (Ord. No. 92-9, § 4 [E], 3-10-92)
Sec. 6-68 Enforcement and Penalties.
   (a)   Upon investigation by any Town officer or employee designated by the
Town Council or upon receipt of information from any other person as to
possible violations of this Division, the Town Council shall refer the matter
to the Town Attorney, who shall investigate and report back to the Council as
to whether it is his opinion that a violation of this article has occurred.
Upon receipt of this report, the Town Council shall make any independent
investigation it deems necessary and appropriate.
   (b)   Upon determination that a public nuisance, as defined herein, exists
in the Town, the Town Council, in applying the provisions of this ordinance to
such nuisance, shall provide for the following by resolution:
      (1)   Declare the fact that such a nuisance exists.
      (2)   Set forth the description or legal description of the street
address of the place which constitutes the nuisance.
      (3)   Set forth a statement of facts upon which the Town Council
declaration of nuisance is based.
      (4)   Order all persons described in Section
6-68 of this Code to voluntarily abate such nuisance immediately, by
terminating the exhibition, sale or possession for sale of such lewd subject
matter or by terminating the use of said premises for lewdness. A certified
copy of said ordinance shall be served upon the person or persons who own,
legally or equitable, lease, maintain, conduct and/or operate what has been
determined by the Town Council to be a nuisance. Should the person or persons
who own, legally or equitable, lease, maintain, conduct and/or operate what has
been determined by the Town Council to be a nuisance fail to immediately abate
such nuisance voluntarily, the Town attorney shall forthwith commence a civil
action seeking the following relief:
         a.   A declaratory judgment that the matter found to be lewd is or are
public nuisances per se under this article and such ordinance.
         b.   A declaratory judgment that the matter named by the Town Council
is lewd as defined herein.
         c.   A declaratory judgment that each place named by the Town Council
is a public nuisance under this article and such ordinance.
         d.   An accounting of all monies paid as admission price to or for the
exhibition or exhibitions of such lewd motion picture films, and valuable
consideration received for the sale of lewd publications from and after the
time the persons maintaining said nuisance received a copy of the ordinance of
the Town Council that the public nuisance exists, and a judgment that such
monies or valuable consideration are a public nuisance under this article.
         e.   An order that all admission price monies or valuable
consideration received and enumerated in the Court ordered accounting be
forfeited as contraband to the general fund of the Town or as property
belonging to the Town.
         f.   An injunction enjoining and restraining all persons responsible
for maintaining said nuisance from possessing or publicly exhibiting said lewd
motion picture films, or from selling and for sale said lewd publications at
any time in the future in the Town, and such other injunctive relief as the
Court may order.
         g.   An order that all positive prints of the named lewd film and all
lewd publications or copies or reproductions thereof be forfeited as contraband
under this article.
         h.   Judgment for the Town for all costs therein expended, including
investigative costs, Court costs, reasonable attorney's fees, and such other
expenses as are provided for herein.
         i.   All other relief as the Court may deem proper including, but not
limited to, a fine in the sum not to exceed $2,500.00 for each day that any
person shall violate any of the provisions of this Division shall be deemed to
commit a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 92-9, § 5 [F], 3-10-92)
Sec. 6-69 Knowledge Presumed.
Upon and after receiving notice through service of a certified copy of said
ordinance provided for in Section above, any and every person who shall own,
legally or equitably, lease, maintain, manage, conduct or operate a place in
the Town which is declared to be a public nuisance as set forth and stated in
this Code is deemed to be a person who has knowledge of such nuisance for the
purpose of this Division and is, thereafter, responsible for its maintenance
and shall be liable thereafter.
Sec. 6-70 Judgment and Forfeiture.
   (a)   Upon judgment for the Town in a legal proceeding brought pursuant to
this Division, an accounting shall be made by such defendant or defendants of
all monies or valuable consideration their equivalent and any other valuable
consideration received shall be forfeited to the general fund of the Town or to
the Town as property of the Town if any valuable consideration received be not
money. The cost of abatement shall include the following:
      (1)   Investigative costs
      (2)   Court costs
      (3)   Reasonable attorney's fees arising out of the preparation for, and
trial of the cause, and appeals therefrom, and other costs allowed on appeal.
   (b)   Upon obtaining judgment in a civil action pursuant to this Division
the costs of abatement shall, by special ordinance, be made a lien against such
property and a personal obligation against the theater operator and property
owner and shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
ordinary municipal taxes are collected, and shall be subject to the same
penalties and the same procedure and sale in the case of delinquency as
provided for ordinary municipal taxes. All laws, applicable to the levy,
collection and enforcement of municipal taxes, shall be applicable to such
special assessment.
(Ord. No. 92-9, § 4 [H], 3-10-92)
Sec. 6-71 Severability.
If any Court shall determine that any word, clause, phrase, sentence,
paragraph, or subsection of this Article is unconstitutional as worded, the
Court shall first attempt to construe or interpret such unconstitutional
provision so as to enable the same to be constitutional as so narrowed or
construed. If the Court cannot so limit or construe such work or provision
narrowly so as to render the same constitutional, it shall strike or modify
only the minimum number of words, phrases, clauses, sentences or paragraphs as
will be absolutely necessary to render the remainder constitutional. In no case
shall a subordinate clause or phrase or words render the attached major section
or provision unconstitutional, but instead shall be severed therefrom entirely,
unless such severance renders the remainder wholly meaningless or
unconstitutional.
(Ord. No. 92-9, § 5, 3-10-92)
Sec. 6-72 through Sec. 6-74 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 7. HUMANE CONTROL AND REGULATION OF ANIMALS.
Sec. 6-75 Definitions.
As used in this Article the following terms mean:
   Abandon: The act of leaving a companion animal, domestic animal, or exotic
animal:
      (1)   Without food, water or care for 24 hours or more; or
      (2)   In a situation where conditions present an immediate, direct and
serious threat to the life, safety, or health of the animal
   Animal: Every nonhuman species of animal, both domestic and wild.
   Animal Facility: Any facility operated by a humane society, or municipal
agency or its authorized agents, for the purpose of temporarily impounding
animals under the authority of this Article or state law for care, confinement,
return to owner, adoption, or euthanasia.
   Auction: Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold, or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this Article. This
section does not apply to individual sale of animals by owners.
   Breeder. Any individual and/or entity who allows or causes to mate an animal
strain that reproduces the characteristics by which it is recognized.
   Circus: A commercial variety show featuring animal acts for public
entertainment.
   Commercial Animal Establishment: Any pet shop, grooming shop, guard dog
auction, riding school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal
exhibition, or boarding or breeding kennel.
   Companion Animal. Dogs and cats.
   Domestic Animal: Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility; an animal
of a species that has been bred and raised to live in or about the habitation
of humans and is dependent on people for food and shelter, including, but not
limited to, dogs, cats, horses, dairy and beef cattle, swine, goats, sheep and
fowl.
   Exotic Animal: Any animal not considered “domesticated,” that normally would
be found in a wild state.
   Grooming Shop: A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped,
plucked, or otherwise groomed.
   Guard Dog: Any dog that will detect and warn its handler that an intruder is
present in or near an area that is being secured.
   Humane Officer or Animal Control Officer: Any person designated by the State
of Indiana, county of jurisdiction or a federally licensed humane society as a
law enforcement officer who is qualified to perform such duties under the laws
of this state.
   Kennel or Cattery: Any premises wherein any person engages in the business
of boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, or selling
of dogs or cats. Six or more dogs and/or cats owned, harbored, possessed, cared
for or kept in custody of any person shall be constructed as and shall
constitute a kennel under this Article.
   Owner: Any person, partnership, or corporation owning, keeping, or harboring
one or more animals. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or
sheltered for three consecutive days or more.
   Performing Animal Exhibition: Any spectacle, display, act, or event other
than circuses, in which performing animals are used.
   Pet Shop: Any person, partnership, or corporation, whether operated
separately or in connection with another business enterprise (except for a
licensed kennel), that buys, sells, or boards any species of animal.
   Public Nuisance Animal: Any animal or animals that unreasonably annoy
humans, endanger the life or health of other animals or persons, or
substantially interfere with the rights of citizens, other than their owners,
to their enjoyment of life or property. The term “public nuisance animal” shall
mean and include, but is not limited to, any animal that:
      (1)   Is repeatedly found at large;
      (2)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
      (3)   Molests or intimidates pedestrians or passersby;
      (4)   Chases vehicles;
      (5)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing
unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others in
close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (6)   Causes fouling of the air by odor thereby creating an unreasonable
annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the
premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (7)   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where
the animal is kept or harbored;
      (8)   Is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare
by virtue of the number and/or types of animals maintained;
      (9)   Attacks other domestic animals or pursues them in a threatening
manner; or
      (10)   Has been found by the Bi-Town Animal Control Board, after notice
to its owner and a hearing, to be a public nuisance animal by virtue of being a
menace to the public health, welfare, and/or safety.
   Restraint: Any animal secured by a leash, fence or lead under the control of
a responsible person and obedient to that person’s commands, or contained
within the real property limits of its owner.
   Riding School or Stable: Any place that has available for hire, boarding,
and/or riding instruction, any horse, pony, donkey, mule, or burro; or any
place that regularly buys, sells, or trains the aforementioned animals,
including, but not limited to, a racetrack, trotting track, or rodeo.
   Running at Large: It shall be unlawful for any person having charge, care,
ownership or control of any animal to let the animal run at large and beyond
the limits of his or her lot or other real property. All animals which are
found unlawfully running at large within the Town may be taken into custody and
impounded at the animal shelter.
   Veterinary Hospital: Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   Vicious Animal: Any animal that attacks, bites, or injures human beings or
domesticated animals without adequate provocation, or which, because of
temperament, conditioning or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite,
or injure human beings or domesticated animals.
   Wild Animal: Any living member of the animal kingdom, including those born
or raised in captivity, except the following: human beings, domestic dogs
(excluding hybrids with wolves, coyotes or jackals), domestic cats (excluding
hybrids with ocelots or margays), farm animals, rodents (such as a mouse or
squirrel), any hybrid animal that is part wild, and captive-bred species of
common cage birds.
   Zoological Park: Any facility operated by a person, partnership,
corporation, or government agency, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying
or exhibiting one or more species of nondomesticated animals.
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 1, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-1, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 1, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-76 Town Manager Responsibilities.
   The Town Manager of the Town of Dyer shall have the following
responsibilities with regards to animal control:
   (a)   Recommend to the Town Council promulgation of or revisions to rules
and regulations concerning the operation of the animal shelter, standards for
the collection, care, custody and disposal of animals at large and public
nuisance animals and standards for the maintenance of holding facilities for
guard and sentry dogs;
   (b)   Review the proposed budget of the Animal Control Department and make
recommendations for funding of the same to the members of the respective Town
Council;
   (c)   Upon written complaint, conduct an investigation and public hearing,
if necessary, to determine if an animal or holding facility constitutes a
public nuisance;
    (d)   Upon written recommendation by the Animal Control Officer, revoke any
license under this Article for violation of this Article, if deemed necessary;
   (e)   Upon written request by the Town Council of the Town of Dyer,
whichever may apply, hear and decide appeals of licenses that have been revoked
by the Animal Control Board for violations of this Article; and
   (f)   Recommend necessary and/or advisable changes to this Article regarding
the humane control and regulation of animals to the Town Council.
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 2, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-2, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 2, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-77 Licensing.
   (a)   Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having custody of any animal
over three months of age within the Town must obtain a license as herein
provided. This provision may not apply to small cage birds or to aquatic and
amphibian animals kept solely as pets.
   (b)   Written application for licenses, which shall include name and address
of applicant, description of the animal, the appropriate fee, and current
rabies certificate documenting date of administration and expiration with
either a one-year or three-year rabies vaccine, issued by a licensed
veterinarian or anti-rabies clinic, shall be made to the licensing authority.
   (c)   If not revoked, licenses for the keeping of dogs and cats shall be for
a period of one year.
   (d)   Application for a license must be made within thirty (30) days after
obtaining a dog or cat over three months of age; this requirement will not
apply to a nonresident keeping a dog or cat within the Town for not longer than
thirty (30) days.
   (e)   License fees shall not be required for certified Seeing Eye dogs,
hearing dogs, governmental police dogs, or other certified dogs that are
trained to assist the physically handicapped.
   (f)   Upon acceptance of the license application and fee, the licensing
authority shall issue a durable tag stamped with an identifying number and the
year of issuance. Tags should be designed so that they may be conveniently
fastened or riveted to the animal’s collar or harness.
   (g)   Dogs and cats must wear identification tags or identification collars
at all times when off the premises of their owners.
   (h)   The licensing authority shall maintain a record of the identifying
numbers of all tags issued and shall make this record available to the public
upon request.
   (i)   The licensing period shall begin with the fiscal year and shall run
for one year. A license application may be made up to thirty (30) days prior to
April 30 of the fiscal year and up to sixty (60) days thereafter. This
amendment shall be in effect for Year 2004 only and, at the conclusion of the
same, the time period within which to file a pet license application shall
revert to the original time period, namely, up to thirty (30) days prior to
March 31 of the fiscal year and up to sixty (60) days thereafter.
   (j)   Persons who fail to obtain a license as required within the time
period specified in this section will be subject to a fine of ten dollars
($10.00)
   (k)   A license shall be issued after payment of the following application
fee:
 
Non-neutered male dog $20.00 Neutered male dog $5.00
Non-spayed female dog 20.00  Neutered male cat 5.00
Non-neutered male cat 10.00  Spayed female dog 5.00
Non-spayed female cat 10.00  Spayed female cat 5.00
 
   (l)   A duplicate tag may be obtained upon payment of a one dollar ($1.00)
replacement fee.
   (m)   No person may use any license for any animal other than the animal for
which it was issued.
   (n)   Animals rented solely for the purpose of guarding a business or
residence are exempt from licensing with the Town. However, the contractor
providing guard animals must be able to produce vaccination records immediately
upon request. Also, any such establishment must provide written notice to the
Town upon commencement of operation of said business.
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 3, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-3, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2004-03, 1-20-04; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 3,
4-16-08)
Sec. 6-78 Permits and Fees.
   (a)   No person, partnership, or corporation shall operate a commercial
animal establishment or animal shelter without first obtaining a permit in
compliance with this Section.
   (b)   The respective Town Councils shall promulgate regulations for the
issuance of permits which shall include requirements for humane care of all
animals and for compliance with the provisions of this Article and other
applicable laws. The Town Councils may amend such regulations from time to time
as deemed desirable for public health, safety and welfare and for the
protection of animals, and upon recommendation from the Animal Control Officer.
   (c)   When a permit applicant has shown that he or she is willing and able
to comply with the regulations promulgated by the Town Council, a permit shall
be issued upon payment of the applicable fee.
   (d)   The permit period shall begin with the fiscal year and shall run for
one year. Renewal applications for permits shall be made at least thirty (30)
days prior to and up to sixty (60) days after the start of the fiscal calendar
year. Applications for a permit to establish a new commercial animal
establishment under the provisions of this Article may be made at any time.
   (e)   No business shall train any dog to be used as a guard dog or sentry
dog without possessing a valid license. This section shall not apply to the
Town government or any of its agencies. An application for a guard dog or
sentry dog training license shall state the name and address of the owner and
trainer, location of the facility, and the maximum number of dogs to be housed
at the training facility.
   (f)   Annual permits for guard or sentry dog training facilities shall be
issued upon payment of the applicable fee:
Kennel authorized to house fewer than six (6) dogs or cats          $150.00
Kennel authorized to house six (6) or more, but fewer than ten (10) 200.00
dogs or cats
Kennel authorized to house ten (10) or more dogs or cats            250.00
Breeder permits                                                     50.00
Pet shops                                                           150.00
Riding stable                                                       100.00
Auction                                                             100.00
Zoological park                                                     200.00
Circus                                                              200.00
Grooming shops                                                      100.00
Petting zoo                                                         300.00
Guard dog training center                                           300.00
 
   (g)   Every facility regulated by this Article shall be considered a
separate enterprise requiring a separate permit.
   (h)   No fee shall be required of any veterinary hospital, animal shelter,
or government-operated zoological park.
   (i)   Failure to obtain a permit before opening any facility covered in this
section shall result in a fine as set forth in Section
6-89.
   (j)   Failure to obtain a breeders permit prior to breeding shall result in
a fine as set forth in Section
6-89.
   (k)   Any person who has a change in the category under which a permit was
issued shall be subject to reclassification and readjustment of the permit fee.
   (l)   No more than five dogs and/or cats combined over the age of three
months may be kept on any residential, commercial or other premises within the
Town unless the owner or owners of the animals provide prior notification to
the Town and the same is approved by appropriate officials.
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 4, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-4, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 4, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-79 License and Permit Issuance and Revocation.
General Permit.
   (a)   After an application for a license to or permit to operate a facility
referenced in Section
6-78 is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall inspect the facility prior to
issuing the permit. The Animal Control Officer may revoke any permit or license
if the person(s) holding the permit or license refuses or fails to comply with
the provisions of this Article, the regulations promulgated by the Town
Council, or any law governing the protection and keeping of animals.
   (b)   When a permit applicant has shown that he or she is willing and able
to comply with the regulations promulgated by the Town Council, a permit shall
be issued upon payment of the applicable permit or license fee.
   (c)   Any person whose permit or license is revoked shall, within ten days
thereafter, humanely dispose of all animals owned, kept or harbored. No part of
the permit or license fee shall be refunded in a case or revocation. It shall
be a condition of the issuance of any permit or license that the Animal Control
Officer or duly authorized agents shall be permitted to inspect all animals and
the premises where animals are kept at any time and, if permission for such
inspection is refused, the Board may revoke the permit or license of the
refusing owner(s)
   (d)   It shall be a condition of the issuance of any permit or license that
the Animal Control Officer or the Town’s duly authorized agents, shall be
permitted to inspect all animals and the premises where animals are kept at any
time and shall, if permission for such inspection is refused, revoke the permit
or license of the refusing owner.
   (e)   If the applicant has withheld or falsified any information on the
license or permit application, the licensing authority shall refuse to issue a
permit or license.
   (f)   No person who has been convicted of cruelty to animals shall be issued
a pet license, permit or permit or license to operate a commercial animal
establishment.
   (g)   Any person having been denied a license or permit may not reapply for
a period of 30 days. A fifty dollar ($50.00) fee shall accompany each
reapplication.
Pet Shop Permit
   (a)   Any person operating a pet shop as defined in this chapter shall
obtain a pet shop permit.
   (b)   The permit holder shall furnish the purchaser a written statement at
the time of purchase containing the following:
      (1)   Date of sale.
      (2)   Permit number of permit holder.
      (3)   Breed, description, approximate age of animal sold (small mammals
other than cats or dogs, parrot type birds, and fish are not included).
      (4)   Medication and prophylactice immunization and dates administered.
      (5)   Internal parasite medication(s) and dates administered.
      (6)   A guarantee of good health for a period of not less than one week
with the recommendation to have the animal examined by a licensed veterinarian.
   (c)   The permit holder shall retain a copy of written statement for 12
months from date of sale.
   (d)   The Animal Control Officer or Health Department may restrict the sale
of, or adoption of any animal suspected of being diseased or otherwise unfit
for sale and/or adoption (an examination by a licensed veterinarian may be
requested).
   (e)   All pet shops and stores selling animals, birds, reptiles and/or fish
are subject to the inspection of the Animal Control Officer and/or Health
Department to ensure the health and welfare of any animal whether sold or
adopted from the premises is in good health and is maintained under the
regulations described.
   (f)   No puppy or kitten under the age of eight (8) weeks may be offered for
sale, trade, adoption, free give- away or other compensation (except a puppy or
kitten, or litter or litters taken by the Animal Control Department).
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 5, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-5, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 5, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-80 Restraint.
   (a)   All dogs shall be kept under restraint.
   (b)   All cats shall be kept under restraint.
   (c)   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his or her
animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (d)   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
secure enclosure in such a manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into
contact with another animal except for planned breeding.
   (e)   No person shall allow an animal to ride in an enclosed area of a motor
vehicle, both motor or pedal, including open bed cars and trucks, unless the
animal is confined by a securely affixed, well-ventilated container, cage or
other device designated to safely prevent the animal from falling or jumping
from the vehicle.
   (f)   No animal shall be hitched, tied or fastened by any rope, chain or
cord that is directly attached to the animal’s neck. Animals that must be tied,
hitched or fastened to restrain them must wear a properly fitted collar or
harness made of leather or nylon, not of choker type. This is not to prohibit
the proper use of choker collars in the training of animals. The tying device
shall be attached to the animal’s collar or harness and shall be at least six
(6) feet in length and must have a swivel device on the anchor and collar end
to prevent tangling and/or choking.
   (g)   Any animal that is tethered must have access to adequate water and
shelter at all times.
   (h)   Every vicious animal, as determined by the Animal Control Officer,
shall be confined by the owner(s) within a building or secure enclosure and
shall be securely muzzled or caged whenever off the premises of its owner(s).
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 6, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-6, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 6, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-81 Impoundment and Violation Notice.
   (a)   Unrestrained dogs and nuisance animals shall be taken by the police or
Animal Control Officer and impounded in an animal shelter and there confined in
a humane manner.
   (b)   Impounded dogs and cats shall be kept for not less than forty-eight
(48) hours, unless specifically determined otherwise by the Town of Dyer or its
Animal Control Officer.
   (c)   If, by a license tag or other means, the owner of an impounded animal
can be identified, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately upon
impoundment notify the owner by telephone, certified mail, or in person, of the
animal(s) location.
   (d)   An owner reclaiming an impounded cat shall pay a fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) per animal, if said animal(s) is claimed within the parameter of the
first 24 hours. A fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be imposed
thereafter. Any reoccurrence within a 12-month period shall cause a revisit to
determine the appropriate fine amount. Any and all medical fees and costs will
be added to the total charges deemed payable by said owner(s).
   (e)   An owner reclaiming an impounded dog shall pay a fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) per animal, if said animal(s) is claimed within the parameter of the
first 24 hours. A fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall be imposed
thereafter. Any reoccurrence with in a 12-month period shall cause a revisit to
determine the appropriate fine amount. Any and all medical fees and costs will
be added to the total charges deemed payable by said owner(s).
   (f)   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within forty-eight (48) hours
shall become the property of the Town of Dyer, and shall be placed for adoption
in a suitable home or humanely euthanized, unless said animal is determined to
be a threat to the facility, in which case that animal may be humanely
euthanized at the discretion of the Animal Control Officer.
   (g)   In addition to, or in lieu of, impounding an animal found at large,
the Animal Control Officer or police officer may issue to the known owner(s) of
such animal a notice of ordinance violation. Such notice shall impose upon the
owner a penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense, one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for the second offense and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
every offense thereafter, to be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer within the time
period specified on said notice of ordinance violation. In the event that such
penalty is not paid within the time period prescribed, said violation shall be
prosecuted in the same manner as all local ordinance violations.
   (h)   The Animal Control Officer shall review automatically all licenses
issued to animal owners against whom three or more ordinance violations have
been issued under this article in a twelve (12) month period, and shall
determine what action it deems appropriate in such instances.
   (i)   The Animal Control Officer shall keep complete and accurate records of
the care, feeding, veterinary treatment, and disposition of all animals
impounded at the shelter.
   (j)   After a dog or cat has bitten a person or other animal, the following
action will be taken:
      (1) If the owner of the dog or cat is able to provide documentary
evidence confirming the current status of vaccinations (shots), the dog or cat
can be confined inside the owner’s residence for a period of ten days, as
required by applicable Indiana Code, provided such action is approved by the
Animal Control Officer.
      (2) If the owner of the dog or cat is unable to provide documentary
evidence confirming the current status of vaccinations, the dog or cat shall be
quarantined for a period of ten days at an animal hospital or veterinary clinic
with the owner paying all costs of confinement. It shall be the sole
responsibility of the owner to provide verification of the animal’s
vaccinations (shots) to the Animal Control Officer.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of every physician or other practitioner to
report to the Animal Control Officer the names and address(es) of persons
treated for bites, inflicted by animals together with such information as
necessary to aid with rabies control. It shall be the duty of every licensed
veterinarian to report to the Animal Control Officer his or her diagnosis of
any animal observed by him or her as a rabies suspect.
      (4)   Any animal that has three documented unprovoked bite incidents
shall be recommended to the Town of Dyer to be deemed “vicious.” Upon written
complaint to the Animal Control Board, a determination will be made as to the
disposition of said animal. The owner of a suspected vicious animal may
voluntarily surrender the animal to the Animal Control Officer for humane
disposal at any time prior to a determination being made. The owner will be
responsible for any fees incurred during the holding of said animal. 
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 7, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-7, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 7, 4-16-08; Am. Ord. No. 2009-21,
12-16-09)
Sec. 6-82 Animal Care. 9
   (a)   A dog, cat or ferret, three (3) months of age or older, must be
vaccinated against rabies by a licensed and accredited veterinarian yearly.
   (b)   No owner shall fail to provide his/her animal(s) with sufficient
wholesome and nutritious food, water in sufficient quantities, proper air,
shelter space and protection from weather, veterinary care when needed to
prevent suffering and humane care and treatment.
   (c)   No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload, overwork
or otherwise abuse an animal or cause, instigate or permit any dogfight,
cockfight, bullfight, or other combat between animals or between animals and
humans.
   (d)   No owner of an animal shall abandon such animal.
   (e)   No person shall crop a dog’s ears or dock a dog’s tail except a
licensed veterinarian. In no event shall any person except a licensed
veterinarian perform such an operation.
   (f)   Chickens, ducklings or rabbits younger than eight (8) weeks of age may
not be sold in quantities of less than twenty-five (25) to a single purchaser.
   (g)   No person shall give away any live animal, reptile or bird as a prize
for, or as an inducement to enter, any contest, game or other competition, as
an inducement to enter a place of amusement or as an incentive to enter into
any business agreement whereby the offer was for the purpose of attracting
trade.
   (h)   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether mixed
with food or not, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by an animal,
provided that it shall be lawful for a person to expose on his or her own real
property common rat poison mixed only with vegetable substance.
   (i)   No person or persons shall confine any animal in a motor vehicle in
such a manner that places said animal in a life or health threatening situation
by exposure to a prolonged period of extreme heat or cold, without proper
ventilation or other protection from such heat or cold. In order to protect the
health and safety of an animal, an Animal Control Officer, law enforcement
officer or other investigator, who has probable cause to believe that this
Section is being violated shall have authority to enter such motor vehicle by
any reasonable means under the circumstances after making a reasonable effort
to locate the owner or person. The animal’s owner shall be liable for any cost
incurred for removal of the animal.
   (j)   No person shall possess animal fighting paraphernalia and a dog, cock,
fowl or any animal bearing a scar or injury consistent with animal fighting.
   (k)   No person shall permit anyone to use any building, shed, room, yard,
ground, premises, vehicle or property, whether enclosed or not, for the purpose
of animal fighting.
   (l)   The board or its agent may make sanitary inspections and surveys in
all parts of this state, and shall have the right to enter upon any public or
private property, examining such animals, conducting rests in regard
to the presence of an infectious, contagious, or communicable disease of
domestic animals and the possible sources of such disease, and performing other
function authorized by this article (I.C. 15-2.1-3-1) in compliance with
Indiana Animal Law.
   (m)   Public sale means any sale where the general public is invited to
participate whether held in an established place of business dedicated
principally to the sale of domestic animals or at a place where such sales are
infrequently held. Standards for the sale and/or adoption of domesticated
animals at a public place are as follows:
      (1)   Cage area must be clean and clutter free, with proper sanitary
measures taken to ensure the area does not become offensive to the public.
      (2)   Food and water must be provided to any animal that is on display
for sale or adoption.
      (3)   Daily cleaning schedule must be posted.
      (4)   Current vaccine records must be available at all times for any and
every animal that is on display for sale or adoption (small mammals, parrot
like birds and fish are not included).
      (5)   Disinfectant must be present for use in handling and maintaining
area of animals that are on display.
      (6)   Location of cages and/or crates should not block product aisles or
obstruct customer traffic flow (the store must provided consistent designated
locations).
      (7)   Any animal for sale and adoption must be properly restrained under
the provisions in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 8, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-8, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 8, 4-16-08)
                          
9   I.C., §15-2.1-21-8, addresses running at large, and I.C., §15-2.1-6-1, et
seq., addresses rabies quarantine procedures and health care requirements.
Sec. 6-83 Keeping of Exotic Animals.
   (a)   Facilities (outdoors).
      (1)   When sunlight is likely to cause overheating or discomfort,
sufficient shade shall be provided to allow animals kept outdoors to protect
themselves from the direct rays of the sun.
      (2)   Whenever animals are outdoors, they shall be provided with access
to shelter to allow them to remain dry during rain or snow.
      (3)   In kennels where animals are housed exclusively outdoors, adequate
shelter from the weather shall be provided at all times when the atmosphere
temperature falls below 50 ° F. Sufficient clean bedding material or other
means of protection from the weather elements shall be provided when the
ambient atmosphere temperature (that temperature to which an animal is
acclimated) falls below 40° F. Each shelter shall be provided with a windbreak
at its entrance.
      (4)   A suitable method shall be provided to drain surface water rapidly.
      (5)   Surfaces of outdoor enclosures of pet shops, shelters, and boarding
kennels shall be constructed and maintained so that they are impervious to
moisture and may be readily cleaned and disinfected. Run-off from outdoor
enclosures shall be disposed of properly.
   (b)   Primary enclosures.
      (1)   Primary enclosures shall be structurally sound and maintained in
good repair so as to:
         a.   Contain the animals.
         b.   Protect animals from injury.
         c.   Keep predators out.
         d.   Ensure that animals remain dry and clean.
         e.   Permit anima’'s convenient access to food and water as required
by this Article.
         f.   Provide sufficient space for each animal to turn about freely and
to stand, sit, and lie in a comfortable normal position.
         g.    Have no sharp edges accessible to the animals that could cause
injury.
      (2)   In addition to the other provisions of this Section, each dog in
any primary enclosure shall be provided a minimum square footage of floor space
equal to the mathematical square of the sum of the length of the dog in inches,
as measured from the tip of its nose to the base of its tail, plus six inches,
expressed in square feet.
      (3)   Animals housed in the same primary enclosure shall be maintained in
compatible groups, with the following additional restrictions:
         a.   Females shall not be housed in the same primary enclosure with
sexually intact males, except for breeding purposes.
         b.   Any animal exhibiting a vicious disposition shall be housed
individually in a primary enclosure.
         c.   Immature animals shall not be housed in the same primary
enclosures with adults other than their mothers, except when permanently
maintained in breeding colonies.
         d.   Animals of different species shall not be housed in the same
primary enclosures.
      (4)   The floors of primary enclosures shall be constructed so as to
protect the animal’s feet and legs from injury. Enclosures may have grid type
flooring, provided that the grid material is of adequate gauge to prevent
sagging under the weight of the animals and that the mesh is small enough to
prevent their feet from passing through or to cause cutting injuries to the
foot pad.
      (5)   Adult dogs confined in cages of less than double the minimum
standard size as stated in subsection (b)(2) above, shall be exercised on runs
at least twice a day or walked on a leash for at least 20 minutes per day.
      (6)   Animals shall not be tied to fences or cages or any other structure
in lieu of being housed in primary enclosures.
      (7)   Animals shall not be kept in any vehicle in lieu of being kept in a
suitable primary enclosure.
   (c)   Enclosures.
      (1)   Weatherproof. Shelter must be of solid construction. There shall be
no crack or openings other than the entrance. The shelter shall not have any
metal or plastic primary interior surfaces. Commercially made shelters with
insulation material between the inner and outer layers of fiberglass/plastic
construction are generally acceptable.
      (2)   Elevated. Floor must be off the ground by at least two inches.
      (3)   Door map. Entrance must be covered with a flexible flap and/or
entrance placed down wind when necessary to protect the animal from the
elements of the weather.
      (4)   Bedding. Bedding must be dry. Straw, leaves, hay, cedar chips or
other material must be provided as needed during cold and inclement weather.
      (5)   Size. Large enough to allow the animal to enter, stand, turn around
and lie down comfortably. Small enough to allow the animal to warm the interior
with its body.
      (6)   If a chain, rope or other such item is used to restrain the animal,
it shall be of sufficient length to safely and humanely allow the animal
freedom of movement without becoming entangled with obstructions. It must be of
sufficient length to allow the animal access to shelter at all times.
   (d)   No person shall own, possess or have custody on his or her premises
any wild or vicious animal for display, training or exhibition purposes,
whether gratuitously or for a fee. This subsection shall not be construed to
apply to The American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums (AAZPA)
accredited facilities.
   (e)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept as a pet any wild animal
including, but not limited to, hybrids dogs and cats.
   (f)   The Animal Control Officer shall have the power to release or order
the release of any infant wild animal under temporary permit that is deemed
capable of survival.
(Ord. No. 02-2002 , 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 9, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-84 Keeping of Animals Classified as Farm Animals.
   (a)   No person shall own, possess or have custody on his or her premises
any animal classified as a farm animal including horses, pigs, goats, chickens,
and the like, unless said person operates a farm.
   (b)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept any farm animal as a pet.
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 10, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-10, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 10, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-85 Performing Animal Exhibitions.
   (a)   No person may sponsor, promote or train a wild, domestic or exotic
animal to participate in, contribute to the involvement of an animal in or
attend as a spectator any activity or event in which any wild animal engages in
unnatural behavior or is wrestled, fought, mentally or physically harassed or
displayed in such a way that the animal is abused or stressed mentally or
physically or is induced or encouraged to perform through the use of chemical,
mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner that will cause or is
likely to cause physical injury or suffering. This prohibition applies to
events and activities taking place in either public or private facilities or
property and applies regardless of the purpose of the event or activities and
irrespective of whether or not a fee is charged to spectators.
   (b)   All equipment used on a performing animal shall fit properly and be in
good working condition.
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 11, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-11, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 11, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-86 Animal Waste.
   (a)   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any
excreta deposited by his or her animal(s) on public walks, recreation areas or
private property.
   (b)   The owner of any dead animal shall remove and properly dispose of the
animal within 24 hours of its death. A real property owner is responsible for
the removal of any strange carcass on such real property.
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 12, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-12, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 12, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-87 Sterilization.
No unclaimed dog or cat shall be released for adoption without being sterilized
or without written agreement from the adopter guaranteeing that such animal
will be sterilized within 30 days for adults and a specified date in the
contract for puppies and kittens. A deposit comparable to the cost of
sterilization must be paid at the time of adoption.
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 13, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-13, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 13, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-88 Enforcement.
The civil and criminal provisions of this Article shall be enforced by those
persons or agencies designated by the municipal authority. It shall be a
violation of this Article to interfere with the Animal Control Officer in the
performance of his or her duties. In the event that any costs are incurred as a
result of the information in this Article, such as medical expenses for the
treatment of animals, it shall be the responsibility of the owner of said
animal to reimburse the municipality for said expenses.
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 14, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-14, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 14, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-89 Penalties.
Any person violating any provision of this Article shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) and not more than two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00). If a violation continues, each day’s violation shall be deemed a
separate violation. If any person is found guilty by a court for violating
Section
6-82, his or her permit to own, keep, harbor or have custody of animals shall
be deemed automatically revoked and no new permit may be issued.
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 15, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-15, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 15, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-90 Exceptions.
   The provisions of this Article shall not apply to:
   (a)   Guide dogs being used to assist the visually or physically impaired;
   (b)   Animals being used by any governmental law enforcement agency; and/or
   (c)   Animals that are a part of a parade or show that have been properly
authorized by the Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. No. 2002-09, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-02, § 16, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-91 Trapping.
   (a)   Any individual, firm, corporation or commercial establishment who
intentionally or accidentally attracts any type of animal onto their property
with the purpose of trapping or any other capture that has not been approved by
the Department of Animal Control assumes ownership of said animal(s) and must
remove the animal(s) at their own expense or take responsibility for the
welfare of that animal. The Department of Animal Control under the Town of
Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, will not take liability for such acts.
   (b)   Traps discovered by the Department of Animal Control to have been set
in a manner that is in conflict with this chapter may be seized and the person
(s) responsible for the setting of the traps may be fined Fifty Dollars
($50.00) under penalty of the ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2008-02, § 17, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-92 Wild animals.
   (a)   No person shall own, possess, or have custody on his premises any
deemed wild or vicious animal for display, training or exhibition purposes,
whether gratuitously or for a fee. This section shall not be construed to apply
to AAZPA accredited facilities.
   (b)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept any wild animal as a pet,
this being determined by the Animal Control Officer.
   (c)   The Animal Control Officer shall have the power to release or order
the release of any infant wild animal under temporary permit that is deemed
capable of survival.
(Ord. No. 95-32, § 9, 12-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 98-04, § 3-9, 2-10-98; Am. Ord.
No. 2008-02, § 18, 4-16-08)
Sec. 6-93 Prohibiting Pet Sales.
   (a)   Definitions.
      “Animal care facility” means an animal control center or animal shelter,
maintained by or under contract with any state, county, or municipality, whose
mission and practice significantly involve rescue and placement of animals in
permanent homes or rescue organizations.
      “Animal rescue organization” means any not-for-profit organization which
has tax-exempt status under Section 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal
Revenue Code, whose mission and practice significantly involve rescue and
placement of animals in permanent homes. This term does not include any entity
that: (1) is or operates on the premises of a breeder or broker; (2) obtains
dogs from a breeder or broker in exchange for payment or compensation; or (3)
resells dogs obtained from a breeder or broker and provides payment or
compensation to such breeder or broker.
      “Cat” means a member of the species of domestic cat, Felis catus.
      “Dog” means a member of the species of domestic dog, Canis familiaris.
      “Offer for sale” means to sell, offer for sale or adoption, advertise the
sale of, barter, auction, give away or otherwise dispose of a dog or cat.
      “Pet store” means a retail establishment where dogs, cats, or other
animals are offered for sale as pet animals to the general public. This term
does not include an animal care facility or animal rescue organization.
   (b)   Restrictions on the Sale of Animals. No pet store may sell, deliver,
offer for sale, barter, auction, give away, or otherwise transfer or dispose of
dogs or cats. Nothing in this section prohibits pet stores from collaborating
with animal care facilities or animal rescue organizations to offer space to
showcase adoptable dogs and cats. (Ord. No. 2021-20, §§ 1, 2, 9-9-21)
Sec. 6-94 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 8. FIREWORKS REGULATIONS.
Sec. 6-95 Definitions.
   (a)   Consumer Fireworks. Includes small fireworks that are defined as small
devices designed to produce an audible effect, such as whistling devices,
ground devices containing fifty (50) milligrams or less of explosive
composition, and aerial devices containing one hundred thirty (130) milligrams
or less of explosive composition. Propelling or expelling charges of a mixture
of charcoal, sulfur, and potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to
produce an audible effect. Aerial devices, may include sky rockets, missile
type rockets, helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines and shells.
Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes, and chasers.
Devices containing combinations of the effects described as aerial devices and
ground audible devices are also included as Consumer Fireworks.
   (b)   Fireworks Exclusions. The following items are excluded in the
definition of fireworks: model rockets, toy pistol caps, emergency signal
flares, matches, fixed ammunition for firearms, ammunition components intended
for use in firearms, muzzle loading cannons, or small arms, shells, cartridges
and primers for use in firearms, muzzle loading cannons, or small arms, indoor
pyrotechnics special effects material, M-80's, cherry bombs, silver salutes,
and any device banned by the federal government.
   (c)   Section 8(a) Fireworks. Includes dipped sticks, wire sparklers,
cylindrical fountains, cone fountains, illuminating torches, wheels, ground
spinner, flitter sparklers, snakes or glow worms, smoke devices, trick
noisemakers such as party poppers, booby traps, snappers and trick matches,
cigarette loads and auto burglar alarms.
   (d)   Special Fireworks. Fireworks designed primarily to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, including
firecrackers containing more than one hundred thirty (130) milligrams of
explosive composition, aerial shells containing more than forty (40) grams of
pyrotechnic composition and other exhibition display items that exceed the
limits for classification as consumer fireworks. A person may not possess,
transport, or deliver special fireworks, except as authorized under I.C., § 22-
11-14-2.
(Ord. No. 2007-15, 8-15-07)
Sec. 6-96 Special Permit.
   (a)   The owner, occupant, or agent of an organization, business or group
that uses any type of fireworks or pyrotechnic special effects materials used
indoor or outdoor, shall apply for a special permit issued by the Town Council
at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the use of the fireworks or
pyrotechnical devices. This permit shall be in addition to any other permits
required by federal or state agencies. The permit must be made available upon
request of the Fire Chief or his designee.
   (b)   The storage, use and handling of fireworks and pyrotechnics special
effects shall be in accordance with Indiana Fire Code (675 Indiana
Administrative Code 22), Article 76 and I.C., § 22-11-14 et seq., and current
edition of National Fire Protection Association standards for fireworks.
   (c)   An applicant shall pay a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) when
submitting the special permit application.
   (d)   The special permit application must be approved and signed by the Town
Council and contain the following information to be valid:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of the individual person or company
doing the production or display;
      (2)   Name and qualifications of the individual person or operator doing
the production or display;
      (3)   Contact name, address and phone for whom the production or display
is being performed;
      (4)   A detailed location where the display shall take place;
      (5)   Date and time of the display;
      (6)   Estimated number of fireworks or pyrotechnical devices to be used
and length of show; and
      (7)   A copy of a valid certificate of insurance conditioned for damages
and/or injury to persons or property for said event in the amount of not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) shall be attached to and submitted
with each application for and shall become part of the special permit.
   (e)   The above fees or requirements may be waived by the Town Council for
any public fireworks display sponsored by any state or local governmental
agency.
(Ord. No. 2007-15, 8-15-07)
Sec. 6-97 Use and Discharge, Generally.
   (a)   Age requirement. Consumer fireworks and Section 8(a) fireworks shall
not be purchased by persons under eighteen (18) years of age.
   (b)   Possession by minors. Children shall only possess or use any kind of
fireworks when an adult is present.
   (c)   Location of use. Consumer fireworks shall exclusively be used on:
      (1)   The user’s property; or
      (2)   The property of someone who has consented to the use of fireworks
on the property; or
      (3)   A location authorized by special permit as a special discharge
location, that is defined as a place designated for the discharge of consumer
fireworks under policies of the State Fire Marshal in effect until the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission adopts rules, as amended from time to
time.
   (d)   Exemptions. This Ordinance shall not be construed to prohibit the use
of fireworks by railroads or other transportation agencies, the sale or use of
blank cartridges for a show, ceremonial purpose, use by military organizations,
the intrastate sale of fireworks not approved for sale in Indiana between
interstate wholesalers, use of indoor pyrotechnics special effects material and
the possession, sale or disposal of fireworks incidental to the public display
of authorized Class B fireworks.
   (e)   Time of use. A person may utilize consumer fireworks and Section
6-95(a) fireworks on the following specific days, and no other, without a
special permit as follows:
      (1)   Between 5:00 p.m. and two (2) hours after sunset on June 29, June
30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July 9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (f)   Special permit. A person seeking to discharge fireworks, except as
permitted in subsection (e) above, must apply for and obtain a special permit
as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 2007-15, 8-15-07)
Sec. 6-98 Manufacturer, Wholesaler, Importer or Distributor.
   It shall be unlawful for a manufacturer, wholesaler, importer, or
distributor to sell at wholesale, offer to sell at wholesale, or ship or cause
to be shipped into the Town of Dyer fireworks, novelties, or trick noisemakers
unless they hold a valid certificate of compliance issued by the Indiana State
Fire Marshal. This provision applies to nonresidents and residents of Indiana.
(Ord. No. 2007-15, 8-15-07)
Sec. 6-99 Identification of Fireworks.
   All fireworks, novelties, and trick noisemakers shipped into the Town of
Dyer or manufactured or sold in the Town of Dyer, must have distinctly and
durably painted, stamped, printed or marked on the package, box or container in
which the items are enclosed the exact nature and quantity of the fireworks
contained in the container.
(Ord. No. 2007-15, 8-15-07)
Sec. 6-100 Sales.
   Retailers may not sell consumer fireworks until the retailer has met all
permit requirements and has obtained a Certificate of Compliance from the State
Fire Marshal. A Certificate of Compliance issued to a retailer of consumer
fireworks is not transferable except to a subsequent owner or operator of a
business at the same location in accordance with the policies and guidelines of
the State Fire Marshal.
(Ord. No. 2007-15, 8-15-07)
Sec. 6-101 Revocation of Special Permit.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates I.C., § 22-11-14 et seq. or the
provisions herein shall be subject to applicable penalties and/or revocation of
their permit to sell fireworks. This provision shall apply to all retailers,
manufactures, wholesalers, importers, and distributors.
(Ord. No. 2007-15, 8-15-07)
Sec. 6-102 Penalty.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this Ordinance
shall, upon conviction or finding of liable, be fined in an amount not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not exceeding two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) for each violation.
(Ord. No. 2007-15, 8-15-07)
Sec. 6-103 through Sec. 6-109 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 9. AIR RIFLES, AIR PISTOLS AND SLING SHOTS.
Sec. 6-110 Discharging in Public Ways Prohibited.
No person shall be permitted to discharge or fire any air rifle, air gun, air
pistol, spring rifle, spring gun, sling shot, or any similar device which is
calculated or intended to propel or project a bullet, pellet, arrow, or other
projectile or missile upon any public way or street within the town limits or
to discharge or fire such device as to have the said bullet, pellet, arrow,
projectile or missile travel any space used as a public way in said Town of
Dyer, Lake County, Indiana. (Ord. No. 399, § 1, 2-10-59)
Sec. 6-111 Consent of Owner Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any air rifle, air
gun, air pistol, spring rifle, spring gun, sling shot, or any similar device
which is calculated or intended to propel or project a bullet, pellet, arrow,
or other projectile or missile upon or against any property in the corporate
limits of the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, without the consent of the
owner thereof. (Ord. No. 399, § 2, 2-10-59)
Sec. 6-112 Impoundment.
Such air rifle, air gun, air pistol, spring rifle, spring gun, sling shot, or
other similar device used in the manner prohibited by any section of this
Article be immediately seized and impounded until such time as disposition of
such device can be made by the proper judicial authority. (Ord. No. 399, § 3,
2-10-59)
Sec. 6-113 Penalties.
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this Article shall upon
conviction, be fined not less than fifty ($50.00) dollars. (Ord. No. 399, § 4,
2-10-59; Ord. No. 89-38, 10-10-89)
Sec. 6-114 and Sec. 6-115 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 10. HUNTING WITH FIREARMS PROHIBITED. 11
                              
11   I.C., §35-47-2-7, prohibits person under eighteen (18) years of age to own
firearms.
Sec. 6-116 Hunting Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt with a firearm or any other weapon
within the town limits of the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, without
obtaining the express, written, permission of the Town Council.
(Ord. No. 393, § 1, 12-9-58; Am. Ord. No. 2003-32, 11-18-03)
Sec. 6-117 Shooting of Firearms Prohibited - Exceptions.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except police officers in the
performance of their duties, to discharge or shoot any firearms within the town
limits of the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana.
(Ord. No. 392, § 2, 12-9-58)
Sec. 6-118 Minors.
No person, company, partnership or corporation, shall within the town of Dyer,
Indiana, sell or give away to any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years of
age, any gunpowder, explosive shells or ammunition such as is used in shot
guns, rifles or other shooting arms or firearms.
(Ord. No. 25, § 4, 1-7-13)
Sec. 6-119 Penalties.
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this Article shall upon
conviction, be fined not less than fifty ($50.00) dollars for each violation.
(Ord. No. 392, § 3, 12-9-58; Ord. No. 89-38, 10-10-89)
Sec. 6-120 through Sec. 6-123 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 11. SIDEWALKS FREE OF ICE AND SNOW.
Sec. 6-124 Duty to Remove Ice and Snow.
It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation owning, leasing,
occupying or using any real estate in said Town to shovel and remove all snow
and ice from the Public sidewalks or abutting any such real estate within a
reasonable time from the accumulation Thereof, and to keep said sidewalks free
from snow and ice.
(Ord. No. 72, § 1, 2-6-23)
Sec. 6-125 Penalties.
Any person, firm or cooperation owning any real estate within the Town of Dyer,
Indiana, or any tenant or occupant of any such real estate, who shall so fail,
refuse or neglect to keep said sidewalks free from snow and ice as provided for
by Section
6-124, shall, upon conviction, be fined fifty ($50.00) dollars for each
violation of this ordinance. Each day that any person, firm or corporation or
tenant or occupant of any of said premises shall fail, refuse or neglect to
remove said snow or ice or shall fail or refuse to keep said sidewalks free
from snow or ice, as herein provided, shall be a separate violation of this
Article.
(Ord. No. 72, § 2, 26-23; Ord. No. 89-38, 10-10-89)
Sec. 6-126 and Sec. 6-127 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 12. CURFEW REGULATIONS. 12
                           
12   I.C., §31-6-4-2, addresses curfews.
Sec. 6-128 Minor Curfew.
   (a)   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age be in
a public place:
      (1)   Between 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
      (2)   After 10:30 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
      (3)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
   (b)   It is a curfew violation for a child less than fifteen (15) years of
age to be in a public place after 10:00 p.m. or before 5:30 a.m. on any day.
   (c)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      (1)   The child has violated this section; and
      (2)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
(Ord. No. 95-23, 9-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 2000-08, 5-16-00; Am. Ord. No. 2002-02,
1-30-02; Am. Ord. No. 2004-16, 5-16-04)
Sec. 6-129 Violations.
   (a)   An officer of the Town Metropolitan Police Department may take into
custody any person violating the terms and provisions of Section
6-128(a) set forth hereinabove, as deemed appropriate by that officer. It shall
be the duty of the police officer to contact a parent, guardian or other person
having legal custody of the minor person in order to release the minor person
to the custody of that person.
   (b)   In the event any parent, guardian or other person having legal custody
of the minor person refuses to take custody of the minor child upon
notification by the Town Police Officer, the following action may be taken by
the Town Police Department: a local ordinance citation or uniform complaint and
summons, in form prescribed for such purposes by the Department for such use,
may be issued to that person.
(Ord. No. 95-23, 9-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 99-18, 7-13-99; Am. Ord. No. 2000-08, 5-
16-00)
Sec. 6-130 Penalty.
Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this article shall be fined
fifty dollars ($50.00). Twenty-five dollars ($25.00) of the fine shall be
deposited into the Town Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund (LECEF) for
the purposes as set forth and permitted by Town Code Section
2-187 as amended from time to time. The remaining portion of the fine in the
amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) shall be deposited to the Town General
Fund. Each offense of violation of this article shall be deemed a separate
offense, with separate fines for each as set forth herein. All such fines shall
be paid to the Local Ordinance Violations Bureau, administered by the Clerk-
Treasurer of the Town.
(Ord. No. 95-23, 9-12-95; Am. Ord. No. 2000-08, 5-16-00)
Sec. 6-131 through Sec. 6-133 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 13. DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.13
                              
13   I.C., §13-7-1-11, defines “garbage”, and I.C., §13-7-1-9, defines
“disposal”.
Sec. 6-134 Definitions.
The following terms used herein shall be held to mean as follows:
   (a)   Garbage - kitchen and table refuse, swill and every accumulation of
both vegetable and animal matter that attends the cooking, preparation,
handling, dealing in or storing of meats, fish, fowl, fruits and vegetables.
(Ord. No. 568, § 1(a), 11-10-64)
   (b)   Rubbish - shall include paper, cardboard, excelsior, weeds, lawn
sweepings, grass, cloth, rags, leather scraps, carpets, rugs, glass, cans,
bricks, and similar materials.
(Ord. No. 84-44, § 1 (b), 10-9-84)
   (c)   Container - shall include, but not be limited to, those receptacles
which contain trash, recyclable materials, yard waste, and the like.
(Ord. No. 2000-24, § 1, 9-15-00)
Sec. 6-135 Proper Disposal Required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw out or deposit on any lot, ground,
premises, right-of-way, street, alley, stream, bank, drive, sidewalk, or
parkway within the limits of the Town of Dyer, Indiana garbage or rubbish.
(Ord. No. 568, § 2, 11-10-64)
Sec. 6-136 Container Regulations.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of every person who is the owner or occupant of
any premises within the corporate limits of the Town of Dyer to use the
containers provided by the waster hauler for the Town of Dyer.
   (b)   Garbage and rubbish and containers shall be placed out for collection
no sooner than 6:00 p.m. the day prior to scheduled pickup, and returned to
storage location by 8:00 p.m. on the day of pickup.
   (c)   All receptacles for garbage and trash shall be kept clean and in a
sanitary condition.
   (d)   All garbage containers and receptacles required by the Town Code, as
amended from time to time, shall be stored so as not to be visible from the
street unless the size of the property and location of the home on the lot
prohibits the same.
   (e)   All owners or occupants of premises within the corporate limits of the
Town of Dyer shall be responsible for loose garbage on their premises.
   (f)   The Town of Dyer (or its authorized agent) shall not collect or
provide pick-up service for persons violating the terms of this ordinance.
   (g)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
Article shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than Fifty Dollars ($50.00)
for each violation. Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. No. 902, § 1-10, 6-11-74; Ord. No. 89-38, 10-10-89; Ord. No. 2000-12, 7-
18-00; Ord. No. 2011-15, 11-10-2011)
Sec. 6-137 Collection By The Town.
Garbage and rubbish shall systematically be collected by the Town of Dyer (or
its authorized agent), and will be removed and disposed of only at such
residences where the provisions of this Article are observed and obeyed. Any
person or persons owning or leasing any residence or establishment that fails
to comply with the provisions of this Article shall promptly remove and dispose
of the garbage and rubbish accumulated by such person or persons at their own
expense, and in a sanitary manner.
The Town of Dyer (or its authorized agent) shall supply free of charge
recycling containers to all residents participating in the voluntary Dyer
Curbside Recycling Program. Should a resident require any additional containers
due to increased recycling efforts, a charge will be made to the resident equal
to the current price for recycling containers as paid by the Town to its
supplier of recycling containers.
Replacement of containers. Should th initial trash and recycling containers
issued to a resident need to be replaced due to major damage or other similar
loss, the resident shall contact the current waste hauler to make arrangement
for replacement containers.
Placement of containers. Containers shall be placed within four (4) feet o f
the roadway, unless otherwise prohibited by weather conditions. There shall be
at least three (3) feet of clearance between the container and any other item
near it. Trash shall not be placed on top of the containers. All other trash
bagged or canned will be picked up by the driver. The containers shall be
places at the curb with the arrows on the lid pointing to the street. Should a
container not have arrows, the wheels should be away from the street. Items
that are too large to fit in the container (stove, couch, washer, dryer, etc.)
should be placed outside of the container with at least three (3) feet of
clearance on all sides.(Ord. No. 568, § 3, 11-10-64; Ord. No. 95-34, 12-12-95;
Ord. No. 2011-15, 11-10-2011)
Sec. 6-138 Reserved for future use.
Sec. 6-139 Location of Dumpster Units on Commercial Real Estate.
   (a)   No dumpster shall be located closer than eight (8') feet from any
utility meter, junction box, or regulator.
   (b)   Any person who violates the terms and provisions of this Article shall
be subject to a fine of fifty ($50.00) dollars payable through the Ordinance
Violation Bureau for first-time violations and not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00) thereafter, and each day may be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. No. 89-24, 7-11-89; Ord. No. 89-38, 10-10-89)
Sec. 6-140 Rubbish Fires Prohibited. 14
No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire or authorize any
such fire to be kindled within the limits of the Town of Dyer.
(Ord. No. 84-44, § 7, 10-9-84)
                          
14   I.C., §13-7-1-4, defines “air pollution”, and I.C., §13-7-1-15, defines
“open burning”.
Sec. 6-141 Enforcement and Penalties.
   (a)   Enforcement of the terms and provisions of this Article is vested in
the Town of Dyer Code Enforcement Officer. (Ord. No. 568, § 10, 11-10-64)
   (b)   Any person, firm or corporation found in violation of the terms and
provisions of this Article shall be fined in an amount not to exceed fifty
($50.00) dollars. Each day a violation exists shall be considered a separate
offense. (Ord. No. 568, § 11, 11-10-64; Ord. No. 2011-15, 11-10-2011)
Sec. 6-142 through Sec. 6-149 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 14. ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU. 15
Sec. 6-150 Ordinance Bureau Established.
There is established an Ordinance Violations Bureau for the Town of Dyer
pursuant to Indiana Code, § 33-6-3-1, et seq., as amended, for collection of
fines for violations of ordinances hereafter described, or added hereto at a
subsequent date, or adopted subsequent to enactment of this ordinance with a
fine of fifty ($50.00) dollars or less. (Ord. No. 89-38, § 1, 10-10-89)
Sec. 6-151 Clerk-Treasurer to be Administrator of the Bureau.
The Clerk-Treasurer is appointed and shall serve as the Violations Clerk, and
shall be Administrator of the Bureau. The Clerk-Treasurer and her staff, as her
agents, shall accept written appearances, waivers of trial, admissions of
violations, and payment of civil penalties in the amount and the violation as
provided in Sec. 6-152. (Ord. No. 89-38, § 1, 10-10-89)
                             
15   Editor's Note: Ord. No. 89-38, creating the Ordinance Violation, is also
set forth in §§2-220 through 2-223 of this Code.
Sec. 6-152 through Sec. 6-159 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 15. HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC MATERIAL SPILLS AND LEAKS.
Sec. 6-160 Service Charges for Hazardous or Toxic Material Spills and Leaks.
The procedures and fees addressing service charges for hazardous or toxic
material spills and leaks are set forth in Sections
4-20 and
4-21 of this Code.
Sec. 6-161 Reimbursement Procedures.
Shippers, transporters, owners of automobiles and other vehicles, and including
owners (or tenants) of fixed facilities within the Town of Dyer, who cause or
suffer leaks or spills of potentially hazardous or toxic materials within the
Town of Dyer, for which leaks or spills that the Dyer Volunteer Fire Department
vehicles and equipment and/or equipment of the Department of Public Works are
used in response, shall reimburse the Town within thirty (30) days for any such
equipment which has been damaged, destroyed, discarded or otherwise adversely
affected, based upon an estimate obtained accurately stating the cost of said
damage. (Ord. No. 88-6, § 2, 2-9-88) 16
                        
16   Editor's Note: Ord. No. 90-32 contained a scrivener's error listing “Board
of Public Works” instead of “Department of Public Works”.
Sec. 6-162 Clean-Up Contractors and Direct Payment Procedures.
Shippers, transporters, owners of automobiles and other vehicles, and including
owners (or tenants) of fixed facilities within the Town of Dyer, who cause or
suffer leaks or spills of potentially hazardous or toxic materials within the
Town of Dyer, for the clean-up of which separate clean-up contractors are
required to be called in (in the determination and at the discretion of the
Dyer Volunteer Fire Department) shall assume and bear full responsibility for
the direct payment for said clean-up to the clean-up contractor. (Ord. No. 88-
6, § 3, 2-9-88)
Sec. 6-163 Billing Procedures.
The Dyer Volunteer Fire Department and Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Dyer
shall be responsible for billing the shippers, transporters, owners of
automobiles and other vehicles, and including owners (or tenants) of fixed
facilities within the Town of Dyer, which cause or suffer the leak or spill,
within a reasonable time after the Dyer Volunteer Fire Department's or Town
employees' initial response to the said leak or spill. Payment received shall
be duly appropriated and deposited to the General Fund. (Ord. No. 88-6, § 4, 2-
9-88)
Sec. 6-164 Penalty for Non-Payment.
Shippers, transporters, owners of automobiles and other vehicles, and including
owners (or tenants) of fixed facilities within the Town of Dyer, who cause or
suffer leaks or spills of potentially hazardous or toxic materials within the
Town of Dyer, and who fail to reimburse the Town within thirty (30) days after
receipt of said billing, shall be deemed to have violated this ordinance, and
shall suffer a penalty in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), in addition to the determined reimbursement, as provided herein.
(Ord. No. 88-6, § 5, 2-9-88)
Sec. 6-165 through Sec. 6-169 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 16. SMOKING IN PUBLIC AREAS.
Sec. 6-170 Town Hall Smoking Regulations.
   (a)   That smoking shall be prohibited in the Dyer Town Hall, located at One
Town Square, in the Town of Dyer. In addition, smoking shall be prohibited in
all Town of Dyer buildings including, but not limited to, all buildings that
comprise the Town’s Department of Public Works, Department of Wastewater
Treatment, Police Department, Volunteer Fire Department and Parks Department.
   (b)   For the purposes of this ordinance, "smoking" means the carrying or
holding of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, or any other lighted smoking
equipment, or the inhalation or exhalation of smoke from any lighted smoking
equipment. (Ord. 2000-17, 6-20-00; Am. Ord. No. 2004-14, § 1, 5-19-04)
Sec. 6-171 Penalty.
Each violation of Sec. 6-170 is punishable by a fine of twenty-five dollars
($25.00) against the person responsible for the violation, payable to the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, as the Clerk of the Town Ordinance Violations Bureau. Each
instance of prohibited smoking shall be considered a separate violation of this
ordinance. (Ord. 2000-17, 6-20-00; Am. Ord. No. 2004-14, § 1, 5-19-04)
Sec. 6-172 through 6-175 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 17. TREES AND FLORA.
Sec. 6-180 Title.
This Article shall be known as the Town of Dyer Tree and Flora Ordinance. (Ord.
No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-181 Purpose and Intent.
   (a)   This Article establishes policies, regulations, and standards
necessary to ensure that the Town will continue to realize the benefits
provided by trees, plants, shrubs and flora located on public property and
affecting public property.
   (b)   The provisions of this Article are enacted to regulate the planting,
maintenance, protection and removal of trees, shrubs, plants and flora located
on or affecting public property. It also provides for the issuing of permits
for the planting, maintenance, protection and removal of trees, shrubs, plants
and flora on public property. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-182 Definitions.
For the purpose of this Article the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   "Consulting Arborist" shall mean an individual who is trained and certified
by the International Society of Arboriculture, in the art and science of
planting, caring for and maintaining individual trees, forests, plants, shrubs
and flora.
   "Flora" shall mean any and all trees, shrubbery and other plants, which grow
to a height of greater than twelve (12) inches, but excludes weeds.
   "Owner(s)" shall mean any one or more of the following: The fee simple title
holder of a parcel of real estate, including the life estate as reflected on
the Lake County Assessor's records. It shall also include the purchaser(s) of
such real estate under any contract for the conditional sale thereof, whether
or not such contract is recorded.
   "Plants" shall mean all trees, shrubbery and other plants that grow to a
height of greater than twelve (12) inches, but excludes weeds.
   "Shrubs" shall mean any woody, perennial plant with multiple stems that
grows to a height of less than ten (10) feet. This shall include ornamental
grasses.
   "Topping" shall mean the cutting back of tree branches to stubs or lateral
branches that are not large enough to assume the terminal role. This shall also
include "heading," "tipping," "hat-racking," and "rounding over", which are
other terms meaning "Topping."
   "Tree" shall mean any woody, perennial plant and includes those having a
single stem or multiple stems that grows to a height of over ten (10) feet.
(Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-183 Jurisdiction.
The Town of Dyer shall have control of all trees, shrubs, plants, flora and
other plantings now or hereafter located on or affecting public property within
the corporate limits, and shall have the power to plant, maintain, remove, and
replace such trees, shrubs, plants, flora and other plantings. (Ord. No. 2007-
04, 3-21-07)c
Sec. 6-184 Tree Program Supervisor.
The Director of Public Works is hereby designated as the Tree Program
Supervisor. The Tree Program Supervisor shall supervise the management of the
natural resources within the Town by enforcement of this Article and evaluation
of the overall Tree Management Program. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-185 Appeals.
Any action or decision of the Tree Program Supervisor may be appealed to and
heard by the Town Manager. An appeal shall be filed within ten (10) days after
the action or decision of the Tree Program Supervisor. The appeal shall be in
writing and shall be filed with the Clerk/Treasurer. The appeal must be in
writing and state the reasons for the appeal. The Town Manager shall have
thirty (30) days to act on the appeal and his decision shall be in writing. He
may conduct hearings as he feels are necessary. The decision of the Town
Manager shall be final. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-186 Enforcement.
The Tree Program Supervisor and the Town Manager are hereby charged with the
responsibility for the enforcement of this Article and may serve notice to any
person in violation thereof or institute legal proceedings as may be required,
and the Town Legal Counsel is hereby authorized to institute appropriate
proceedings to that end. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-187 Performance Evaluation of Article.
The Tree Program Supervisor shall collect and maintain all records and data
necessary to objectively evaluate the progress being made toward the stated
goals of this Article. An annual written summary and analysis of the
evaluation, and recommendations for action shall be prepared at the direction
of the Tree Program Supervisor and the consulting arborist and presented to the
Town Manager. The Town Manager shall consider the report and recommendations
and take all actions deemed necessary to accomplish the goals of this Article.
These actions may include, but are not limited to recommending revision or
amendment of this Article or the adoption of other resolutions or ordinances.
(Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-188 Severability.
Should any part or provision of this Article be declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of
the Article as a whole or any part thereof other than the part held to be
invalid. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-189 Local Government Disclaimer of Liability.
Nothing contained in this Article shall be deemed to create a duly or impose a
liability on the Town, or its officers and employees, to plant, keep, or remove
any tree, shrub, plant or flora located on public property or located on
private property affecting public property, nor to relieve the owner of any
private property from the duty to keep any tree, shrub or plant on his property
or under his control in such condition and to prevent it from constituting a
hazard or an impediment to travel or vision upon any street, park, pleasure
ground, boulevard, alley or public place within the town. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-
21-07)
Sec. 6-190 Responsibility of Property Owners.
It shall be the duty and responsibility of every person owning or occupying any
real property within the Town of Dyer, to keep all trees, shrubs, flora and
plants on that property trimmed in such a manner that there is a clearance of
at least fourteen (14) feet above any street or alley, and a clearance of at
least seven (7) feet over any sidewalk. It shall also be the duty and
responsibility of every person owning or occupying any real property within the
Town of Dyer to keep all trees on that property trimmed in such a manner that
they do not obstruct the view of any traffic sign or device for vehicle traffic
in the direction controlled by that traffic sign or device. (Ord. No. 2007-04,
3-21-07)
Sec. 6-191 Penalties for Tree Removal and Damage Violations.
Any person who fails to comply with, or assists in the violation of, any of the
provisions of this Article, or any order, permit, or notice issued pursuant
hereto, shall be fined not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
such violation and shall pay in addition the cost of replacement as provided in
this Article. Each day any such violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense, and each tree removed or damaged shall also constitute a separate
offense. Any person who causes a tree to be removed or damaged in violation of
this Article, or any order, permit, or notice issued pursuant thereto, shall
repair or replace any such tree at the violator's sole cost and expense
pursuant to the tree replacement requirements set forth in this Article. The
cost of replacement shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each DBH inch of
the removed or damaged tree. If the precise DBH cannot be determined, the cost
of replacement shall be determined by the Tree Program Supervisor based on the
consulting arborist's estimate of the DBH of the removed or damaged tree. The
person found responsible for the violation shall pay the replacement cost of
the tree to the Town. The location, species, and planting specification for
replacement trees shall be approved prior to replanting by the Tree Program
Supervisor pursuant to the requirements of this Article. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-
21-07)
Sec. 6-192 Penalty for Planting, Arboricultural Work or Encroachment
Violations. 
If the Tree Program Supervisor determines that a violation exists regarding
planting, maintenance or encroachment of trees, flora, plants or shrubs upon
public property, the following procedures shall be implemented:
   (a)   A preliminary notice shall be given to the owner and/or occupant of
such property, either verbally or by posting a written notice on the property.
The notice shall state the nature of the alleged violation, corrective action
necessary and a date, not less than two (2) weeks in the future, when the
property will be re-inspected to determine if compliance has been effected.
After re-inspection, if it is determined that the violation has been corrected,
the owner or occupant shall not be liable for any charges by reason of the
preliminary notice procedure.
   (b)   If any violation is not corrected as a result of the preliminary
notice, the Tree Program Supervisor shall give to the owner and occupant of
such real estate written notice of the violation. Such notice shall be given by
Certified Mail, stating the nature of the violation, describe the real estate
upon which the condition exists and demand abatement of the condition and set a
date for completion of the abatement action, not less than two (2) weeks after
the date of such notice. The property shall then be re-inspected to determine
if abatement has been effected. If the Certified Mail is returned or if the
address of the owner is unknown and cannot be ascertained after due diligence,
it shall be sufficient to give notice by publication one time pursuant to
statute. The owner(s) notified by publication shall have ten (10) days from the
date of the published notice in which to abate the offending condition. (Ord.
No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-193 Topping Prohibited.
The practice of topping and/or other especially destructive maintenance
practices such as severely trimming trees in public streets is strictly
prohibited. "Severely trimmed" shall mean the cutting of the branches and/or
trunk of a tree in a manner which will substantially reduce the overall size of
the tree area so as to destroy the existing symmetrical appearance or natural
shape of the tree in a manner which results in the removal of main lateral
branches leaving the trunk of the tree in a stub appearances. The standards
identified in the ANSI A300 standards describe trimming methods, which will
give maximum benefits to both trees and people and are incorporated herein by
reference. These specifications and methods shall be made available from the
Tree Program Supervisor. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-194 Action on Failure to Abate.
Upon failure of an owner or occupant to abate the violation after notice
pursuant to Sec.
6-192, the Tree Program Supervisor shall cause the violation to be abated, and
shall be allowed to enter upon such private property or public property and
proceed with corrective action. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-195 Procedural and Labor Charges.
For services rendered in the enforcement of this Article, the owners(s) of the
real estate shall pay to the Town of Dyer the following fees and charges:
   (a)   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for each inspection to determine compliance.
   (b)   Twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for property ownership determination.
   (c)   All costs for publication of notice.
   (d)   Twenty dollars ($20.00) for services performed in perfecting a lien.
   (e)   Ten dollars ($10.00) for Certified Mail preparation and sending.
   (f)   Forty ($40.00) per man-hour plus equipment charges, as determined by
the Tree Program Supervisor, for services rendered in abatement of a violation.
(Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-196 Resolution of Conflicts Between Trees and Structures.
Where sidewalk or curb damage due to tree roots occurs, every effort shall be
made to correct the problem without removing or damaging the tree. The Tree
Program Supervisor, in conjunction with the consulting arborist, shall be
responsible for developing or approving corrective measures. Corrective action
may include alteration of sidewalk and/or curb construction. (Ord. No. 2007-04,
3-21-07)
Sec. 6-197 Situations Which are Declared to be a Public Nuisance.
Any tree, shrub, groundcover, flora or plant growing or standing on private
property in such a manner that any portion thereof interferes with any public
street, sidewalk, alley or restricts the flow of traffic or visibility of such
street, sidewalk, alley or intersection thereof to any person or persons
lawfully using such streets, sidewalks, alleys or intersections shall
constitute a public nuisance. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-198 Destruction of Diseased or Hazardous Trees and Plants.
The Town of Dyer shall have the exclusive authority to destroy any plants,
trees, shrubs or flora in or on public streets, alleys, ways, places and parks
if infected by disease or injurious insects, or if in the judgment of the Tree
Program Supervisor, such represents a dangerous condition or hazard to the
public. The destruction may also occur when necessary for the protection of
other flora or in any other cause when the public safety, health or welfare is
or may be adversely affected. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-199 Abatement of Hazards and Public Nuisances.
The Town of Dyer may remove or trim any tree, plant, shrub, or flora, or may
permit any public utility to do so, or may require the property owner to remove
or trim such tree, plant, shrub or flora on private property abutting or
affecting public property. The failure of the property owner, or his duly
authorized agent, to remove such tree, plant, shrub or flora or perform
specified maintenance on the tree, after fifteen (15) days notice by the Tree
Program Supervisor, shall be deemed a violation of the provisions of this
Article, and the Tree Program Supervisor may then remove or trim such tree and
assess the cost thereof against the property. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-200 Cleanup of Trimmings.
All private tree care firms shall be responsible for cleanup of trimmings
within seven (7) days of performing work. All private tree care firms working
for residents and all commercial or nonresidential businesses must dispose of
trimmings at their expense. Any tree care work completed by a resident on his
property may leave the trimmings on the public parkway and contact the
Department of Public Works to arrange for pickup. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-201 Permit Required for Any Planting Within Town Right-of-Way.
No person shall plant any tree, plant, shrub or flora on public property except
according to policies, regulations and specifications established pursuant to
this section.
   (a)   All trees, plants, shrubs or flora material planted on or in the
public street, sidewalk area, alley or parks require the approval of the Tree
Program Supervisor and the consulting arborist and require a special permit for
such planting granted by the Tree Program Supervisor.
   (b)   Trees, plants, shrubs and flora shall be located and planted as
directed by the Tree Program Supervisor or his designee, who shall supervise
such planting and location. In the performance of such work, consideration
shall be given to setbacks and safety. No tree shall be planted in any public
street, alley, place or park in the Town of Dyer less than thirty (30) feet
away from any other tree planted in the same area or at a distance of less than
three (3) feet from any established sidewalk or curb bordering any public
right-of-way, except by written permission by the Tree Program Supervisor.
   (c)   The Tree Program Supervisor shall have the authority to create further
specifications as required and may alter methods of planting, reject any tree
or tree species, or suspend the right of a permit holder to plant, for any
reason and without advance notice.
   (d)   Trees that are removed shall be replaced by a new planting, except
where impractical due to construction or space.
   (e)   Plant material selected may vary, depending on location; however, it
must be of high quality and of suitable species, and not of the prohibited
species as determined by the Tree Program Supervisor. All plant materials must
conform to the specifications set forth by the American Association of
Nurserymen Plant Standards.
   (f)   Planting procedures shall comply with ANSI MOO standards for the
installation of nursery stock. Suitable maintenance plans and procedures must
be submitted prior to installation and shall be subject to the approval of the
Tree Program Supervisor and the consulting arborist.
   (g)   Permit holders shall guarantee survival of each tree for a minimum of
one (1) year after planting date. Any tree not surviving the minimum shall be
replaced either by the permit holder or the Town at the permit holder's
expense. After a period of one (1) year, all plant materials shall become
property of the Town and becomes the responsibility of the Town.
   (h)   The coordination of tree planting on public ways with landscaping on
private property so as to achieve the above purposes is deemed desirable.
   (i)   Trees may not be planted in parkways that are less than five (5) feet
between curb and sidewalk. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-202 Landscape Structures Prohibited.
No landscaping structures may be constructed within the public rights-of-way
that will hinder or endanger the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic. A
prior approval of the Tree Program Supervisor is required prior to any type of
structure being constructed within a public right-of-way. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-
21-07)
Sec. 6-203 Harming Public Trees Forbidden.
It shall be a violation of the provisions of this Article for any person to
abuse, destroy or mutilate any tree, plant or shrub in the right-of -way or any
other public place, or to attach or place any rope, wire (other than one used
to support a young or broken tree), chain, sign, poster, handbill or other
things to or on any tree growing in a public place, or to cause or permit any
wire charged with electricity to be placed or attached to any such tree, or
allow any gaseous, liquid or solid substance which is harmful to such trees to
come in contact with their roots, trunks, or leaves. No person shall perform
any arboricultural work on any plant material on Town property unless first
granted a special permit indicating the approved activity on each designated
plant. All work on Town trees including pruning, protecting, bracing,
relocating, cultivating, spraying or removing will be allowed only as permitted
by the Tree Program Supervisor. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-204 Licensing of Private Tree Care Firms.
It is unlawful for any person or business to perform tree pruning and/or repair
work on public trees for hire within the Town of Dyer without a valid tree care
license approved by the Tree Program Supervisor and issued by the Building
Department.
   (a)   Each tree pruned or otherwise modified in violation of this provision
shall constitute a separate offense. The first such offense is punishable by a
fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00); each subsequent offense is
punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1000.00). A single
person or business establishes no maximum fine for multiple violations.
   (b)   The Tree Program Supervisor is authorized to issue tree care licenses
to persons or businesses that meet the following minimum requirements: The
person or at least one (1) person on the staff of a business must be designated
as a qualified arborist by the Town. To be designated as a qualified arborist,
a tree service employee shall demonstrate knowledge of proper arboricultural
techniques by providing documentation of professional certification, education,
and/or experience acceptable to the Town Arborist.
   (c)   The licensee must carry a current certificate of insurance and be
bonded for such work.
   (d)   The licensee must sign an affidavit to certify that all tree work will
be performed under the direct supervision of the qualified arborist and will
comply with all Town standards and ordinances.
   (e)   The Tree Program Supervisor is authorized to suspend or revoke the
tree care license of any person or business that performs work which does not
comply with tree care standards as specified in ANSI A300, in this Article and
in the Tree Management Plan. License suspensions and revocations may be
appealed to the Town Manager within ten (10) days of notification. The decision
of the Town Manager shall be final and is not subject to appeal.
   (f)   The Tree Program Supervisor, under the guidance of the consulting
arborist, may reissue any tree care business license previously revoked subject
to the above minimum requirements and any additional requirements as may be
prescribed by the consulting arborist and approved by the Town Council. (Ord.
No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-205 Conservation of Forest and Woodland Resources During Development.
   (a)   No person, business or corporation shall destroy or significantly
alter any forest or woodland through tree damage or removal, clearing, grading,
tilling, burning, application of chemicals, or any other means unless they
apply for a permit to do the same. No person, business or corporation shall be
granted a permit for subdivision, grading, building or the construction of any
improvement on wooded or forested lands unless they possess a valid permit.
   (b)   Any alteration of wooded or forested lands shall conform to the
conditions and specifications of the Town of Dyer Tree Management Program. All
such permits shall be issued by the Tree Program Supervisor after approval by
the Town's arborist. (Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-206 Prohibited Species List.
The following tree species shall not be used by anyone for planting along any
public street, alley, right-of- way or park. The Town shall not place, nor
permit to be placed, any tree or shrub, which will cause or tend to cause a
hazardous or unsafe condition either for motorists or pedestrians.
Acer negundo        Box Elder
Acer sacharrinum    Silver Maple
Ailanthus altissima Tree of Heaven
Betula papyrifera   Paper Birch
Betula pendula      European White Birch
Catalpa bignoides   Southern Catalpa
Morus species       Mulberry
Populus nigra       Lombardy Poplar
Populus deltoides   Cottonwood
Salix species       Willows, all
Ulmus species       Elms, all
Robinia             Black Locust
 
Gingko species   Gingko. except seedless
Juglans nigra    Black Walnut
Pyrus calleryana Bradford Pear
"Bradford"
Albiriaspp       Mimosa
Betula           White Birch
Elaeagnus        Russian Olive
Madura           Osage Orange
Malus spp.       Common apple
 
(Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-21-07)
Sec. 6-207 through Sec. 6-210 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 18. REGULATING STORAGE CONTAINERS.
Sec. 6-211 Definitions.
For the purpose of this Article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Outdoor Storage Container. Any rigid, hollow, weather-resistant three-
dimensional object not fixed to the ground with a minimum volume of nine (9)
cubic yards. (Ord. No. 2018-3, 4-26-18; Am. Ord. No. 2022-12, § 1, 7-20-22)
Sec. 6-212 Restrictions.
   (a)   No more than one (1) outdoor storage container may be kept on any
parcel of property in Dyer for more than fourteen (14) consecutive days at a
time and for more than thirty (30) non- consecutive days per year.
   (b)   No outdoor storage container may exceed fifty (50) cubic yards in
volume.
   (c)   All outdoor storage containers must either: (1) not be kept in an area
visible from a public street; or (2) if in an area visible from a public
street, be completely shielded from view by an opaque barrier of either foliage
or a wall that substantially matches the nearest street-facing exterior surface
of the nearest building.
(Ord. No. 2018-3, 4-26-18; Am. Ord. No. 2022-12, §§ 2 - 4, 7-20-22)
Sec. 6-213 Penalty.
Each violation of this Article is subject to a one hundred dollar ($100.00)
fine per day per container. (Ord. No. 2018-3, 4-26-18; Am. Ord. No. 2022-12, §
5, 7-20-22)
Sec. 6-214 Exemptions.
The following owners and occupants of property are exempt from the requirements
of this Article:
   (a)   Those regularly engaged in the business of selling, renting, or
transporting outdoor storage containers;
   (b)   Any organized non-profit corporation or religious institution;
   (c)   Anyone who, upon written petition to the Town Council and a showing
that compliance will present financial hardship, receives a waiver of the
requirements of this Article by the Town Council.
All exempt owners or occupants must obtain a certificate of exemption from the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer upon completion of an application and providing
proof of fulfillment of the criteria for exemption under this Section.
This Article becomes effective immediately, but property occupants currently in
violation of this Article have until December 31, 2022, to bring the property
they occupy into compliance with its provision. (Ord. No. 2022-12, § 6, 7-20-
22)
Sec. 6-215 through Sec. 6-220 Reserved for Future Use.
CHAPTER 7
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1. NUMERICAL DISPLAY OF ADDRESS.
Sec. 7-1   Duty to Have Address Displayed.
Sec. 7-2   Penalties.
Sec. 7-3   Effective Date.
Sec. 7-4 and Sec. 7-5 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES FOR DRAINAGE AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
(DYER DRAINAGE CONTROL ORDINANCE).
Sec. 7-6   Land Alterations to be Accomplished in Accordance with Drainage
Requirement.
Sec. 7-7   Definitions.
Sec. 7-8   Drainage Permits Required; Exceptions; When to be Obtained
Sec. 7-9   Eligibility to Obtain Permit.
Sec. 7-10   Application; Issuance.
Sec. 7-11   Professionally Prepared and Certified Drainage Plans.
Sec. 7-12   When Professionally Prepared and Certified Drainage Plan Are Not
Required.
Sec. 7-13   Duration of Permit.
Sec. 7-14   Deviation From the Approved Plan.
Sec. 7-15   Determination of Impacted Drainage Areas.
Sec. 7-16   Posting of Bond.
Sec. 7-17   Dedication of Easement.
Sec. 7-18   Certification of Completion and Compliance.
Sec. 7-19   General Authority for Investigations and Inspections.
Sec. 7-20   Fees for Permits Obtained After Commencement of Work.
Sec. 7-21   Revocation of Permits.
Sec. 7-22   Stop-Work Order.
Sec. 7-23   General Penalty.
Sec. 7-24   Variance Procedure.
Sec. 7-25   Application Fee.
Sec. 7-26   Exemption for Certain Governmental Units.
Sec. 7-27   Drainage to Adequate Receiving Place.
Sec. 7-28   Characteristics of Drainage Facility.
Sec. 7-29   Accommodation of Runoff Within Parcel.
Sec. 7-30   Accommodation of Runoff Downstream From Parcel.
Sec. 7-31   Acceptance of Upstream Drainage.
Sec. 7-32   Habitable Structures to be Free From 100-Year Floods.
Sec. 7-33   Drainage Away From Structures.
Sec. 7-34   Damage to Adjoining Property.
Sec. 7-35   Maximum Slope.
Sec. 7-36   Permanency of Grades.
Sec. 7-37   Subsurface Drainage.
Sec. 7-38   Blocking Drainageways.
Sec. 7-39   Exposed Areas to be Protected; Potential Erosion.
Sec. 7-40   Protection During Development.
Sec. 7-41   Permanent Vegetation: Structural Methods.
Sec. 7-42   Sediment Control.
Sec. 7-43   Additional Powers.
Sec. 7-44 Through Sec. 7-49 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. BUILDING CODE.
Division I. Background Provisions.
Sec. 7-50   Title.
Sec. 7-51   Purpose.
Sec. 7-52   Authority of the Building Commissioner.
Sec. 7-53   Scope.
Sec. 7-54   Adoption of Rules by Reference.
Sec. 7-55   Application for Permits.
Sec. 7-56   Permit Required.
Sec. 7-57   Other Ordinances.
Sec. 7-58   Additional Requirements to Obtain a Building Permit.
Sec. 7-59 Reserved for Future Use.
Division II. Fees and Exemptions.
Sec. 7-60   Building and Moving Fees.
Sec. 7-61   Wrecking and Other Building Permits.
Sec. 7-62   Driveway Permits.
Sec. 7-63   Sign Permits.
Sec. 7-64   Plumbing, Housing, Drainage and Sewer Work.
Sec. 7-65   Electrical Installation.
Sec. 7-66   Payment Fees.
Sec. 7-67   Reinspection Fees.
Sec. 7-68   Swimming Pools.
Sec. 7-69   Water.
Sec. 7-70   Exemptions.
Sec. 7-71   Occupancy Escrow Fee.
Sec. 7-72 Through Sec. 7-74 Reserved for Future Use.
Division III. Permit Procedures and Related Regulations.
Sec. 7-75   Review of Application.
Sec. 7-76   Inspection and Reinspection Procedures.
Sec. 7-77   Inspection Assistance.
Sec. 7-78   Entry.
Sec. 7-79   Stop Order.
Sec. 7-80   Certification of Occupancy.
Sec. 7-81   Workmanship.
Sec. 7-82   Violations.
Sec. 7-83   Right of Appeal.
Sec. 7-84   Remedies.
Sec. 7-85   Penalties.
Sec. 7-86 Through Sec. 7-89 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IV. Enforcement of Building Standards Procedures.
Sec. 7-90   State law Adopted by Reference.
Sec. 7-91   Role of Building Commissioner.
Sec. 7-92   Hearing Authority.
Sec. 7-93   Substantial Property Interest.
Sec. 7-94 Through Sec. 7-97 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING REGULATIONS.
Sec. 7-98   Registration of Contractors and Subcontractors and Penalties.
Sec. 7-99   Restricting the Size of Residential Water Closets.
Sec. 7-100 Through Sec. 7-118 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 5. EXCAVATIONS.
Sec.
7-200   Purpose and Policy.
Sec.
7-201   General Provisions.
Sec.
7-202   Open Cutting.
Sec.
7-203   Indemnification.
Sec.
7-204   Bonds.
Sec.
7-205   Permits and Bonds Required.
Sec.
7-206   Doubled Application Fee.
Sec.
7-207   Unacceptable Contractors.
Sec.
7-208   Underground Utility Hits.
Sec.
7-209   Excavation Standards.
Sec.
7-210   Penalties.
Sec.
7-211   Right-of-Way Permit Fees.
ARTICLE I. NUMERICAL DISPLAY OF ADDRESSES.
Sec. 7-1 Duty To Have Address Displayed.
It shall be the duty of the owner and the occupant of every building having a
properly designated Street address in the Town of Dyer to have placed thereon,
in a place visible from the street, numerical figures at least four inches (4")
high and two inches (2") wide in areas zoned residential and at least eight
inches (8") high and three inches (3") wide in areas zoned commercial or
industrial, showing the numerical street address of the building. (Ord. No. 92-
26, § 1, 9-8-92)
Sec. 7-2 Penalties.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this Article shall be fined not
less than Fifty Dollars ($50.00) payable through the Ordinance Violations
Bureau, for the first violation and in a sum not to exceed Two Thousand Five
Hundred ($2,500.00) Dollars thereafter. Each day that any person shall violate
any of the provisions or sections of this Article shall be deemed to commit a
separate offense. (Ord. No. 92-26, § 2, 9-8-92)
Sec. 7-3 Effective Date.
This Article shall take effect July 1, 1993. (Ord. No. 92-26, § 3, 9-8-92)
Sec. 7-4 and Sec. 7-5 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES FOR DRAINAGE
AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
(DYER DRAINAGE CONTROL ORDINANCE)
Sec. 7-6 Land Alterations To Be Accomplished In Accordance With Drainage
Requirement.
Any land alteration must be accomplished in conformity with drainage
requirements. Where any apparent conflict exists between drainage requirements
of this ordinance and similar requirements of any state or federal agency which
has jurisdiction of the work involved, the most stringent requirements shall be
applicable. Except for the foregoing, compliance with any other applicable
provision of law, ordinance or regulation shall not excuse noncompliance with
this Article. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 1, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-7 Definitions.
   (a)   “Board” shall mean the Storm Water Management Board of the Town of
Dyer, Indiana.
   (b)   “Drainage Facilities” as used herein, shall mean all ditches,
channels, conduits, retention-detention systems, tiles, swales, sewers, and
other natural or artificial means of draining storm water from land.
   (c)   “Drainage Requirements” as used herein, shall mean:
      (1)   Minimum drainage standards stated in this Article.
      (2)   Regulations promulgated by the Board.
      (3)   Obligations and requirements relating to drainage established under
the Subdivision Control Ordinance (see
Chapter 10 of this Code) or other Town drainage specifications.
      (4)   Requirements stated under the Flood Hazard Ordinance. (see
Chapter 10 of this Code)
      (5)   Commitments relating to drainage made pursuant to agreement.
      (6)   Conditions relating to drainage attached to a grant of a variance
by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (d)   “Impacted Drainage Areas” as used herein, shall be those areas defined
and identified by the Board, which are unlikely to be easily drained because of
one or more actors such as topography, soil type or distance from adequate
drainage facilities.
   (e)   “Land Alteration” is used herein, shall mean any action taken relative
to land which, either on a temporary or permanent basis:
      (1)   Changes the contour; or
      (2)   Increases or decreases the runoff rate; or
      (3)   Changes the elevation; or
      (4)   Decreases the rate at which water is absorbed; or
      (5)   Changes the drainage pattern; or
      (6)   Creates or changes a drainage facility; or
      (7)   Involves construction, enlargement or location of any building on a
permanent foundation; or
      (8)   Creates an impoundment.
Land alteration includes (by way of example and not of limitation) terracing,
grading, excavating, building construction, earthwork, draining, installing
drainage tile, filling and paving.
   (f)   “Maintenance” as used herein, shall mean cleaning out of, spraying,
removing obstructions from and making minor repairs in a drainage facility so
that it will perform the function for which it was designed and constructed.
   (e)   “Short Title”: This Article may be referred to as the Dyer Drainage
Control Ordinance. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 2, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-8 Drainage Permits Required; Exceptions; When To Be Obtained.
   (a)   No person, partnership, or corporation shall undertake or accomplish
any land alteration without having in force a written drainage permit obtained
from the Board; provided, however, that a drainage permit shall not be required
for:
      (1)   Excavation of cemetery graves;
      (2)   Refuse disposal sites where storm drainage is controlled by other
regulations;
      (3)   Excavation for wells, excavation and backfills for poles, conduits
and wires of utility companies;
      (4)   Exploratory excavation or soil testing under the direction and
control of professional engineers, soil engineers, geologists, civil engineers,
architects or land surveyors, which are backfilled to the original contours;
      (5)   Ordinary cultivation of agricultural land including tilling,
terracing, construction of minor open ditches and crop irrigation;
      (6)   The planting and tilling of gardens, flower beds, shrubs, trees and
other common uses and minor landscaping of land appurtenant to residences; so
long as same does not negatively impact adjacent properties or obstruct any
dedicated easements.
      (7)   Fill and grading of former basement site after the demolition of a
structure, to conform to adjacent terrain;
      (8)   Fill of small holes caused by erosion, settling of earth or the
removal of such materials as dead trees, posts or concrete;
      (9)   A fill less than one (1) foot in depth, and placed on natural
terrain with a slope flatter than ten (10%) percent, not intended to support
structures, which does not exceed fifty (50) cubic yards per acre and does not
obstruct drainage;
      (10)   Maintenance of drainage facilities;
      (11)   Construction of a driveway, when a proper permit which includes
culvert requirements has been obtained;
      (12)   Installation of building sanitary sewers and water service lines,
when a proper permit has been obtained for the installation of that service.
   (b)   The drainage permit must be obtained before any work is initiated with
the exception of testing to determine procedures or materials. (Ord. No. 92-4,
§ 3, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-9 Eligibility To Obtain Permit.
In order to obtain a drainage permit a person, partnership or corporation must
be the person, partnership or corporation that will be responsible for
accomplishing the land alteration for which the drainage permit was issued.
(Ord. No. 92-4, § 4, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-10 Application; Issuance.
   (a)   Application for a drainage permit shall be made to the Board. The
application shall be in writing on a form prescribed by the Board.
   (b)   A drainage permit shall be issued if;
      (1)   The person, partnership or corporation is eligible to apply for and
obtain a drainage permit;
      (2)   The application required by this section and supporting information
required by other sections or regulations have been properly prepared and
submitted;
      (3)   The drainage plan, together with supplemental information required
by other sections or regulations reflect compliance with drainage requirements;
      (4)   A certification of “sufficiency of plan” and a certificate of
“obligation to observe” have been filed by a registered professional engineer,
land surveyor or architect, engaged in still drainage design;
      (5)   If required by the Board, a bond has been posted pursuant to this
Article;
      (6)   If required by the Board, an easement has been dedicated pursuant
to this Article: and
      (7)   The applicable fee has been paid. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 5, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-11 Professionally Prepared And Certified Drainage Plans.
A drainage plan fulfilling the requirements of this Article and Board
regulations shall be submitted to the Board for approval before a drainage
permit can be obtained to accomplish a land alteration, unless the land
alteration is such that a drainage permit can be obtained in accordance with
Section
7-12. The drainage plan must be submitted in triplicate, and shall indicate in
a precise way the work to be accomplished pursuant to the drainage permit. One
(1) copy of the drainage plan will remain on file with the Board. The following
information must be submitted for approval:
   (a)   Construction Features. The drainage plan shall demonstrate and
describe surface and subsurface drainage and include the following:
      Scale; Arrow; Contours and USGS Bench Marks: The drainage plan shall be
drawn to scale, preferably one (1") inch per fifty (50') feet, and an arrow
indicating North shall appear on each page. Existing land contours shall be
shown, with one-foot (1') contours for land with a slope flatter than ten (10%)
percent, two (2') foot contours for slopes equal to or greater than ten percent
(10%) but flatter than twenty percent (20%), and five-foot (5') contours for
slopes equal to or greater than twenty percent (20%). A bench mark, which is
easily accessible pavement or shoulder, the existing ground over the storm
drain with proposed grading shall be shown with the centerline grade of the
road. If the storm drain is to be constructed on fill, the profile of the
undisturbed earth, at drain location, shall be shown.
   (b)   Design Calculations. Design calculations are required as part of the
drainage plan and shall specifically include:
      (1)   Estimation of Storm Water Runoff:
         (a)   Drainage area map (scale one (1") inch equals one hundred (100')
feet indicating contours at two-foot intervals and limits of 100-year
floodplain, where applicable;
         (b)   Weighted runoff coefficient computations;
         (c)   Time of concentration computation indicating overland flow time
and flow time in the swale, gutter, pipe or channel. All drainage facilities
shall be designed in conformity with drainage and design standards and
regulations as enacted and as may be amended from time to time by the Board.
      (2)   Closed Conduit And Open Channel Design Computations:
         (a)   Size of pipe or channel cross section;
         (b)   Pipe or channel invert's slope in percent;
         (c)   Roughness coefficient;
         (d)   Flow velocities in feet per second;
         (e)   Design capacity in cubic feet per second;
      (3)   Head Loss Computations In Manholes And Junction Chambers:
      (4)   Hydraulic Gradient Computations, wherever applicable;
      (5)   Erosion Control Methods. All design calculations shall conform with
the drainage and design standards and regulations as enacted and as may be
amended from time to time by the Board.
   (c)   Additional Information. The Board shall be empowered to require such
additional information to be included in a drainage plan that is necessary to
evaluate and determine the adequacy of the proposed drainage facility.
   (d)   Certification Required. All drainage plans submitted under this
section to the Board for approval must be certified by a registered
professional engineer, land surveyor or architect engaged in storm drainage
design under whose supervision the plans were prepared. The certificate shall
be in the following form:
   CERTIFICATE OF SUFFICIENCY OF PLAN
   Permit Number          
Location where land alteration is occurring   
Plan Date             
I hereby certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief:
   (1)   The drainage plan for this project is in compliance with the drainage
requirements of the Town of Dyer pertaining to this class of work.
   (2)   The calculations, designs, reproducible drawings, masters and original
ideas reproduced in this drainage plan are under my dominion and control and
they were prepared by me and my employees.
Signature                              Date   
Type or Printed Name                     Phone   
(SEAL)
Business Address   
Surv.            Eng.               Arch.   
Indiana Registration No.   
   (3)   Obligation To Observe. All drainage plans submitted under this section
to the Board must include a certificate of obligation to observe by a
registered professional engineer, land surveyor or architect engaged in storm
drainage design. The certificate shall be in the following form:
   CERTIFICATE OF OBLIGATION TO OBSERVE
   Permit Number           
Location where land alteration is occurring   
Plan Date            
   I will perform periodic observations of this project during construction to
determine that such land alteration is in accordance with both the applicable
drainage requirements and the drainage plan for this project submitted for a
drainage permit to the Storm Water
   Management Board.
Signature                           Date   
Type or Printed Name                  Phone   
               (SEAL)
Business Address   
Surv.               Eng.            Arch.   
Indiana Registration No.   
(Ord. No. 92-4, § 6, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-12 When Professionally Prepared And Certified Drainage Plan Are Not
Required.
   (a)   A drainage plan that does not contain as much information as drainage
plans prepared to fulfill the requirements of Section 6 and that is not
prepared or certified by a registered professional engineer, land surveyor or
architect engaged in storm drainage design, may be submitted when:
      (1)   No part of the parcel or property for which the drainage permit is
requested is in an impacted drainage area; and
      (2)   The primary basis on which a drainage permit is required is the
construction, enlargement or location, on a permanent foundation, of a one-
family dwelling, two-family dwelling or accessory structure appurtenant to
either a one- or two-family dwelling.
   (b)   The drainage plan must be submitted in triplicate and shall indicate
the nature and location of all work to be accomplished pursuant to a drainage
permit. The drainage plan must be neat, accurate and readable. One (1) copy of
the drainage plan will remain on file with the Board. The following information
must be submitted for approval under this section:
      (1)   The legal description and location of the property;
      (2)   The dimensions and borders of the parcel;
      (3)   The name and address of the owner;
      (4)   An arrow indicating North;
      (5)   Location and measurements of all existing and proposed
improvements, structures and paved areas on the site;
      (6)   Existing and proposed grading showing positive drainage by
contouring or sufficient spot elevations;
      (7)   Location of all existing or proposed swales, ditches, culverts,
drainage channels, surface and subsurface drainage devised and the direction of
the flow.
The drainage plan shall include information necessary to demonstrate conformity
with all drainage requirements of this ordinance. The plat map shall illustrate
the surface drainage pattern of the site away from structures and the final
distribution of surface water off site, either preventing or planning for
surface ponding.
   (c)   Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, submission of a
drainage plan shall not be required as a precondition for obtaining a drainage
permit in the instance of a one- or two-family dwelling constructed in a
subdivision for which a plat has been approved in accordance with the Dyer
Subdivision Control Ordinance, (see
Chapter 10 of this Code) and for which a drainage plan meeting the requirements
of this Article has been approved and a permit issued, so long as the permit
applicant certifies that the land alteration shall be accomplished in
compliance with the specifications and information found on the approved plat
and on such drainage plan. Any deviations from the drainage provisions as
approved in the plat and drainage plan for the subject plot must be submitted
to the Board for approval and the Board may require the submission of plans or
other information relative to the deviation which may be required as a
precondition to approval. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 7, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-13 Duration of Permit.
If the land alteration for which a permit has been issued has not commenced
within one (1) year from the date of its issuance, the permit shall expire and
no longer be of any force or effect; provided, however, the Board, for good
cause, shown in writing, may extend the validity of the permit for an
additional period of time not to exceed one (1) year. If the drainage activity
is only partially completed and no substantial land alteration has occurred on
the site for a period of one (1) year, the permit shall expire and no longer be
of any force or effect; provided, however, the Board may, for good cause, shown
in writing, extend the validity of such permit to allow completion of the work.
(Ord. No. 92-4, § 8, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-14 Deviation From The Approved Plan.
Any significant deviation or change in the detailed plans and specifications
after granting of the drainage permit shall be filed in triplicate with and
approved by the Board prior to the time land alteration involving the change
occurs. A copy thereof, if approved, shall be attached to the original plans
and specification. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 9, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-15 Determination Of Impacted Drainage Areas.
   (a)   The Board is authorized, but is not required, to classify certain
geographical areas as impacted drainage areas and to enact and promulgate
regulations for land alteration in impacted drainage areas, in addition to
regulations which are applicable generally. Such classifications and
regulations may be later modified or rescinded by the Board.
   (b)   Action of the Board to classify or declassify any area as an impacted
drainage area, or to promulgate, repeal or modify any regulation in regard
thereto, shall be in compliance with the requirements of state statute,
regarding promulgation, repeal and modification of regulations generally.
   (c)   In determining impacted drainage areas, the Board shall consider such
factors as topography, soil type and distance from adequate drainage
facilities. The following areas shall be designated as impacted drainage areas,
unless good reason for not including them is presented to the Board:
      (1)   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the Dyer Zoning
Ordinance, the Dyer Flood Hazard Areas Ordinance, and the Federal Emergency
Management Authority (FEMA). In the case of any uncertainty, the more
restrictive designation shall apply.
      (2)   Land within seventy-five (75) feet of the centerline of any drain.
      (3)   Land within fifty (50) feet of the centerline of a natural
drainageway, including a river, stream, gully, ditch or other definite natural
watercourse.
      (4)   Land where there is not an adequate outlet, taking into
consideration the capacity of depth of the outlet.
   (d)   A map identifying individual impacted drainage areas shall be retained
in the office of the Board, and shall be made conveniently available to members
of the public during regular business hours. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 10, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-16 Posting Of Bond.
   (a)   The Board may, as a prerequisite to the issuance of a drainage permit,
require the posting of a performance bond from a company licensed by the State
of Indiana to provide such surety, upon which the principal may be the owner of
the affected land, the developer, or any other party or parties the Board
believes necessary or helpful. Such bond shall name the Town of Dyer as the
party who can enforce the obligations thereunder, and shall be in an amount
established by the Board as adequate to provide surety for the satisfactory
completion of the improvements required by the drainage permit. In the instance
of platting, such bond may be a part of the total bonding required by the Dyer
Plan Commission.
   (b)   In instances where the Board has required a performance bond pursuant
to this section, it may, as an alternative to the posting of such bond, accept
other appropriate security, such as a properly conditioned irrevocable letter
of credit, which meets the same objectives as the performance bond described in
this section, subject to approval of any other department or agency whose
interest are protected by the same bonding requirement. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 11,
2-10-92)
Sec. 7-17 Dedication Of Easement.
The Board may, as a prerequisite to issuance of a drainage permit, require the
dedication of easements to the Town of Dyer and to owners of other affected
lands, by the owner of the parcel of land, relative to which application for a
drainage permit has been made, where such is necessary to achieve satisfactory
present and future drainage of the parcel and the area surrounding the parcel.
As a minimum, the following covenant shall he executed by the owner or owners
of such land which will be included in a recorded plat, or in the recorded
restrictions:
   “It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any lot or parcel of land
within the area of this plat to comply at all times with the provisions of the
drainage plan as approved for this plat by the Storm Water Management Board of
the Town of Dyer and the requirements of all drainage permits for this plat
issued by the Board.“ (Ord. No. 92-4, § 12, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-18 Certificate Of Completion And Compliance.
Within ten (10) days after completion of a land alteration for which a drainage
permit was required and relative to which a certified plan was required to be
filed pursuant to Section
7-11, a registered-professional engineer, land surveyor or architect, engaged
in storm drainage design, shall execute and file with the Board a certificate
of completion and compliance. Such certificate shall be in the following form:
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION AND COMPLIANCE
Location of premises on which land alteration was accomplished   
Inspection Date(s):                  Permit No.
Relative to plans prepared by:                   on    ,
I hereby certify that:
   (1)   I am familiar with drainage requirements applicable to such land
alteration; and
   (2)   I have personally observed the land alteration accomplished pursuant
to the above-referenced drainage permit; and
   (3)   To the best of my knowledge, information and belief such land
alteration has been performed and completed in conformity with all such
drainage requirements, except
Signature                           Date   
Type or Printed Name                     Phone   
(SEAL)
Business Address   
Surv.               Eng.               Arch.   
Indiana Registration No.   
Accepted by:   
         Authorized Town of Dyer Representative (Ord. No. 92-4, § 13, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-19 General Authority For Investigations And Inspections.
   (a)   The power to make investigations and inspections of land alterations
shall be vested in both the Board and its authorized representatives.
   (b)   Investigation and inspection of land alteration may be made at any
time by going upon, around or about the premises on which the land alteration
has occurred.
   (c)   Such investigation and inspection may be made either before, during or
after the land alteration is completed and it may be made for the purposes,
among others, of determining whether the land alteration meets drainage
requirements and ascertaining whether the land alteration has been accomplished
in a manner consistent with plans and specifications or a certificate filed
pursuant to this ordinance.
   (d)   Efforts to afford an opportunity for investigation and inspection of
the land alteration shall be made by persons working on or having control of
the land alteration, including making available a copy of plans and
specifications submitted to obtain a drainage permit. (Ord. No. 92-4 § 14, 2-
10-92)
Sec. 7-20 Fees For Permits Obtained After Commencement Of Work.
   (a)   If work for which a drainage permit is required by this ordinance is
commenced by the permit applicant without compliance with the provisions of
Section
7-8, the permit fee shall be double the applicable amount stated in Section
7-25, and if work for which a permit is required is completed by the permit
applicant without compliance with the provisions of Section
7-8, the permit fee shall be ten (10) times the applicable amount stated in
Section
7-25 plus the amount of the normal fee for the permit.
   (b)   This fee shall in no way limit the operation of penalties provided
elsewhere in this Article. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 15, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-21 Revocation Of Permits.
   (a)   The Board may revoke a drainage permit where the application, plans or
other supporting documents required by this Article reflect either;
      (1)   A false statement or misrepresentation as to material fact; or
      (2)   Lack of compliance with drainage requirements; or
      (3)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this Article. (Ord. No.
92-4, § 16, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-22 Stop-Work Order.
   (a)   Whenever a member of the Board, the Public Works Director, the
Building Commissioner, or that officer's authorized representative discovers
the existence of any of the circumstances listed below, such official is
empowered to issue an order requiring the suspension of the land alteration.
The stop-work order shall be in writing and shall state to what land alteration
it is applicable and the reason for its issuance. One (1) copy of the stop-work
order shall be posted on the property in a conspicuous place, one (1) copy
shall be delivered to the permit applicant, one (1) copy shall be delivered to
the person doing the land alteration, one (1) copy shall be delivered to the
owner of the property, or his agent, and one (1) copy shall be delivered to the
Dyer Metropolitan Police Department. The stop-work order shall state the
conditions under which land alteration may be resumed. A stop-work order may be
issued if:
      (1)   Land alteration is proceeding in a manner reasonably likely to
cause harm to persons or property; or
      (2)   Land alteration is occurring in violation of a drainage requirement
and in such manner that if land alteration is allowed to proceed, there is a
probability that it will be substantially difficult to correct the violation;
or
      (3)   Land alteration has been accomplished in violation of a drainage
requirement and a period of time which is one-half (½) the time period in which
land alteration could be completed, but no longer than fifteen (15) calendar
days has elapsed since written notice of the violation or noncompliance was
either posted on the property in a conspicuous place or given to the person
doing the land alteration, without the violation of noncompliance being
corrected; or
      (4)   Land alteration for which a drainage permit is required is
proceeding without a drainage permit being in force. In such an instance the
stop-work order shall indicate that the effect of the order terminates when the
required drainage permit is obtained.
   (b)   This sanction shall in no way limit the operation of penalties
provided elsewhere in this Article. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 17, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-23 General Penalty.
Any person, partnership or corporation violating the substantive or procedural
provisions of this ordinance or any regulation promulgated by the Board shall
be subject to a fine in any sum not exceeding Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars
($2,500.00). Each day that the property remains in violation of this Article or
any regulation promulgated thereunder shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 92-4, § 18, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-24 Variance Procedure.
   (a)   The Board shall have the power to modify or waive any minimum drainage
standard found in this ordinance or any regulations promulgated by it. The
Board may, but is not required to, grant such a modification or waiver if an
applicant for a drainage permit makes a substantial showing:
      (1)   That a minimum drainage standard regulation is infeasible or
unreasonably burdensome; and
      (2)   That an alternate plan submitted by the applicant will achieve the
same objective and purpose as compliance with minimum drainage standards and
regulations.
   (b)   The request for a variance together with supporting information shall
be made in writing to the Board who shall make a decision within thirty (30)
days. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 19, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-25 Application Fee.
Each application for a drainage permit shall be accomplished by an application
fee of Fifty Dollars ($50.00), except, applications made pursuant to Section
7-12, in which case the fee shall be Thirty Dollars ($30.00). (Ord. No. 92-4, §
20, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-26 Exemption For Certain Governmental Units.
Drainage permits shall be obtained for land alteration activity accomplished by
or for a governmental unit and inspections as specified in this section shall
be allowed. Fees shall be required as specified in Section
7-25, except for the following:
   (1)   Land alteration activity for which a fee cannot be charged by the
municipality because of federal or state law, or
   (2)   Land alteration activity accomplished by an employee or contractor of
the Civil Town of Dyer in the course of governmental, as opposed to
proprietary, duties. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 21, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-27 Drainage To Adequate Receiving Place.
A drainage facility shall be provided which allows drainage of water runoff
from each upper watershed area and from each portion of the parcel to a place
or places adequate to receive it.
Sec. 7-28 Characteristics Of Drainage Facility.
The drainage facility shall:
   (1)   Be capable of accommodating a 25-year rainfall intensity without
endangering the public safety and health, or causing significant damage to
property;
   (2)   Be durable;
   (3)   Be easily maintained;
   (4)   Be safe to persons and vehicles;
   (5)   Retard sedimentation;
   (6)   Retard erosion.
   (7)   Where necessary, or required by the Board, provide retention/detention
storage volume sufficient to accommodate a 100-year storm with a 3-year release
rate;
   (8)   Where necessary, or required by the Board, provide retention/detention
outlets designed to allow for no increase in runoff rate. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 23,
2-10-92)
Sec. 7-29 Accommodation Of Runoff Within Parcel.
The part of the drainage facility situated within the parcel, in addition to
complying with the requirements stated under Section
7-28:
   (a)   Shall drain each and every part of the parcel;
   (b)   Shall be sufficient to accept:
      (1)   The water runoff from the parcel after development; and
      (2)   The present water runoff from developed areas upstream; and
      (3)   The present water runoff from undeveloped areas upstream; and
      (4)   That part of the water runoff attributable to future development in
undeveloped areas upstream, which is not reasonably likely to be accommodated
in such upstream areas. The nature of the future development shall be that
projected by applicant, subject to the Board's agreement. The amount of water
runoff not accommodated in connection with such future development shall be
determined by good engineering practice, and may assume use of retention-
detention systems except for:
         (a)   Land alteration for which a permit is not required by this
section; and
         (b)   Parcels too small to effectively use a retention-detention
system; and
         (c)   Parcels relative to which it is technically infeasible to use a
retention-detention system; and
         (d)   Parcels relative to which the cost of providing a retention-
detention system is substantially more than providing for increased runoff
capacity through the parcel and through other downstream areas to a place
adequate to receive the runoff.
   (c)   May include improvements such as retention-detention systems in the
instance where the condition of the land makes use of such improvements
feasible and appropriate. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 24, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-30 Accommodation Of Runoff Downstream From Parcel.
As to drainage facilities located downstream and beyond the boundary of the
parcel, the drainage system within the parcel shall be designed such that there
will be no increase in peak discharge or runoff rates as a result of the
development unless said downstream facilities located beyond the limits of the
parcel are sufficient to accept:
   (1)   The water runoff from the parcel after development; plus
   (2)   The present water runoff from developed areas upstream; plus
   (3)   The present water runoff of those areas through which the drainage
facility passes. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 24, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-31 Acceptance Of Upstream Drainage.
At least one adequate opening shall be provided for each watershed at the
upstream edge of the parcel to accept upstream drainage. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 26,
2-10-92)
Sec. 7-32 Habitable Structures To Be Free From 100-Year Floods.
The drainage facility shall be such that all habitable structures are free from
a 100-year flood as defined by the Firm Map Flood Area. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 27,
2-10-92)
Sec. 7-33 Drainage Away From Structures.
The drainage facility shall direct storm water away from structures. (Ord. No.
92-4, § 28, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-34 Damage To Adjoining Property.
Land alterations shall be accomplished so as to prevent damage to adjoining
property. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 29, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-35 Maximum Slope.
The maximum vertical fall of earth on the parcel shall be six inches (6") per
foot (two [2] horizontal to one [1] vertical), for riprapped areas and four
inches (4") per foot (three [3] horizontal to one [1] vertical) for vegetation
cover, unless otherwise approved by the Board. Slopes of other materials other
than earth shall be at the safe angle of repose for the materials encountered.
(Ord. No. 92-4, § 30, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-36 Permanency Of Grades.
Land alteration shall be accomplished in such a way that the grades left at the
time that the work is completed will be permanent and stable. Vegetable
materials may be buried in the ground only if placement will clearly not
interfere with the stability of fill areas and not cause settlement or erosion.
(Ord. No. 92-4, § 32, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-37 Subsurface Drainage.
Subsurface drainage sufficient to intercept seepage that would:
   (1)   Affect earth slope stability or stability of the building foundation;
or
   (2)   Create undesirable wetness;
shall be provided in areas having a high water table. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 32, 2-
10-92)
Sec. 7-38 Blocking Drainageways.
No excavations or fills, structures, fences, trees, shrubs, or other like
impediments, shall block or otherwise impede the free drainage of surface water
in a drainage swale or channel. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 33, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-39 Exposed Areas To Be Protected; Potential Erosion Minimized.
Land alteration which strips the land of vegetation, including regrading, shall
be done in a way that will minimize erosion. Whenever feasible, natural
vegetation shall be retained, protected and supplemented. Cut and fill
operations shall be kept to a minimum to ensure conformity with existing
topography so as to create the least potential erosion. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 34,
2-10-92)
Sec. 7-40 Protection During Development.
During any land alteration, the following erosion control requirements shall
apply:
   (1)   Soil stabilization shall be completed within five (5) days of clearing
or inactivity in construction;
   (2)   If seeding or another vegetative erosion control method us used, it
shall become established within two (2) weeks or the Board of Storm Water
Management may require the site to be reseeded or a nonvegetative option
employed;
   (3)   Special techniques that meet the design criteria outlined herein on
steep slopes or in drainage ways shall be used to ensure stabilization;
   (4)   Soil stockpiles must be stabilized or covered at the end of each
workday;
   (5)   The entire site must be stabilized, using a heavy mulch layer or
another method that does not require germination to control erosion, at the
close of the construction season;
   (6)   Techniques shall be employed to prevent the blowing of dust or flow of
sediment from the site; and
   (7)   Techniques that divert upland runoff past disturbed slopes shall be
employed.
(Ord. No. 92-4, § 35, 2-10-92; Am. Ord. No. 2004-20, § 1, 9-15-04)
Sec. 7-41 Permanent Vegetation: Structural Methods.
Permanent and final vegetation or structural erosion-control devices shall be
installed as soon as practical under the circumstances. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 36,
2-10-92)
Sec. 7-42 Sediment Control.
During any land alteration, the following sediment control requirements shall
apply:
   (1)   Settling Basins. A settlement basin is an impoundment with a
controlled stormwater release structure for the purpose of detaining runoff to
allow excessive sediment to settle. Settlement basins shall be required at the
outlet of any disturbed areas with major grading that are larger than ten (10)
acres. The minimum volume of a sediment basin shall be sixty-seven (67) cubic
yards per acre for the total drainage area, measured below the top of principal
spillway or riser. The clean-out volume shall be not less than one-quarter (1/
4) nor more than one-third (1/3) of the total storage volume of a sediment
basin. Maximum slopes shall be 2:1 (H:V) for excavated areas and for compacted
embankments. Side slopes shall be 3:1 (H:V) or flatter, which will allow people
and equipment to safely negotiate slopes or to enter the sediment basin for
maintenance and repair purposes. The length to width ratio must be greater than
2:1 (L:W) for the principal flowpaths in order to maximize residence time of
stormwater within the sediment basin. The principal outlet or spillway should
be sized to adequately convey stormwater runoff from the two (2) year, twenty-
four (24) hour storm.
   (2)   Sediment Traps. A sediment trap is a small temporary pond that drains
a disturbed area so that sediment can settle out. Sediment traps shall be
required for any disturbed area which is greater than one (1) acre and less
than five (5) acres. The minimum volume of a sediment trap shall be sixty-seven
(67) cubic yards per acre for the total drainage area. The outlet structure
shall consist of layers of aggregate, rock or riprap material. The clean-out
volume shall be not less than one-quarter (1/4) nor more than one-third (1/3)
of the total storage volume of a sediment basin. Maximum slopes shall be 2:1
(H:V) for excavated areas and for compacted embankments. Side slopes shall be
3:1 (H:V) or flatter, which will allow people and equipment to safely negotiate
slopes or to enter the sediment basin for maintenance and repair purposes. The
length to width ratio must be greater than 2:1 (L:W) for the principal
flowpaths in order to maximize residence time of stormwater within the sediment
basin. An emergency overflow weir should be provided at an elevation of at
least one and one-half feet (1.5') below the top of embankment, with a minimum
freeboard of one foot (1').
   (3)   Silt Fences. Silt fencing shall be required on all disturbed areas and
shall be constructed pursuant to the following standards:
      a.   Install silt fence at level grade parallel to the contour of the
land; extend ends upslope to allow water to pond behind fence; excavate a
trench four inches (4") wide, eight inches (8") deep; install fence with posts
on the down slope side; place twelve inches (12") of fabric in the trench,
extending the bottom four inches (4") toward the upslope side; join silt fence
sections by using a wrap joint; backfill trench with soil materials and
compact; inspect at least weekly and after each storm event, repairing as
needed and removing sediment deposits when they reach one-half (1/2) the fence
height.
      b.   The maximum drainage area to the silt fence shall be one-half (0.5)
acre or less per one hundred feet (100') of fence. Silt fencing shall not be
used in live or continuously flowing streams or channels and shall not be used
in ditches or swales which drain areas greater than one (1) acre. Silt fences
shall not be used in steep ditches or swales where the design flow is greater
than two feet (2') per second.
      c.   Silt fencing fabric shall be comprised of synthetic filter fabric
manufactured from woven or nonwoven sheets of polypropylene, nylon or
polyester. Typical properties for silt fencing fabric shall be as follows:
         Tensile strength at 20% elongation:   50 pounds per linear inch
         Burst strength:               180 psi
         Trapezoidal tear strength:         50 pounds
         Apparent opening size:         20 to 30 (US sieve size)
         Flow rate:                  0.30 gallons per minute per square foot
      d.   The maximum length of silt fence between posts is eight feet (8').
Wood posts shall have a minimum dimension of two inches (2") x two inches (2")
for hard woods (i.e. oak) and three inches (3") x three inches (3") for soft
woods (i.e. pine). Typical post length shall be forty-eight inches (48"). There
shall be a minimum of five (5) fasteners for each wood post.
      e.   The maximum slope lengths for silt fence installations shall be as
follows:
         Land Slope                     Maximum Slope Length
         Less than 2%                   100 feet
         From 2% to 5%                  75 feet
         From 5% to 10%                   50 feet
         From 10% to 20%                25 feet
         More than 20%                  15 feet
   (4)   Protection for adjacent properties by the use of a vegetated buffer
strip combination with perimeter controls.
   (5)   Installation and maintenance of drop inlet protection devices,
utilizing either of the following techniques:
      a.   Silt Fence. Construct a six inch (6") dike on the down slope side to
prevent bypass flow; dig a trench eight inches (8") deep and four inches (4")
wide; space support posts evenly against the inlet perimeter a maximum of four
feet (4') apart and drive them one and one-half feet (1.5') into the ground;
use enough fabric from a single roll to eliminate joints and using lath and
nails, fasten fabric to the posts; place twelve inches (12") of fabric in the
trench, extending the bottom four inches (4") toward the upslope side; joint
silt fence sections by using a wrap joint; backfill the trench with soil
materials and compact; cross brace the corners to prevent collapse of the
structure; inspect at least weekly and after each storm event, and repair as
needed, and remove accumulated sediments after every storm.
      b.   Placement of a pre-manufactured drop inlet protection device around
the inlet perimeter, having at least the same design characteristics set forth
in the preceding paragraph.
      c.   Block and Gravel. Place concrete blocks lengthwise on their sides in
a single row around the perimeter of the inlet, so that the open ends face
outward and not upward. Ends of adjacent blocks should abut. The height of the
barrier can be varied by stacking combinations of blocks that are typically six
(6) or eight (8) inches high. Place geotextile filter fabric over the outside
vertical face of the concrete blocks. If more than one (1) strip is necessary,
overlap the strips by at least one foot (1'). Place clean stone against the
geotextile filter fabric up to the top of the concrete blocks. Use one-half
inch (1/2") to three-quarter inch (3/4") gravel.
   (6)   A temporary site access road provided at all sites, unless the Town of
Dyer Board of Storm Water Management determines that such temporary access road
is not necessary. Such temporary site access road shall be constructed pursuant
to the following standards:
      Place six inches (6") of course aggregate (INDOT CA No. 2) over a stable
subgrade; construct the road at least twelve feet (12') wide and fifty feet
(50') long or the distance of the foundation; add stone as needed to maintain
six inches (6") of clean depth.
   (7)   Other measures required by the Town of Dyer Board of Storm Water
Management in order to ensure that sediment is not tracked onto public streets
by construction vehicles or washed into storm drains. (Ord. No. 92-4, § 37, 2-
10-92; Am. Ord. No. 2004-20, § 2, 9-15-04)
Sec. 7-43 Additional Powers.
In connection with the issuance of drainage permits, or in connection with the
powers granted to the Board in Indiana Code, § 8-1.5-5-1, et seq., if the Board
finds and determines that new drains should be constructed, or existing drains
should be required, maintained or reconfigured, and the Board finds such action
would be conducive to the public health, convergence or welfare or of public
benefit or utility, such action shall be undertaken by the Board.
Upon approval of the Town Council, the Board may assess and collect user fees
from all of the property of the storm water district for such purposes; or upon
approval by the Town Council the Board may cause bonds to be issued to pay for
such construction, repair, maintenance or reconfiguration.
In all instances wherein a letter of map revision has been issued by Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) after approval by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources (IDNR) the plans and specifications adopted by the Board for
constructing, repairing, maintaining, or reconfiguring of any existing drain
shall be such as to assure that the channel shape and elevation of such drain
will be maintained as stated in the modeling submitted to obtain such letter of
map revision. Further, such specifications shall provide for the removal of all
bush, low growing trees and thick tall grasses which may have developed on the
banks of in the channel of such drains.
Nothing contained herein shall preclude the Board from proceeding under the
authority granted in Indiana Code, § 36-9-27-22 as to regulated drains as
defined in Indiana Code, § 36-9-27-2 or from proceeding under Indiana Code, §
36-9-27-98 if the Town Council appropriates the funds required to proceed
thereunder; provided further, that nothing herein shall be interpreted as
limiting the right of the Town Council to levy a tax for drainage purposes the
proceeds of which are to be used and administered by the Board. (Ord. No. 92-4,
§ 38, 2-10-92)
Sec. 7-44 through Sec. 7-49 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. BUILDING CODE. 1
                  
1   I.C., § 36-7-2-9, addresses building standards.
Division I. Background Provisions.
Sec. 7-50 Title.
This Article, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the “Building Code of the Town of Dyer, Indiana”, may be cited as
such, and will be referred to herein as “this code” (Ord. No. 8-11, § 1, 2-2-
88)
Sec. 7-51 Purpose.
The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection of
life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures. (Ord. No. 88-11, § 2, 2-2-88)
Sec. 7-52 Authority of Building Commissioner.
The Building Commissioner is authorized and directed to administer and enforce
all of the provisions of this code. Whenever in this code, it is provided that
anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the direction of the
Building Commissioner or any other officer of the Town of Dyer, this shall be
construed to give such officer only the discretion of determining whether this
code has been complied with; and no such provision shall be construed as giving
any officer discretionary powers as to what this code shall be, or power to
require conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to enforce this code in an
arbitrary or discriminatory manner. (Ord. No. 88-11, § 3, 2-2-88)
Sec. 7-53 Scope.
The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alteration, repair, use,
occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings, structures, and fences
in the Town of Dyer, Indiana. (Ord. No. 88-11, § 4, 3-8-88)
Sec. 7-54 Adoption Of Rules By Reference.
   (a)   Building rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission as set out in the following Articles of Title 675 of the Indiana
Administrative Code are incorporated by reference in this ordinance and shall
include later amendments to those Articles as the same are published in the
Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code with effective dates as
fixed therein:
      (1)   Article 13 - Building Codes
   (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards
         (b)   Indiana Building Code
   (c)   Indiana Building Code Standards
   (d)   Indiana Handicapped Accessibility Code
      (2)   Article 14 - One and Two Family Dwelling Codes
         (a)   Indiana Residential Code
         (b)   Standard for Permanent Installation of Manufactured Homes
      (3)   Article 15 - Industrialized Building Systems
      (4)   Article 16 - Plumbing Codes
         Indiana Plumbing Code
      (5)   Article 17 - Electrical Codes
   (a)   Indiana Electrical Code
         (b)   Safety Code for Health Care Facilities
      (6)   Article 18 - Mechanical Codes
         Indiana Mechanical Code
      (7)   Article 19 – Energy Conservation Codes
         (a)   Indiana Energy Conservation Code
      (8)   Article 20 – Swimming Pool Codes
         (a)   Indiana Swimming Pool Code
         (b)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on
file in the office of the Building Department of the Town of Dyer, Indiana.
      (9)   Indiana Fire Code.
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 5, 2-2-88; Am. Ord. No. 2008-03, § 1, 3-19-08)
Sec. 7-55 Application For Permits.
No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for a permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the
work to be done. In addition, a copy of a Design Release, issued by the State
Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal pursuant to Indiana Code § 22-
15-3-1, shall be provided to the Building Commissioner before issuance of a
permit for construction covered by such Design Release. (Ord. No. 88-11, § 6,
2-2-88)
Sec. 7-56 Permit Required.
A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration or repair
of any building or structure, the cost of which exceeds One Thousand Dollars
($1,000.00), using forms furnished by the Building Commissioner, and all fees
required by this Code shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Dyer.
Electrical and Plumbing permits shall be issued only to duly licensed
electrical and plumbing contractors, or the property owner. (Ord. No. 90-35, §
7, 11-13-90)
Sec. 7-57 Other Ordinances.
All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all other
ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for permits, there
shall be paid the fees prescribed in such ordinances. (Ord. No. 88-11, § 8, 2-
2-88)
Sec. 7-58 Additional Requirements to Obtain a Building Permit.
   (a)   Minimum Mandatory Conditions. In addition to any other conditions that
may be required in connection with the issuance of building permits under the
Town Code, each building permit issued in connection with the construction,
reconstruction, installation, demolition, maintenance, or repair of any
commercial building estimated to cost Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars
($250,000.00) or more or in connection with a residential building with five
(5) or more units shall be subject to, and shall include the following set of
mandatory permit conditions and qualifications:
      (1)   It is a mandatory and material requirement for the issuance and
retention of a building permit that any construction manager, general
contractor, or other lead or prime contractor, or any entity functioning in any
such capacity, and any other contractor or subcontractor of any tier or other
person or entity that is engaged to perform the construction work on the
property that is the subject of this permit (hereinafter, collectively and
individually referred to as the “contractor”) shall comply with these
qualifications and conditions at all times during their performance of work on
the project;
      (2)   The contractor shall not have been barred or suspended from
performing construction work by any federal, state, or local government agency
or authority in the three (3) years immediately preceding the application for a
building permit;
      (3)   The contractor shall not have been found within the past three (3)
years by a court or governmental agency in violation of any law relating to
providing worker’s compensation insurance coverage, misclassification of
employees as independent contractors, payment of employer payroll taxes,
employee income tax withholding, wage and hour laws, prompt payment law, or
prevailing wage laws;
      (4)   The contractor shall maintain appropriate workers compensation
insurance as required by Indiana Code § 22-3-5, et seq., and provide
documentary proof of such coverage to the Town Manager to be maintained as a
public record;
      (5)   The contractor shall properly classify all employees as employees
rather than independent contractors, and comply with all laws accordingly for
the purposes of minimum wages and overtime, worker's compensation insurance
coverage, unemployment taxes, Social Security taxes, and state and federal
income tax withholding;
      (6)   The contractor shall maintain detailed payroll records and provide
the records to the Town Manager, or his/her designee, within five (5) days of a
request for the same;
      (7)   The contractor shall comply with Indiana Code § 22-2, et seq., with
respect to the payment of wages; and
      (8)   The contractor shall pay all required contributions to the
unemployment insurance benefit fund established by Indiana Code § 22-4-26-1.
   (b)   In the event any person or entity subject to the foregoing conditions
and qualifications fails to comply with any of the qualifications and
conditions with respect to the project for which the permit was issued, the
permit shall be deemed, by operation of law, temporarily suspended and all
construction work on the entire project shall cease immediately upon issuance
of a stop work order by the Town Manager, or his/her designee, until further
notice.
   (c)   The applicant for the building permit shall be responsible for
requiring that all contractors performing construction work pursuant to the
permit comply with the minimum mandatory conditions required by this section
for the duration of work on the project. If any person or entity subject to
those minimum mandatory conditions fails to comply with any of the
qualifications and conditions with respect to work on the project, and in
addition to any other penalties or consequences provided by law, the Town
Manager, or his/her designee, shall issue a stop work order with respect to all
construction work on the entire project until the violation is corrected. Upon
the Town Manager, or his/her designee, determining that the violation has been
corrected, he/she shall withdraw the stop work order and construction on the
project may proceed.
   (d)   In the event that a complaint is filed and/or brought to the attention
of the Town of Dyer, the town shall conduct a complete investigation into
compliance with the required minimum mandatory conditions. Any documents
requested by the town from the building permit holder shall be produced to the
town within five (5) business days after the request. In the event that a
violation is found, the building permit holder shall forfeit the building
permit and all fees paid to the town. All documents shall be recorded as public
documents and shall be forwarded to local, county, and state prosecuting
attorneys and government officials for further investigation and/or
prosecution.
   (e)   In the event the person or entity holding the building permit is found
in violation of any local, state, or federal employment, wage, or tax laws or
the minimum mandatory conditions set forth herein, the Town Manager shall not
issue a building permit to the person or entity for a period of five (5) years
from the date of the violation. Any new building permit issued thereafter shall
require the mandatory reporting of all payroll documents, including pay stubs
for all employees, payment of minimum wages, and statutory overtime, proof of
payment of all required unemployment taxes, Social Security taxes, and state
and federal income tax withholding, and proof of current workers compensation
insurance coverage for the proper amount of employees on a weekly basis. All of
these reporting requirements shall be for the duration of the permit.
(Ord. 2019-08, § 1, 9-12-19)
Sec. 7-59 Reserved for Future Use.
Division II. Fees and Exemptions.
Sec. 7-60 Building and Moving Fees.
   (a)   Building and moving permits shall be as follows:
      (1)   For a total valuation from $0.00 to $1,000.00   $25.00
         For each additional $1,000 or fraction thereof   $ 7.00
         Building Inspection Fee (to be added to cost of building permit)
   $25.00
         Building Inspection Fee (for inspection requested by person or
         firm other than the permit holder)   $100.00
      (2)   Reinspection required in addition to the three regular inspections
shall be at the owner or contractor's expense at the rate of $50.00 for each
reinspection. Said charge shall be paid prior to reinspection.
      (3)   In the event a "red tag" is issued for work in progress without a
permit, a fee of $350.00 shall be charged in addition to the scheduled permit
fee before any additional work may be done. Said fee is reasonably related to
the administrative cost required thereto and is established pursuant to the
Home Rule Authority of the Town.
      (4)   For purposes of determining the amount of the Building Permit Fee,
the Total Valuation shall be established by multiplying the number of square
feet of the ground floor living area by $100.00 per square foot, exclusive of
garages, breezeways, and open porches. The second level, whether it be the
lower area of a tri-level structure, lower level of a bi-level or split level,
or second floor of a two-story shall be computed at $60 per square foot. In
addition, open porches, garages, and breezeways shall be computed at the rate
of $20 per square foot.
For example, the Total Valuation of a tri-level with 1,500 square feet on the
main floor, 750 square feet on the lower level, 600 square feet in the garage,
and a breezeway consisting of 200 square feet would be computed as follows:
         1,500 sq. ft.      x   $100.00   $150,000.00
         750 sq. ft.      x   $60.00   $45,000.00
         600 sq. ft.      x   $20.00   $12,000.00
         200 sq. ft.      x   $20.00   $4.000.00
(Ord. No. 88-11, § 9[A], 3-8-88; Am. Ord. 88-29, § 9[A], 5-10-88; Am. Ord. No.
95-5, § X, 4-11-95; Am. Ord. 98-11, § 1, 7-14-98; Am. Ord. No. 2008-03, § 1, 3-
19-08; Am. Ord. No. 2014-15, 11-13-14)
Sec. 7-61 Wrecking and Other Building Permits.
Wrecking and other building permit fees shall be as follows:
   1000 square feet or less   $25.00
   Over 1000 square feet to 2500 square feet   $30.00
   Over 2500 square feet, for each 2500 square feet or major fraction
thereof   $35.00
   Occupancy, original certificate   $10.00
   Renewal of Certification   $20.00
   Issuance of copy of Certificate   $1.00
(Ord. No. 88-1, § 9[B], 2-2-88)
Sec. 7-62 Driveway Permits.
Driveway Permit Fees shall be as follows:
   Residential and Commercial   $40.00
(Ord. No. 88-1, § 9[C], 2-2-88)
Sec. 7-63 Sign Permits.
Sign Permit Fees shall be as follows:
   (1)   For a total valuation of$0 to $500   $25.00
      For each $500 or fraction thereof   $10.00
      Reinspection fee   $15.00
      Temporary Sign (per sign)   $10.00
      Annual banner permit fee is prorated at $10.00 per month, from the first
day of the month in which the permit is issued.
   (2)   A fee shall not be charged for installation of a temporary sign by a
religious or charitable organization. (Ord. No. 88-1, § 9[D], 2-2-88; Am. Ord.
No. 2005-3, 2-16-05)
Sec. 7-64 Plumbing, House Drainage and Sewer Work.
Plumbing, House Drainage and Sewer Fees shall be as follows:
   (1)   Permit cost shall be seventy-five dollars ($75.00), plus an additional
ten dollars ($10.00) for each sink, closet, lavatory, bath tub, shower,
drainage fountain, urinal, laundry tray, automatic washer, garbage disposal,
dishwasher, slop sink, sump pump, sill cock, floor drain, inside down spout,
range boiler and/or side arm heater, water heater, storage tank, air
conditioning unit requiring water connection, and humidifier requiring water
connection, plus ten dollars ($10.00) for each additional outlet provided for
future rough in. (Am. Ord. No. 2014-15, 11-13-14)
   (2)   The minimum plumbing permit fee shall be one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00), which shall include the administration fee of seventy-five dollars
($75.00). (Ord. No. 88-11, § 9[E], 2-8-88; Am. Ord. No. 98-11, § 2, 7-14-98;
Am. Ord. No. 2014-15, 11-13-14)
   (3)   Reinspection or inspection subsequent to “red tag” shall be at the
expense of the owner or applicant at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
each reinspection. Said charge shall be paid prior to reinspection. (Am. Ord.
No. 2014-15, 11-13-14)
   (4)   Permit fee for plumbing work valued at less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) shall be fifty dollars ($50.00), and shall require one inspection at
the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00). Reinspection shall be at the rate of fifty
dollars ($50.00) each. (Ord. No. 88-29, § 9[E], 5-10-88; Am. Ord. No. 98-11, §
2, 7-14-98; Am. Ord. No. 2008-03, § 1, 3-19-08; Am. Ord. No. 2014-15, 11-13-14)
   (5)   Plumbing work outside of a building foundation and plumbing work on
any connections outside of a building foundation up to the main town sanitary
sewer line servicing the building including, but not limited to, the
installation, repair, or replacement of the line or sanitary clean out are
excluded from the permit requirements and fees in Sections
7-64(1) through (4) above. The permit fee for such work shall be fifty dollars
($50.00). The inspection for this work shall be performed by personnel from the
Public Works Department. Re-inspection or inspection subsequent to a “Red Tag”
shall be at the expense of the owner or applicant at the rate of forty dollars
($40.00) for each re-inspection. The fees shall be paid prior to re-inspection.
(Ord. No. 2012-10, § 1, 5-10-12)
Sec. 7-65 Electrical Installation.
Electrical installation fees shall be as follows:
Permit cost shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for issuance or permit, plus
inspection expense as follows:
   (1)   All residential services any size will be at the rate of one dollar
($1.00) per ampere. All commercial and industrial services will be at one
dollar ($1.00) per ampere. All three phase services will be at the rate of one
dollar and fifteen cents ($1.15) per ampere. (Ord. No. 88-1, § 9 [F][1], 2-2-
88; Am. Ord. No. 98-11, § 3, 7-14-98)
   (2)   Temporary pole permit shall be at the rate of twenty-five dollars ($
25.00) for permit, and twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for one inspection.
Reinspection shall be at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per reinspection.
In the event a temporary service, other than a temporary pole, is converted to
a permanent service, credit shall be given for the cost of the temporary
service. (Ord. No. 90-13, § 9 [F][2], 3-13-90; Am. Ord. No. 98-11, § 3, 7-14-
98)
   (3)   All room additions, remodels, etc., without a change of service shall
be at the rate of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per inspection.
   (4)   Normal inspections shall consist of one rough and one final
inspection. All additional inspections caused by improper installation shall be
at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per inspection.
   (5)   Minimum inspection fee shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00). (Ord.
No. 88-1, § 9[F][3]-[5], 2-2-88; Am. Ord. No. 98-11, § 3, 7-14-98)
   (6)   Permit and inspection shall be required for all electrical signs and
burglar alarms monitored by the town at the rate of twenty-five dollars
($25.00) per sign or burglar alarm inspection. (Ord.No. 88-11, § 9 [F][6], 3-8-
88; Am. Ord. No. 98-11, § 3, 7-14-98)
   (7)   In the event an application for permit shall be made for which the
foregoing fee schedule is not applicable, the application shall be reviewed by
the inspector and a fair and equitable fee will be determined consistent with
the foregoing fee schedule, subject to review by the Town Council at the rate
of the electrical inspector or the applicant. (Ord. No. 88-1, § 9 [F][7], 2-2-
88)
   (8)   Electrical permit cost for installation or construction of central air
conditioning, above ground swimming pool, fireplace, or unattached garage,
shall be twenty-five dollars ($25.00); and shall require one inspection at a
cost of twenty-five dollars ($25.00). Reinspection, if necessary, shall be at
the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) each.
(Ord. No. 88-29, § 9 [F][8], 5-10-88; Am. Ord. No. 98-11, § 3, 7-14-98; Am.
Ord. No. 2008-03, § 1, 3-19-08; Am. Ord. No. 2014015, 11-13-14)
Sec. 7-66 Payment Fees.
The amount so required for each permit shall be paid by the party or parties
contemplating such erection, construction, repair, changes or additions,
electrical, or plumbing installations, to the Clerk-Treasurer of said Town at
his/her office in the Town Hall. The electrical and plumbing permit fees in the
amount of $25.00 each, together with all permit fees for building and moving
permits, and wrecking and other building permits, collected by the Clerk-
Treasurer shall be reported to the Town Council on a monthly basis after having
been paid into the Clerk Treasurer's office, and shall be and become a part of
the General Fund of the Town. (Ord. No. 88-1, § 9 [G], 2-2-88; Am. Ord. No. 98-
11, § 4, 7-14-98)
Sec. 7-67 Reinspection Fees.
An amount equal to three-quarters (¾) of the electrical inspection fee shall be
paid to the electrical inspector as his/her inspection fee. An amount equal to
three-quarters (¾) of the plumbing inspection fee shall be paid to the plumbing
inspector as his/her inspection charge. The entire reinspection fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) per reinspection shall be paid to the Clerk-Treasurer, with
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) being kept for administrative expenses and twenty-
five dollars ($25.00) being paid to the inspector who makes the reinspection.
The permit fee, and the balance of the electrical and plumbing inspection fees,
shall be used to offset the administration expenses incurred by the Town in
issuing the permit, and to provide for other miscellaneous expenses of the
building department including salaries of the Building Commissioner, office
help, and for adequate space. All such fees shall be paid out upon sworn
statements or claims filed with the Town Council, as other claims against said
Town of Dyer are paid. In the event the Building Commissioner or Building
Inspector performs the plumbing inspection, the entire plumbing permit fee
shall be payable to the Town of Dyer to cover a portion of the salary of the
Building Commissioner. (Am. Ord. No. 2014-15, 11-13- 14)
Sec. 7-68 Swimming Pools.
Permit Fees for Swimming Pools shall be as follows:
   Above ground swimming pools   flat fee of $25.00
   Inground pools:
   For a valuation of $ 0 - $1000   $25.00
   For each additional $1,000 valuation or portion thereof   $ 7.00
Plumbing and Electrical Permits and inspection fees shall be additional.
(Ord. No. 88-1, § 9 [I], 2-2-88; Am. Ord. No. 98-11, § 5, 7-14-98; Am. Ord. No.
2008-03, § 1, 3-19-08)
Sec. 7-69 Water.
Permit Fees for Water shall be as follows:
   Construction Water (4 months or less)   $ 70.00
Construction Water (each additional month to date of occupancy permit)   $
28.00
   (Ord. No. 88-1, § 9[J], 2-2-88)
   Water Tap 5/8" - ¾"   $375.00
   Water Tap 1"   $450.00
   Larger than 1"   Cost of meter larger than 1" but not less than $450.00
   (Ord. No. 94-18, § 1, 10-17-94)
   Automatic fire sprinkling system   $ 30.00
   Plus $1.00 per head.
(Ord. No. 88-1, § 9 [J], 2-2-88; Am. Ord. No. 2008-03, § 1, 3-19-08)
Sec. 7-70 Exemptions.
The Town and all political subdivisions thereof, the County of Lake, the State
of Indiana, and the United States of America shall obtain all required permits
prior to constructing, remodeling, renovating, improving, or demolishing any
building or structure on their properties.
The Town and all political subdivisions thereof, the County of Lake, the State
of Indiana, and United States of America shall be exempt from paying any fee
for building permits, certificates of zoning compliance, and occupancy permits.
Religious organizations shall obtain all required permits prior to
constructing, remodeling, renovating, improving, or demolishing any building or
structure on their properties.
Religious organizations shall be exempt from paying any fee for building
permits, certificates of zoning compliance, and occupancy permits.
The Town and all political subdivisions thereof, the County of Lake, the State
of Indiana, the United States of America, and religious organizations shall
also be exempt from payment of the Town's portion of plumbing and electrical
permit fees.
   (1)   All political subdivisions and religious organizations, or their
contractors, shall be required to pay inspection fees to the plumbing and
electrical inspectors.
   (2)   All political subdivisions and religious organizations, or their
contractors, shall be required to pay the cost of sanitary and/or stormwater
and water tap-in fees.
   (3)   The political subdivisions, religious organizations, or their
contractors shall provide the Town of Dyer with a two (2) year performance bond
or letter-of-credit, in an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the estimated
cost of Construction or improvements.
Indiana Public School Corporations may apply to the Town Council for an
exemption from paying any fee for building permits, certificates of zoning
compliance, and occupancy permits. The Town Council may, in its sole
discretion, grant a full or partial exemption from said fees upon submission of
a written request for the same.
(Ord. No. 92-17), § 9 [K], 5-12-92; Am. Ord. No. 2012-12, 8-13-12)
Sec. 7-71 Occupancy Escrow Fee.
   (a)   The Town Council of the Town of Dyer finds it necessary to establish
an occupancy escrow fee in an effort to reduce the number of structures being
inhabited prior to their obtaining an occupancy permit.
   (b)   The occupancy escrow fee will apply only to new construction the
following fee schedule shall apply:
      Residential Construction   $1,000.00
      Commercial Construction which includes schools, churches, hospitals, etc.
$1000.00 for the first 3,000 square feet and $250.00 for every 500 square feet
thereafter.
   (c)   These escrow fees will be refunded to the applicant as long as they do
not occupy their structure prior to receiving an occupancy permit to do so.
   (d)   In the event that a structure is occupied prior to receiving an
occupancy permit, then that amount held in escrow shall be forfeited to the
general fund of the Town of Dyer.
   (e)   It is further necessary to amend Ordinance 88-1 to provide for a fee
in the event that a permit applicant makes significant changes to a permit such
that the original permit becomes void and a new permit must be issued.
   (f)   It is established that a fee of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) shall be
charged to the applicant in the event of the foregoing.
(Ord. No. 93-10, 5-11-88; Am. Ord. No. 98-11, § 6, 7-14-98; Am. Ord. No. 2003-
23, 10-21-03; Am. Ord. No. 2008-03, § 1, 3-19-08)
Sec. 7-72 through Sec. 7-74 Reserved for Future Use.
Division III. Permit Procedures and Related Regulations.
Sec. 7-75 Review Of Application.
   (a)   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Building
Commissioner shall:
      (1)   Review all building permit applications to determine full
compliance with the provisions of this code.
      (2)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      (3)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
flood plain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
         a.   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage.
         b.   Uses conduction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (b)   All new construction improvement location permit applications shall be
accompanied by 2 copies of a Plat of Survey of the subject real property, which
shall which shall identify the proposed lot corner elevations as well as the
building corner elevations. These proposed elevations shall be in conformance
with the development’s approved grading plan. In the absence of an approved
grading plan, elevation data for new construction shall not exceed the
elevation of surrounding properties unless the natural contour of the real
property necessitates the contrary.
   (c)   Erosion and sediment control measures shall be in place prior to the
issuance of an improvement location (building) permit. This includes
construction of a barrier such as a silt fence to prevent soil erosion from
leaving the site as well as placing a stone driveway of a sufficient width to
allow construction vehicles and equipment to access the site without dragging
mud and debris off of the site and onto the roads.
   (d)   All new construction shall be required to provide a plat of survey to
be submitted to the building department at the time that the foundation is
constructed. This plat of survey will be used to determine that the foundation
complies with the grading plan for the development as well as to ensure that
the foundation is properly located in compliance with the setback regulations
for the particular zoning district in which it is located.
   (e)   All new construction shall be required to provide an as-built plat of
survey indicating the lot corner elevations as well as the building corner
elevations.
   (f)   All new construction shall be required to have a dumpster and portable
bathroom on site during the construction of the building. Both items are to be
kept on the property that they serve and shall not be placed in the street. In
the event that a contractor has more than one lot under construction in the
same development he or she shall be allowed to provide one dumpster for
multiple lots to the extent that said dumpster can accommodate the debris that
results from the construction activity.
(Ord. No. 88-1, § 10, 2-2-88; Am. Ord. No. 2002-11, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-
03, § 1, 3-19-08)
Sec. 7-76 Inspection and Reinspection Procedures.
   (a)   After the issuance of any building permit, the Building Commissioner
shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as
are necessary to insure full compliance with the provisions of the Article and
the terms of the permit. The permit holder shall call for each inspection. The
inspector shall have forty-eight (48) hours (exclusive of weekends and/or
holidays) from time of notification to make the requested inspection.
Reinspection of work found to be incomplete or not ready for inspection are
subject to assessment of reinspection fees as prescribed in the Code.
   (b)   Upon completion of the Project and prior to any request for any final
inspection, an as-built Plat of Survey shall be submitted with the as-built
elevations of the lot corners as well as the as-built elevations of the
structure corners. These elevations shall be in conformance with the
development’s approved grading plan.
(Am. Ord. No. 2002-11, 4-16-01)
Sec. 7-77 Inspection Assistance.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, or his designated representative, shall
assist the Building commissioner in the inspection of fire suppression,
detection and alarm systems and shall provide reports of such inspection to the
Building Commissioner. (Ord. No. 88-1, § 12, 2-2-88)
Sec. 7-78 Entry.
Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his duly
authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises in the Town of Dyer to perform any duty imposed upon him
by this code. (Ord. No. 88-1, § 13, 2-2-88)
Sec. 7-79 Stop Order.
Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on
any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and any such
persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed with the work. (Ord. No. 88-1, § 14, 2-2-88)
Sec. 7-80 Certification Of Occupancy.
   (a)   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected,
altered or repaired after the adoption of this Article shall be issued unless
such building or structure was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with
the provisions of the ordinance. It shall be unlawful to occupy any such
building or structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the Building Commissioner.
   (b)   In addition, lot inspections shall be required prior to the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy and the same shall be conducted by the Public
Works Department. Upon the request of the permit holder for the first final
inspection of a given discipline (plumbing, electrical or building), the lot
inspection request shall be forwarded by the Dyer Building Department to the
Dyer Public Works Department whereupon the lot inspection shall be made within
forty-eight (48) hours of the request (exclusive of weekends and/or holidays)
in the same manner as all other inspections.
   (c)   Some lot improvements are weather dependent such as the installation
of sidewalks and driveways, final grading, sodding, seeding, and the like. In
the event that weather is a genuine factor in a lot lacking all of the final
required improvements, an occupancy permit may be issued subject to the
withholding of the occupancy escrow, until such time as all of the conditions
required for a satisfactory lot inspection have been met. Failure to complete
all final required lot improvements within one year of the initial lot
inspection shall result in the forfeiture of the escrow as required by the
building permit application. Forfeiture of the escrow does not void the
builder’s responsibility to complete the lot improvements. Forfeited escrows
will be used to help complete the lot improvements to the extent they are able
to do so.
(Ord. No. 88-1, § 15, 2-2-88; Am. Ord. No. 2002-11, 4-16-02; Am. Ord. No. 2008-
03, § 1, 3-19-08)
Sec. 7-81 Workmanship.
All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade. (Ord. No. 88-1, § 16, 2-2-88)
Sec. 7-82 Violations.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
leassee, subleassee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the Town of Dyer or cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this Code.
(Ord. No. 88-1, § 17, 2-2-88)
Sec. 7-83 Right Of Appeal.
All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner's decision
first through the Board of Zoning Appeals and then to the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission of Indiana in accordance with the provisions of
Indiana Code, §§ 4-21-13-2-7 and 4-21.5-3-7.
(Ord. No. 88-1, § 18, 2-2-88)
Sec. 7-84 Remedies.
The Building Commissioner shall in the name of the Town of Dyer bring actions
in the Criminal or Civil Courts of Lake County, Indiana, for mandatory and
injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order
or orders made by the Building Commissioner, and any such action for mandatory
or injunctive relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties
provided for in this Article. (Ord. No. 88-1, § 19, 2-2-88)
Sec. 7-85 Penalties.
If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions of this
ordinance, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail to perform any
duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Building
Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of this Article
for each such violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or corporation
shall be fined in any sum not less than Fifty Dollars ($50.00) payable through
the Ordinance Violations Bureau for the first violation, and not more than One
Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) thereafter. Each day of such unlawful activity as
in prohibited by the first sentence of this section shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. No. 88-1, § 20, 2-2-88)
Sec. 7-86 through Sec. 7-89 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IV. Enforcement Of Building Standards Procedures.
Sec. 7-90 State Law Adopted By Reference.
Indiana Code, § 36-7-9, et seq., is adopted by the Town of Dyer for enforcement
of building standards. (Ord. No. 89-20, § 1, 6-13-89)
Sec. 7-91 Role of Building Commissioner.
The Building Commissioner is appointed by the Town Council as the executive
department responsible for the administration of building standards in the Town
of Dyer.
(Ord. No. 89-20, § 2, 6-13-89)
Sec. 7-92 Hearing Authority.
The Town Manager is hereby appointed as the hearing authority for all purposes
of Indiana Code, § 36-7-9-7, et seq. (Ord. No. 89-20, § 3, 6-13-89; Am. Ord.
No. 2007-05, 2-21-07)
Sec. 7-93 Substantial Property Interest.
A person shall be deemed to have a “substantial property interest” if he or she
is the holder of the fee simple title, or a portion thereof, or is purchasing
the subject property on contract, which has been duly recorded in the
Recorder's Office of Lake County, Indiana. (Ord. No. 89-20, § 4, 6-13-89)
Sec. 7-94 through Sec. 7-97 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING REGULATIONS.
Sec. 7-98 Registration of Contractors and Subcontractors and Penalties.
   (a)   Sections
4-98 through
4-110 of the Dyer Town Code set forth the requirements for certification
registration procedures for contractors and subcontractors.
   (b)   A person who violates any of the provisions of Sections
4-98 through
4-109 in a calendar year shall be fined for the first violation the sum of
Fifty Dollars ($50.00) payable through the Ordinance Violations Bureau. All
subsequent violations shall be pursued consistent with the provisions of
Section
4-110 of this Code.
Sec. 7-99 Restricting The Size of Residential Water Closets.
   (a)   All future residential construction be required to install not larger
than 1.6 gallons water closets (toilet tank) in any bathroom hereinafter
constructed in the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana.
   (b)   This ordinance shall take effect June 1, 1993. (Ord. No. 93-3, 2-8-93)
Sec. 7-100 through Sec. 7-118 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 5. EXCAVATIONS.
Sec. 7-200 Purpose and Policy.
It is the Town of Dyer's policy that all installation and maintenance of
private utilities occur according to standards that ensure minimum interference
with the property rights and quiet enjoyment of the residents of the Town.
(Ord. 2024-07, § 1, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 7-201 General Provisions.
   (a)   Definitions.
      (1)   Excavate means an operation (1) for the movement, placement, or
removal of earth, rock, or other materials in or on the ground by use of tools
or mechanized equipment or by discharge of explosives, including augering,
backfilling, boring, digging, ditching, drilling, driving, grading, jacking,
plowing in, pulling in, ripping, scraping, trenching, and tunneling; and (2)
for the installation, maintenance, or removal of private utility services,
including a pipe, cable, line, conduit, or wire that transmits gases, liquids,
electrical energy, or communications; and (3) that creates a reasonable
likelihood of disrupting Town infrastructure, including roads, sidewalks,
pathways, and utility lines.
      (2)   Excavator means any person or entity performing the activities
defined under the preceding definition.
      (3)   Right-of-Way Permit means a permit issued by the Town to an
excavator, at the discretion of the Town, under the requirements imposed by
this section.
   (b)   Any excavator intending on excavating must first obtain a right-of-way
permit from the Town and comply with all requirements of this section.
   (c)   All excavators must provide the following information before the Town
may issue a right-of-way permit:
      (1)   Proof of registration with the State of Indiana to do business in
Indiana (if applicable);
      (2)   Proof of insurance;
      (3)   Proof of IURC Pipeline Safety Division training or 811 excavation
training for the excavator, and its executives, managers, and crews in a form
acceptable to the Town Manager or his designee;
      (4)   Internal Safety Plan; and
      (5)   The communication service provider, broadband provider, public
utility or private utility for whom excavator is performing the excavation.
   (d)   Applicants must pay to the Clerk-Treasurer's Office a right-of-way
permit fee and any other applicable fees before such a permit may issue.
   (e)   A right-of-way permit covers only a single excavation.
   (f)   The Town may monitor and inspect excavation activities covered by the
right-of-way permit, including spot inspections, regular documentation review,
random verification with vacuum excavation of projects, and all such other
investigations as are appropriate for the excavation.
(Ord. 2024-07, § 1, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 7-202 Open Cutting.
Permits under the preceding section are required for an open cut on any street
within the Town. The Joliet St., Calumet Ave., Sheffield Ave., Hart St., 213th
St., and 77th Ave. thoroughfares within the corporate limits of the Town are
not open cut unless specifically authorized by the Town Manager or his
designee. All other streets are not open cut if the pavement is less than three
years old unless specifically authorized by the Town Manager or his designee.
Additionally, if an excavator makes four or more cuts per block or disturbs
twenty percent (20%) or more of the road surface on any block, the Town Manager
or his designee, in his discretion, may require the excavator to restore the
road surface for the entire block affected.
(Ord. 2024-07, § 1, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 7-203 Indemnification.
Any excavator performing any work pursuant to a right-of-way permit from the
Town must agree to indemnify the Town and any other party interested in such
work or its performance against all claims, demands, actions, judgments, losses
and expenses which may arise from any injuries to person or persons or damage
to any property resulting from such work, or from any conditions created by
such work on the property, in the street, easement, public place, or right-of-
way.
(Ord. 2024-07, § 1, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 7-204 Bonds.
Each applicant for a right-of-way permit must provide the Town with all of the
following:
   (a)   Requirement for bond. At the time of filing the application, the
applicant must file a bond payable to the Town with the Town Manager or his
designee. The bond amount is as specified in Subsection (b), below, or as
otherwise designated by the Town Manager or his designee. All bond amounts are
per permit unless a larger bond is on file in an amount sufficient to cover
multiple active permits. The Town Manager or his designee may require a bond in
an amount not to exceed one hundred and twenty-five percent (125%) of the total
projected cost of the project if the Town Manager or his designee deems the
bond necessary to ensure performance of the contractor. Bonds are conditioned
on holding the Town harmless from any loss, cost or damage by reason of such
proposed work, and that the same shall be done in all respects in conformity
with the requirements of all laws regulating the same. The Town Manager or his
designee may require a single or continuing bond to cover all work of an
applicant for a period between the date of the execution of the bond and two
years after the date of completion of the project.
   (b)   Bond amounts. Unless otherwise specified by the Town Manager or his
designee, the amount of the bond required under this section is according to
the following schedule:
      Action                           Bond Amount per Permit
      Street cut                            $20,000.00
      Push or bore                            $5,000.00
      Placement of removal of poles               $5,000.00
      Storage of dumpsters or construction materials   $5,000.00
      Sidewalk replacement                      $5,000.00
      Driveway replacement                      $10,000.00
      Lane, bike lane, or sidewalk closure             $5,000.00
      Street closure                        $5,000.00
(Ord. 2024-07, § 1, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 7-205 Permits and Bonds Required.
All excavators, including communication service providers, public utilities,
and private utilities must have a right-of-way permit and post a performance
and a maintenance bond.
(Ord. 2024-07, § 1, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 7-206 Doubled Application Fee.
Any excavator who commences any excavation work before applying for a right-of-
way permit must pay an application fee double that which would otherwise be
required. Should any excavator cut a pavement without a right-of-way permit,
they are subject to the penalties provided below. This provision is without
prejudice to the right of the Town to seek any other available remedy at law.
(Ord. 2024-07, § 1, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 7-207 Unacceptable Contractors.
Any excavator with three calls on their bonds in two years is considered an
unacceptable excavator and may not be granted a right-of-way permit for three
years following the most recent call on their bond.
(Ord. 2024-07, § 1, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 7-208 Underground Utility Hits.
   (a)   Excavators must comply with I.C. 8-1-26, et seq.
   (b)   Excavators must contact known underground utilities in advance of
excavations so that both excavator and the utility operator know in advance the
location of the excavation to ensure adequate location resources are made
available.
   (c)   All underground utility locates must be examined and crossings
confirmed (pursuant to I.C. 8-1-26), via hand digging or hydro vacuum
excavation. Excavators must expose underground utility facilities with hand
digging, vacuum excavation, or similar means, depending on the best conditions
for the site. Hydro vacuum is strongly advised and preferred for gas, water,
and sewer facilities.
   (d)   If an excavator has three (3) hits to an underground utility line in
one month or two (2) underground utility line hits in one (1) week, the Town
may, in its sole discretion, require the excavator to utilize hydro vacuum
excavation for gas, water and sewer utilities for any right-of-way permit that
excavator has in place or for which excavator subsequently applies within the
Town.
   (e)   If an underground facility hit occurs, the excavator must notify 911,
811, the underground utility, and the Town Manager.
   (f)   If an excavator is found at fault by a state or federal administrative
body for an underground utility line hit, the excavator must reimburse all
costs incurred by the Town due to the hit, including inspection fees and
emergency response personnel costs.
   (g)   If an excavator has three (3) hits to underground utility lines in one
(1) month, impose a temporary or permanent stop work order against the
excavator and impose a thousand dollar ($1,000) fine. This provision does not
prevent the Town from seeking other available remedies.
   (h)   In the event the Town has exercised its powers under subsection (g) by
issuing a temporary or permanent stop work order on more than one (1) excavator
performing work for the same communications service provider, broadband
provider, public utility or private utility within a thirty (30) day period,
the Town may additionally, in its discretion, impose a temporary or permanent
stop work order against the communications service provider, broadband
provider, public utility or private utility directing the excavation work to be
performed. This provision does not prevent the Town from seeking other
available remedies.
(Ord. 2024-07, § 1, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 7-209 Excavation Standards.
   (a)   On-site personnel. Excavator must have an employee or inspector
readily available at each excavation site that can effectively communicate with
property owners, residents, and Town staff about the excavator's excavation,
construction, and restoration activities.
   (b)   Restoration and complaints. Within a reasonable amount of time, any
property disturbed during the excavation must be restored to a condition as
good as or better than before the beginning of the excavation and in compliance
with Town standards.
Borings must be restored within three (3) business days of the boring and are
subject to inspection by the Town. Excavator must give consideration to the
amount of restoration needed with each boring, and the boring must occur in a
manner that requires the least amount of restoration ( e.g. using streets and
sidewalks for equipment rather than lawns, etc.). Directly after any boring
under any street, curb, or sidewalks, the excavator must inspect for any
heaving that may have occurred from the boring process, advise the Town of the
damage and put on a high priority list to repair.
   (c)   Handholes, pedestals and flowerpots. Handholes, pedestals, and
flowerpots must be installed at grade (as applicable), level, and square with
sidewalks, curbs, drives, and streets.
   (d)   Notification to property owners.
      (1)   Within a subdivision.
         a.   If an excavator excavates within a subdivision, the excavator
must notify each property owner in writing that it will be entering the
property for excavation. The timing of this notice is at the discretion of the
Town Manager or his designee. Notice must occur via letters and yard darts
stating at a minimum that (a) the excavator will be on the property, (b) the
dates of excavation, (c) what work will be completed on the property, and (d)
contact information for the excavator.
         b.   The Town Manager or his designee, in his sole discretion, may
also require the excavator to notify the homeowners' association (if one
exists) of its presence within the neighborhood. The timing of this notice is
at the discretion of the Town Manager or his designee. With the permission of
the homeowners' association, the excavator must place signs at the entrances of
neighborhoods stating that the excavator will be doing work in the
neighborhood. Upon request, the excavator must provide proof of compliance with
the notification requirements of this section.
      (2)   Outside a subdivision. If the excavator will be entering onto
property or excavating outside of a subdivision, the excavator must notify the
adjacent property owner before entering the property that (a) the excavator or
its contractor will be in their area and on the property, (b) the dates of
excavation, (c) the work to b completed on the property and (c) contact
information for the excavator. The timing of this notice is at the discretion
of the Town Manager or his designee.
(Ord. 2024-07, § 1, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 7-210 Penalties.
   (a)   Any excavator who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not specifically provided is subject to a fine not exceeding
two thousand dollars ($2,000) nor less than two hundred dollars ($200) per
offense. A separate offense is deemed committed for each day during which a
violation occurs or continues. This provision does not prohibit the Town from
seeking other available remedies.
   (b)   The Town Manager or his designee may revoke the right-of-way permit or
may issue one or more temporary or permanent stop work orders against the
Excavator or the communications service provider, broadband provider, public
utility, or private utility for which the excavator is performing the
excavation for violation of any provision of this section.
   (c)   The Town Manager or his designee has authority to enforce all
provisions of this chapter.
   (d)   The penalties provided for in this chapter are separate and distinct
from any penalties assessed to the excavator under I.C. 8-1-26.
(Ord. 2024-07, § 1, 8-15-2024)
Sec. 7-211 Right-of-Way Permit Fees.
   Application fee   $100.00
   Street resurfacing
    (asphalt or concrete)   $1.00 per square foot of surface disturbance*
   Push or bore   $0.10 per linear foot*
   Replacement/removal of poles   $35.00 per pole*
   Grass, dirt, gravel, landscape
    or other unpaved surface   $0.10 per square foot of surface disturbance*
   Sidewalk reconstruction
    (asphalt or concrete)   $1.00 per square foot of surface disturbance*
   Sidewalk new construction
    (asphalt or concrete)   $0.05 per square foot*
   Storage of dumpsters and
    construction materials   $50.00
   Road lane, bike lane,
    or sidewalk closure   $100.00 per week*
   Street closure   $200.00 per week*
   Inspection fee   $25.00
   *Fractional units are counted as a single unit for fee calculation.
(Ord. 2024-07, § 1, 8-15-2024)
CHAPTER 8
TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 1. REGULATIONS ADDRESSING OFF-ROAD AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
Sec. 8-1   Definitions and Interpretation.
Sec. 8-2   Regulations for Snowmobiles and Off-Road Vehicles.
Sec. 8-3   Violations.
Sec. 8-4   Traffic Regulations for Motorized Bicycles.
Sec. 8-5   Reserved.
Sec. 8-6   Miscellaneous Rules and Regulations.
Sec. 8-7 Through Sec. 8-9 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. BICYCLE REGULATIONS.
Sec. 8-10   Bicycle Usage Regulations.
Sec. 8-11   Equipment Requirements.
Sec. 8-12   Compliance with Traffic Code.
Sec. 8-13   Reserved.
Sec. 8-14   Reserved.
Sec. 8-15   Penalty.
Sec. 8-16 Through Sec. 8-19 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. TRAFFIC CODE OF THE TOWN OF DYER.
   Division I. In General.
Sec. 8-20   Definitions.
   Division II. Enforcement and Obedience to Traffic Regulations.
Sec. 8-21   Authority of Police Department and Fire Department Officials.
Sec. 8-22   Obedience to Personnel.
Sec. 8-23   Permits for Parades.
Sec. 8-24 and Sec. 8-25 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division III. Pedestrian Obedience to Traffic Signals.
Sec. 8-26   Pedestrians to Comply.
Sec. 8-27 and Sec. 8-28 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division IV. Method of Parking.
Sec. 8-29   Standing or Parking Close to Curb.
Sec. 8-30   Angle Parking Prohibited.
Sec. 8-31 and Sec. 8-32 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division V. Miscellaneous Driving Rules.
Sec. 8-33   Funeral Processions.
Sec. 8-34   Driving Through Funeral Procession.
Sec. 8-35   Restrictions on Backing.
Sec. 8-36   Vehicles Shall Not Be Driven on Sidewalks.
Sec. 8-37   Boarding or Alighting from Vehicles.
Sec. 8-38   Unlawful Riding.
Sec. 8-39 and Sec. 8-40 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VI. Traffic Control Devices.
Sec. 8-41   Authority to Install Traffic Control Devices.
Sec. 8-42   Manual and Specifications for Traffic Control.
Sec. 8-43   Obedience to Official Traffic Control Devices Located Within the
Town and Within Construction Areas in the Town.
Sec. 8-44   When Traffic Control Devices are Required for Enforcement Purposes.
Sec. 8-45   Traffic Control Signal Legend.
Sec. 8-46   Flashing Signals.
Sec. 8-47   Display of Unauthorized Signs, Signals or Markings.
Sec. 8-48   Interference with Official Traffic Control Devices or Railroad
Signs or Signals.
Sec. 8-49   and Sec. 8-50 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VII. Stopping, Standing or Parking Restricted or Prohibited on
Certain Streets.
Sec. 8-51   Application of Division.
Sec. 8-52   Regulation Not Exclusive.
Sec. 8-53   Special Regulations for Street Work and Snow.
Sec. 8-54   Illegally Parked or Abandoned Vehicles.
Sec. 8-55   Parking on Private Property Prohibited.
Sec. 8-56   Impounding of Vehicles of Repeated Offenders.
Sec. 8-57   Towing and Storing Fees.
Sec. 8-58   Storage of Vehicle.
Sec. 8-59   Parking Prohibited at All Times on Certain Streets.
Sec. 8-60   Parking Prohibited During Certain Hours on Certain Streets, Except
Sunday and Legal Holidays.
Sec. 8-61   Parking Time Limited on Certain Streets - to 15 Minutes - 8:00 am
to 6:00 pm.
Sec. 8-62   Parking Limited on Certain Streets - Two Hours - 8:00 am to 6:00
pm.
Sec. 8-63 and Sec. 8-64 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VIII. Restricted Streets.
Sec. 8-65   Deliveries on Restricted Streets by Trucks.
Sec. 8-66 and Sec. 8-67 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division IX. Standing or Parking Prohibited in Specific Places.
Sec. 8-68   Stopping, Standing, or Parking Prohibited. No Signs Required.
Sec. 8-69   Parking Not to Obstruct Traffic.
Sec. 8-70   Parking in Alleys.
Sec. 8-71 and Sec. 8-72 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division X. Freight and Passenger Loading Zones.
Sec. 8-73   Freight and Passenger Loading Zones.
Sec. 8-74   Permits for Freight Loading Zones.
Sec. 8-75   Permanent Freight Loading Zones.
Sec. 8-76 and Sec. 8-77 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division XI. Through Streets.
Sec. 8-78   Through streets.
Sec. 8-79   Stop Signs.
Sec. 8-80   Four Way Stop Signs.
Sec. 8-81   Stop When Traffic Obstructed.
Sec. 8-82 and Sec. 8-83 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division XII. U-Turns.
Sec. 8-84   U-Turns Prohibited.
Sec. 8-85   Safety Belts.
Sec. 8-86   Exceptions.
Sec. 8-87 and Sec. 8-88 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division XIII. One Way Streets and Alleys.
Sec. 8-89   Authority to Post Signs.
Sec. 8-90   One Way Streets and Alleys.
Sec. 8-91 and Sec. 8-92 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division XIV. Speed Regulations.
Sec. 8-93   Speed Laws of State Statute Applicable-Exception.
Sec. 8-94   Special Speed Zones.
Sec. 8-95 and Sec. 8-96 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division XV. Penalties and Procedure on Arrest.
Sec. 8-97   Procedure on Arrest.
Sec. 8-98   Forms and Notices of Arrest or Appearance.
Sec. 8-99   Failure to Obey Notice or Summons.
Sec. 8-100   Notice of Illegally Parked Vehicles.
Sec. 8-101    Presumption in Reference to Illegal Parking.
Sec. 8-102 and Sec. 8-103 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division XVI. Fines and Forfeitures.
Sec. 8-104   Disposition of Traffic Fines and Forfeitures.
Sec. 8-105   Failure to Comply or Destroying Notice.
Sec. 8-106   Moving Offenses.
Sec. 8-107   Town Deferral Program.
Sec. 8-108 Through Sec. 8-114 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division XVII. Traffic Surveys and Authority to Post Temporary Signs.
Sec. 8-115   Surveys and Posting of Temporary Signs.
Sec. 8-116 Through Sec. 8-119 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division XVIII. Penalties, Severability, Short Title and Repeal.
Sec. 8-120   Penalties.
Sec. 8-121   Severability.
Sec. 8-122   Short Title.
Sec. 8-123   Repeal.
Sec. 8-124 Through Sec. 8-129 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division XIX. Schedules.
Sec. 8-130   Schedule 1 - Traffic Control Signals at Intersections.
Sec. 8-131   Schedule 2 - Parking Prohibited After Snow is Two (2) inches Deep.
Sec. 8-132   Schedule 3 - Parking Prohibited at All Times.
Sec. 8-133   Schedule 4 - Parking Time Limited on Certain Streets Two Hours -
8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
Sec. 8-134   Schedule 5 - Restricted Streets.
Sec. 8-135   Schedule 6 - Through Streets.
Sec. 8-136   Schedule 7 - Single Stop Streets.
Sec. 8-136A   Schedule 7A - Two Way Stop Streets.
Sec. 8-137   Schedule 8 - Three Way Stop Streets.
Sec. 8-138   Schedule 9 - Four Way Stop Streets.
Sec. 8-139   Schedule 10 - 15 M.P.H. Speed Zones.
Sec. 8-139A   Schedule 10A - 20 M.P.H. Speed Zones.
Sec. 8-139B   Schedule 10B - 30 M.P.H. Speed Zones.
Sec. 8-140   Schedule 11 - 35 M.P.H. Speed Zones.
Sec. 8-140A   Schedule 12 - 45 M.P.H. Speed Zones.
Sec. 8-141   Schedule 13 - One Way Streets.
Sec. 8-142   Schedule 14 - Secondary Arteries.
Sec. 8-143 Through Sec. 8-149 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. OTHER VEHICLES AND ROAD REGULATIONS.
   Division I. Fire Lanes.
Sec. 8-150   Fire Lanes - Definition and Marking.
Sec. 8-151   Designated Fire Lanes - Size and Markings.
Sec. 8-152   Penalties.
Sec. 8-153   Parking Prohibited by Building Fire Lanes - Penalty.
Sec. 8-154 and Sec. 8-155 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division II. Towing and Storage of Vehicles.
Sec. 8-156   Towing of Vehicles.
Sec. 8-157   Towing Contractors and Garage Keepers.
Sec. 8-158   Delivery of Vehicles Towed Due to a Public Safety Violation.
Sec. 8-159   Disposition of Unclaimed Impounded Vehicles.
Sec. 8-160   Fees and Charges.
Sec. 8-161   Towing Fee Schedule.
Sec. 8-162   Tow Release Services Fee.
Sec. 8-163 Through Sec. 8-164 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division III. Parking for the Disabled.
Sec. 8-165   Definitions.
Sec. 8-166   Designation of Handicapped Parking Spaces.
Sec. 8-167   Penalties.
Sec. 8-168   Business Establishments to Provide Handicap Parking-Penalties.
Sec. 8-169 Through Sec. 8-173 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division IV. Weight Limits.
Sec. 8-174   Weight Limits on Sheffield Avenue.
Sec. 8-175   Penalty.
Sec. 8-176   Ten (10) Ton Gross Weight Limit Streets.
Sec. 8-177   Exceptions Require Permit.
Sec. 8-178   Bond Requirements.
Sec. 8-179   Damage to Streets.
Sec. 8-180   Form of Temporary Permit
Sec. 8-181   Display of Permit.
Sec. 8-182   Penalty.
Sec. 8-183   Weight Limit on Keilman Street.
Sec. 8-184 Through Sec. 8-187 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division V. Miscellaneous Regulations.
Sec. 8-188   Driving on Sidewalk Prohibited.
Sec. 8-189   Parking Limitation for Parking Vehicles With Live Animals.
Sec. 8-190   Obedience and Stopping at Railroad Crossings.
Sec. 8-191   Non-moving Trains Prohibited from Blocking Streets at Railway
Crossings.
Sec. 8-192   Penalty.
Sec. 8-193   Turns.
Sec. 8-194   Through Sec. 8-200 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VI. Renaming Streets.
Sec. 8-201   Renaming Streets Within Pinewood Estates.
Sec. 8-202 Through Sec. 8-207 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VII. Local Roads and Streets.
Sec. 8-208   Acceptance of Local Roads and Streets.
Sec. 8-209 Through 8-214 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VIII. Vehicle Identification.
Sec. 8-215   Motor Vehicle Inspections Fees.
Sec. 8-216   and Sec. 8-217 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 1. REGULATIONS ADDRESSING OFF-ROAD VEHICLES AND MOTORIZED BICYCLES.
Sec. 8-1 Definitions and Interpretation.
   (a)   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      (1)   Motorized Bicycle.1 A bicycle with or without operable pedals and
an internal combustion engine or battery-powered motor which may be propelled
by human power or by an internal combustion engine or battery-powered motor, or
by both, and, when powered by an internal combustion engine, having a rating of
no more than one and five tenths (1.5) brake horsepower, and a cylinder
capacity not exceeding fifty (50) cubic centimeters, an automatic transmission,
and a maximum design speed of not more than twenty-five (25) miles per hour on
a flat surface.
      (2)   Off-Road Vehicle. Any motor driven vehicle capable of cross country
travel, without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, water,
snow, ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain. It includes, but is not
limited to, a multi-wheel drive or low pressure tire vehicle, amphibious
vehicle, ground effect air cushion vehicle, mini-bike, snowmobile, or other
means of transportation deriving motive power from a source other than muscle
or wind. It does not include a farm vehicle used for military or law
enforcement purposes, construction, mining, or other industrial related
vehicles used in performance of its common function or a registered aircraft.
      (3)   Operate.2 The word “operate” or any form or tense thereof shall
mean to ride in or on, to drive, to use, to put into action, cause to function,
or to be in actual physical control of a vehicle as defined herein.
      (4)   Operator.3 Any person who drives, operates, or is in actual
physical control of a vehicle defined herein.
      (5)   Owner.4 A person who holds the legal title of a vehicle, or in the
event a vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or
lease thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions
stated in the agreement, and with an immediate right of possession vested in
the conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of a vehicle is
entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the owner for the purposes of this article.
      (6)   Pedestrian. Any person afoot.
      (7)   Snowmobile. An off-road vehicle designed for travel primarily on
snow or ice, of any type, which utilizes sled type runners or skis, or an
endless belt tread or any combination of these or other similar means of
contact with the surface upon which it is operated. (Ord. No. 91-25, § 1, 10-8-
91; Ord. No. 95-21, 8-8-95)
                    
1   I.C., § 9-13-2-109, defines “motorized vehicle”.
2   I.C., § 9-13-2-117.5, defines “operate”.
3   I.C., § 9-13-2-118, defines “operator”.
4   I.C., § 9-13-2-121, defines “owner”.
Sec. 8-2 Regulations for Snowmobiles and Off-Road Vehicles. 5
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile or off-
road vehicle under the following circumstances:
      (1)   On private property of another without the express permission to do
so by the owner or occupant of said property.
      (2)   On public school ground, park property, playgrounds and
recreational areas without express provision or permission to do so by the
proper public authority and the execution of a waiver of liability form.
      (3)   On any street or sidewalk within the town; provided, however, that
the police department may authorize use of a snowmobile or off-road vehicle on
the public streets, highways, and rights-of-way within its jurisdiction during
emergencies when conventional motor vehicles cannot be used for transportation
due to snow or other extreme highway conditions.
      (4)   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise so
as to disturb or interfere with the reasonable peace and quiet of other
persons.
      (5)   In a careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger the
safety of any person or the property of any other person.
      (6)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor, fermented malt
beverages, or controlled substances on drugs.
   (b)   All snowmobiles and off-road vehicles operated within the town shall
have the following equipment:
      (1)   Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating the
vehicle and no person shall use a muffler cut out, bypass, or similar device on
said vehicle.
      (2)   Adequate brakes in good working condition and at least one
headlight and one taillight.
      (3)   A safety or-called “deadman” throttle in operating condition; a
safety or “deadman” throttle is defined as a device which when pressure is
removed from the accelerator or throttle causes a motor to be disengaged from
driving tract.
   (c)   It is unlawful for the owner or operator of a snowmobile or off-road
vehicle to leave or allow said vehicle to be or remain unattended on public
property while the motor is running or with the keys for starting the vehicle
left in the ignition. (Ord. No. 91-25, § 2, 10-8-91)
                        
5   I.C., § 14-1-3-1, et seq., addresses off-road vehicles including
snowmobiles.
Sec. 8-3 Violations.
   (a)   Motorized Bicycles:
      (1)   No person, including, but not limited to a parent, a child, a
teenager, or an adult shall violate any of the provisions of this article
relating to motorized bicycles, including, but not limited to, Sections
8-4,
8-5, and
8-6, as the same may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   No parent or guardian shall authorize or knowingly permit his or
her child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this article relating to
motorized bicycles, including, but not limited to, Section
8-4,
8-5, and
8-6, as the same may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Any person violating any section of this article, as set forth in
sub-paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) hereinabove, in lieu of being charged for said
violation in a Court of competent jurisdiction, may pay within five (5) days
after receiving notice of a violation to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, as Clerk of
the Town Violations Bureau, a fine in the sum of Fifty Dollars ($50.00). In the
event that this fine is not paid by a person notified of a violation of a
provision of this article within five (5) days after being notified and advised
of the violation and right to pay said fine to the Clerk of the Town Violations
Bureau in lieu of being charged, that person shall be charged with the
violation in a Court of competent jurisdiction. Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) of
the fine shall be deposited into the Town Law Enforcement Continuing Education
Fund (LECEF) for the purposes as set forth and permitted by the Town Code
Section
2-187 as amended from time to time. The remaining portion of the fine in the
amount of Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) shall be deposited to the Town General
Fund. Each offense of violation of this article shall be deemed a separate
offense, with separate fines for each as set forth herein. All such fines shall
be paid to the Local Ordinance Violations Bureau, administered by the Clerk-
Treasurer of the Town.
   (b)   Off-road vehicles.
      (1)   No person, including, but not limited to a parent, a child, a
teenager, or an adult shall violate any of the provisions of this article
relating to off-road vehicles, including, but not limited to, Sections
8-2 and
8-6, as the same may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   No parent or guardian shall authorize or knowingly permit his or
her child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this article relating to
off-road vehicles, including, but not limited to, Section
8-2 and
8-6, as the same may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Any person violating any section of this article, as set forth in
sub-paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) hereinabove, in lieu of being charged for said
violation in a Court of competent jurisdiction, may pay within five (5) days
after receiving notice of a violation to the Town Clerk-Treasurer, as Clerk of
the Town Violations Bureau, a fine in the sum of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00).
In the event that this fine is not paid by a person notified of a violation of
a provision of this article within five (5) days after being notified and
advised of the violation and right to pay said fine to the Clerk of the Town
Violations Bureau in lieu of being charged, that person shall be charged with
the violation in a Court of competent jurisdiction. Fifty Dollars ($50.00) of
the fine shall be deposited into the Town Law Enforcement Continuing Education
Fund (LECEF) for the purposes as set forth and permitted by Town Code Section
2-187 as amended from time to time. The remaining portion of the fine in the
amount of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) shall be deposited to the Town General Fund.
Each offense of violation of this article shall be deemed a separate offense,
with separate fines for each as set forth herein. All such fines shall be paid
to the Local Ordinance Violations Bureau, administered by the Clerk-Treasurer
of the Town.
(Ord. No. 91-25, § 3, 10-8-91; Am. Ord. No. 2000-14, 6-20-00; Am. Ord. No.
2001-17, § 1, 8-21-01)
Sec. 8-4 Traffic Regulations for Motorized Bicycles.
   (a)   Operators of motorized bicycles on a public highway or public path
shall be subject to the provisions of traffic laws of the state and the town
applicable to the operation of motor vehicles generally, subject to the special
regulations in this section, and excepting those provisions of the traffic laws
which by their nature can have no application.
   (b)   A motorized bicycle shall not be operated by any person under the age
of fifteen (15) years.
   (c)   Operators of a motorized bicycle shall obey the directions and
instructions of official traffic-control devices and signals, signs, and other
control devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (d)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or “U” turns are permitted, no persons operating a motorized bicycle shall
disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from
the vehicle to make such turn, in which event the person shall obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
   (e)   A person operating a motorized bicycle shall not drive, other than
upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor shall the operator
permit any passengers in excess of the number allowed for by the design and
number of seats of the vehicle.
   (f)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing, and the operator of
a motorized bicycle may not exceed the speed of twenty-five (25) miles per hour
or the speed limit, whichever is lesser.
   (g)   Every person operating a motorized bicycle shall drive as near to the
right hand side of the roadway as is possible, and in single file when passing
other vehicles, parked or moving, or any other considerable object on the
highway.
   (h)   The operator of a motorized bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway,
or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk, yield the right-of-way to all
pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering
the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles on the roadway close
enough to constitute a hazard.
   (i)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall attach the same or
himself to any vehicle upon a public highway or public path.
   (j)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry any package,
bundle, or article which prevents the operator from keeping both hands upon the
handlebars.
   (k)   Trick riding is prohibited. The hands of the operator of a motorized
bicycle shall be on the handlebars at all times, except while in the act of
signaling.
   (l)   No operator of a motorized bicycle shall cause or permit a motorized
bicycle to curve side to side.
   (m)   No person shall park a motorized bicycle in such a manner as to
interfere with the normal flow of pedestrian traffic, vehicular parking or
vehicular flow of traffic.
   (n)   The operation of motorized bicycles upon sidewalks is prohibited.
   (o)   Every motorized bicycle, operated on a public highway, during the
period from one-half hour after sunset until one-half hour before sunrise,
shall be equipped with a lamp on the front exhibiting a white light visible
from a distance of at least five hundred (500) feet to the front and with a
lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred
(500) feet to the rear. In lieu of such rear lighted red lamp on motorized
bicycles, a red reflector glass button not less than one and one-half (1½)
inches in diameter, or red reflecting tape of not less than four (4) square
inches may be mounted securely on the rear mudguard, or lacing a mudguard on
the rear of the saddle.
   (p)   No person shall ride a motorized bicycle unless it is equipped with a
horn or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of one
hundred (100) feet or more.
   (q)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will
enable the operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, or clean
pavement.
   (r)   Every person operating a motorized bicycle shall employ the use of
hand signals in the manner provided by state law for turning or changing lanes
if such vehicle is not equipped with a lighted turn signal device. (Ord. No.
91-25, § 4, 10-8-91)
Sec. 8-5 Reserved.
Sec. 8-6 Miscellaneous Rules and Regulations.
   (a)   No person shall board or alight from any off road vehicle or motorized
bicycle while such vehicle or bicycle is in motion, and no person shall alight
on the roadway side from any off road vehicle or motorized bicycle.
   (b)   No person shall ride on any off road vehicle or motorized bicycle upon
any portion thereof not designated or intended for the use of passengers.
   (c)   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall ride upon or
operate a motorized bicycle without:
      (1)   Wearing protective headgear meeting the standards established by
the United States Department of Transportation under 49 CFR 571.218 in effect
January 1, 1979; and
      (2)   Wearing protective glasses, goggles, or a transparent face shield.
(Ord. No. 91-25, § 6, 10-8-91)
Sec. 8-7 through Sec. 8-9 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. BICYCLE REGULATIONS. 6
                                          
6 I.C., § 9-13-2-4, defines bicycle and related equipment.
Sec. 8-10 Bicycle Usage Regulations.
   (a)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto; nor carry any other person upon
such bicycle otherwise than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon;
nor shall any person ride upon a bicycle, otherwise than as above stated.
   (b)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it was equipped.
   (c)   Any person upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates or toy vehicle
shall not attach the same or himself to any streetcar or vehicle upon a
roadway.
   (d)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
(2) abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles.
   (e)   No person riding a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping both hands upon the handlebars. (Ord. No.
903, § 1-5, 7-9-74)
Sec. 8-11 Equipment Requirements.
   (a)   Lamps: Every bicycle operating upon a highway from one-half hour after
sunset until one-half hour before sunrise, shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front exhibiting a white light visible from a distance of at least five hundred
(500) feet to the front and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of five hundred (500) feet to the rear; except that a
red reflector meeting the requirements of this section may be used in lieu of a
rear light.
   (b)   Brakes: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheels skid on a dry, level, clean pavement.
(Ord. No. 903, § 6, 7, 7-9-74)
Sec. 8-12 Compliance With Traffic Code. 7
   (a)   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be subject to the
provisions of the Traffic Code of the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, which
is made a part hereof by reference, except as to those provisions of that code
which by their nature can have no application to this ordinance.
   (b)   The operator of any bicycle upon any public highway shall observe each
and all of the regulations and requirements of the Uniform Act regulating
traffic on highways of the State Of Indiana and the rules of the road of the
State of Indiana as these apply to the usage of the right lane of the highway
in travel, the stoppage and proceeding in accord with traffic signals, and the
utilization of prescribed manual signs for the guidance of other traffic.
   (c)   The parent of any child and the guardian or any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this act.
   (d)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein. (Ord. No.
903, § 8-11, 7-9-74)
                                          
7 I.C., § 9-2-1-3, authorizes the regulation of bicycles including licensing
and registration fees.
Sec. 8-13 Reserved.
Sec. 8-14 Reserved.
Sec. 8-15 Penalty.
It is an ordinance violation for any person to do any act forbidden by this
ordinance or fail or perform any act by this ordinance. (Ord. No. 903, § 15, 7-
9-74)
Sec. 8-16 through Sec. 8-19 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. TRAFFIC CODE OF THE TOWN OF DYER.8
                     
8   I.C., § 9-21-1-2, authorizes local authorities to adopt by ordinance
additional traffic regulations.
Division I. In General.
Sec. 8-20 Definitions.
The words and phrases used in this ordinance shall have the same meaning and
definitions as defined in Indiana Code § 9-13-1-1, et seq. addressing
“definitions”. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. I, § 1, 4-1-81)
Division II. Enforcement and Obedience to Traffic Regulations.
Sec. 8-21 Authority of Police Department and Fire Department Officials.
It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department of this Town to
enforce the provisions of this Ordinance and all state laws applicable to
street traffic in this Town. The Chief of Police and his officers are
authorized to direct all traffic either in person or by means of visible or
audible signal in conformance with all traffic laws and ordinances, provided
that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department or Fire Department may
direct traffic, as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of
this Ordinance. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. II, § 1, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-22 Obedience to Personnel.
The Chief of Police and his officers are herein sometimes referred to as a
police officer and it shall be unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to
comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a Chief of Police, or
police officer, or fireman, when acting in accordance with Section
8-21. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. II, § 2, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-23 Permits for Parades.
No procession or parade, excepting the forces of the United States Army or Navy
or the Military Forces of the State of Indiana and the forces of the Police
Department and Fire Department, shall occupy, march or proceed along any street
except and in accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and such
other regulations as are set forth herein which apply. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art II,
§ 3, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-24 and Sec. 8-35 Reserved for Future Use.
Division III. Pedestrian Obedience to Traffic Signals.9
                     
9   I.C., §§ 9-21-17-1 through 9-21-17-24, address pedestrians.
Sec. 8-26 Pedestrians to Comply.
At intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control signals, the
movement of pedestrians shall be regulated by such traffic signals as
hereinafter set out.
   (a)   At intersection controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words “Go”, “Caution”, or “Stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively, pedestrians shall move as follows:
      (1)   Pedestrians facing a traffic control signal showing green or
exhibiting the word “Go” may proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked crosswalk.
      (2)   Pedestrians taking a traffic control signal exhibiting or showing
yellow or exhibiting the word “Caution” are advised that there is insufficient
time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to cross shall
yield the right-of-way.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing the traffic control signal showing red or
exhibiting the word “Stop” shall not enter the roadway unless it can be done
safely and without interfering with vehicular traffic.
   (b)   Pedestrian Walk and Wait Signal. Whenever pedestrian control signals
exhibiting the words “Walk” or “Wait” are in place such signals shall indicate
as follows:
      (1)   WALK - Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the
roadway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by
the drivers of all vehicles.
      (2)   WAIT or DON'T WALK - No pedestrians shall start to cross the
roadway in the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially
completed his crossing on the WALK signal shall proceed to a sidewalk while the
WAIT or DON'T WALK signal is showing. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. III, § 1, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-27 and 8-28 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IV. Method of Parking.
Sec. 8-29 Standing or Parking Close to Curb.
Except where angle parking is prohibited, no person shall stand or park a
vehicle on a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in
the direction of the lawful traffic movement and with the right hand wheels
within twelve (12) inches of the curb or the edge of the roadway, except as
otherwise provided in the following paragraph and in this Article. (Ord. No.
81-8, Art. IV, § 1(a), 4-1-81; Am. Ord. No. 2014-03, 4-10-14)
Sec. 8-30 Angle Parking Prohibited.
Angle parking in any area of the Town of Dyer is allowed only upon written
approval of the Town of Dyer Police Department, Town of Dyer Fire Department,
and the Town of Dyer Department of Public Works. Whenever a vehicle is lawfully
parked at night upon any street within a business or residence district, no
lights need be displayed upon such parked vehicle. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. IV, § 1
(b), 4-1-81; Am. Ord. No. 2014-03, 4-10-14)
Sec. 8-31 Through Sec. 8-32 Reserved for Future Use.
Division V. Miscellaneous Driving Rules.
Sec. 8-33 Funeral Processions. 10
   (a)   A funeral procession composed of vehicles may be identified as such by
the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a paint of the type designated
by the Chief of Police, or shall drive with headlights turned on.
   (b)   Each driver in a funeral procession shall drive as near to the right
hand edge of the roadway as practicable and safe.
   (c)   Each mortician shall notify the Police Department of the day and the
hour of each funeral procession to be had by him in the Town of Dyer together
with the proposed route thereof, as far ahead of the proposed time as possible.
(Ord. No. 81-8, Art. V, § 1, 4-1-81)
                       
10   I.C., §§ 9-21-13-1 through 9-21-13-7, address funeral processions.
Sec. 8-34 Driving Through Funeral Procession.
   (a)   No driver of a vehicle, except an emergency vehicle, shall drive
between the vehicles comprising a funeral procession or other authorized
procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously
designated as required in this ordinance.
   (b)   This provision shall not apply at an intersection where traffic is
controlled by a traffic-control signal or a police officer and shall not apply
to authorized emergency vehicles. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. V, § 2, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-35 Restrictions on Backing.
The driver of any vehicle shall not back such vehicle into an intersection or
over a crosswalk and shall not in any event or at any place back a vehicle
against the current of traffic, except to back into a parallel parking space of
to back out of a designated angle parking place. No vehicle shall be backed
over a public sidewalk except where necessary; and where it is necessary the
driver shall either sound his horn or halt before crossing the sidewalk. (Ord.
No. 81-8, Art. V, § 3, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-36 Vehicles Shall Not Be Driven on Sidewalk.
The driver of any vehicle shall not drive over any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway, or park within such area. No vehicle shall be
driven over or across the curb of any street except as above provided. (Ord.
No. 81-8, Art. V, § 4, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-37 Boarding or Alighting from Vehicles.
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion, and no person shall alight on the roadway side from any vehicle. (Ord.
No. 81-8, Art. V, § 5, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-38 Unlawful Riding.
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designed or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. V,
§ 6, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-39 Through Sec. 8-40 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VI. Traffic Control Devices.11
                 
11   I.C., §§ 9-21-4-1 through 9-21-4-19, address traffic control devices.
Sec. 8-41 Authority to Install Traffic Control Devices.
   (a)   The Chief of Police and Superintendent of Public Works pursuant to the
order of the Town Council shall cause to be placed and maintained traffic
control signs, signals, and devices when and as required under the traffic
ordinances of this Town to make effective the provisions of said ordinances.
   (b)   In the case of the identification and/or existence of a dangerous
traffic situation, as determined by the Chief of Police, he or she is hereby
authorized to install traffic control signs, signals and/or devices on a
temporary basis after collaboration with the Superintendent of Public Works and
until such time as the installation of said traffic control signs, signals and/
or devices can be approved by the Town Council.
      (1)   When a temporary traffic sign, signal or device is authorized to be
installed by the Chief of Police, he or she shall be required to provide a
written report with an accompanying recommendation to the Town Council
regarding the same. Said written report and recommendation shall be provided to
the Town Council no later than three (3) days after the installation of the
temporary traffic control device.
      (2)   The Town Council shall review the written report and recommendation
of the Chief of Police and shall take official action regarding said
recommendation at its next regularly scheduled public meeting. In no case shall
the recommendation of the Chief of Police regarding the temporary placement of
a traffic control device remain pending for longer than sixty (60) days without
official action approving or denying the recommendation by the Town Council.
(Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VI, § 1, 4-1-81; Am. Ord. No. 2002-07, 3-19-02)
Sec. 8-42 Manual and Specifications for Traffic Control Devices.
All Traffic Control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual and
specifications approved by the State Highway Commission. All signs and signals
required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be
uniform as to type and location throughout the Town. All traffic control
devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of State law or
this Ordinance shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VI, § 2, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-43 Obedience to Official Traffic Control Devices Located Within the Town
of Dyer and Within Construction Areas in the Town.
   (a)   The driver of every vehicle shall obey the instructions of any
official traffic control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance
with the ordinances of this Town, as amended from time to time, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (b)   The driver of every vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic
control devices including, but not limited to, signals, signs, warnings, and
all directions, signs, or warning devices that may be given or displayed by a
police officer or flagman to safely control traffic movement in a construction
area and to promote safety in the construction area.
   (c)   Any violation of the provisions of this Section is punishable by fines
and penalties in accordance with, and as provided by Sections
8-120, et. seq., and
2-221(c), as amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VI, § 3, 4-1-81; Am. Ord. No. 2001-18, § 1, 8-21-01)
Sec. 8-44 When Traffic Control Devices Are Required for Enforcement Purposes.
No provision of this Ordinance for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time of the alleged violation an official
sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an
ordinarily observant person.
(Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VI, § 4, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-45 Traffic Control Signal Legend.
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals, exhibiting the words
“Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively, the following colors only shall be used and said terms and lights
shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles as follows:
   (a)   GREEN alone or “GO” - Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed
straight through or turn right of left, unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. Vehicular traffic shall yield right-of-way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians, lawfully within the intersection at the time such signal is
exhibited.
   (b)   YELLOW or “CAUTION” - When shown with or following the green or “Go”
signal: Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop cannot be made, in
safety, vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
   (c)   RED alone or “STOP” - Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point
as may be indicated by a clearly visible line and shall remain standing until
GREEN or GO is shown.
   (d)   GREEN ARROW - Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously
enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk.
   (e)   In the event an official traffic-controlled signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of these
sections of this ordinance shall be applicable except as to those provisions
which by their very nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be
made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be
made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at
the signal.
   (f)   Traffic control signals shall be located at the intersections as
provided in Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VI, § 5, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-46 Flashing Signals.
Whenever flashing RED or YELLOW signals are used they shall require obedience
by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (a)   FLASHING RED or STOP SIGNAL - When a red light is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection of streets and/or streets and railroads or
at a limit line when marked, or if none, then before entering the intersection
and the right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable alter making
a stop at a stop sign.
   (b)   FLASHING YELLOW CAUTION SIGNAL - When a yellow light is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VI, § 7, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-47 Display of Unauthorized Signs, Signals or Markings.
   (a)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking of device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal. No person shall place or
maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway, any traffic
sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising. This shall not be
deemed to prohibit the erection upon private property adjacent to highways of
signs giving useful directional information and of a type that cannot be
mistaken for official signs.
   (b)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art.
VI, § 7, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-48 Interference With Official Traffic Control Devices or Railroad Signs
or Signals.
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to, or in fact, alter,
deface, injure, knock down, obscure, or remove any official traffic control
device, sign, or street name sign, or any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other part thereof.
Sec. 8-49 and Sec. 8-50 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VII. Stopping, Standing or Parking Restricted or Prohibited on Certain
Streets.
Sec. 8-51 Application of Division.
The provisions of this Article prohibiting the standing or parking of a vehicle
shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified and as indicated on
official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
an official traffic control device. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VII, § 1, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-52 Regulations Not Exclusive.
The provisions of this Division imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from a duty to observe other and more restrictive provisions
limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles in specified places or
at specified times. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VII, § 2, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-53 Special Regulations for Street Work and Snow Removal.
   (a)   WORK - The Superintendent of Public Works is given the power to post
temporary signs reading “No Parking-Street Work” along any street which he
intends to sweep, clear, or work within the succeeding twenty- four (24) hours.
The Superintendent of Public Works shall post every street that he intends to
work with said signs prior to 4:00 P.M. of the preceding day.
      All vehicles shall be removed before 7:00 A.M. of the day the street is
to be worked. Any vehicle which is illegally parked after 7:00 A.M. of the day
the street is to be worked may be towed away in the manner provided in
Division VII, Section
8-54 of this Traffic Code.
   (b)   SNOW REMOVAL - No person shall park any vehicle on any street within
the corporate limits of the Town of Dyer, whenever there is two (2) inches or
more of snow thereon, until said snow is removed. Any vehicle which is parked
on said streets when the depth of the snow exceeds two (2) inches, may be towed
away in the manner provided in
Division VII, Section
8-54 of this Traffic Code. (See Schedule 2) (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VII, § 3, 4-1-
81)
Sec. 8-54 Illegally Parked or Abandoned Vehicles.
Any motor vehicle found upon the streets, alleys or highways within the Town of
Dyer, Indiana, illegally parked or reasonably appearing to be abandoned may be
removed from said street, alley or highway, under the direction of the Chief of
Police, and be impounded in one (1) of the garages within or without the Town
of Dyer, or in a privately owned garage, as designated by the Chief of Police.
A notice shall be mailed by the Dyer Town Chief of Police by certified mail to
the registered owner if the car is not claimed within three (3) days. (Ord. No.
81-8, Art. VII, § 4, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-55 Parking on Private Property Prohibited.
No person shall drive, stop, stand or park a vehicle onto or upon privately
owned property or an area developed as an off-street parking facility without
the consent of the owner, lessee, or person in charge of such privately owned
property or facility. A violation of this Section shall place such vehicle in
the status of an illegally parked vehicle and upon complaint of the owner,
lessee, or person in charge of the privately owned property or facility, said
vehicle may be dealt with as described in
Division VII, Section
8-54 of this Ordinance. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VII, § 5, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-56 Impounding of Vehicles of Repeated Offenders. 12
Any motor vehicle found upon the streets or highways of the Town of Dyer,
Indiana having charged against the State license registration number of said
vehicle an accumulation of four (4) or more offenses may be removed for
impoundment in the manner described in Division VII, Sections
8-53 and
8-54 of this Ordinance. Should the owner of said vehicle appear to claim same,
he will be booked for appearance in a court having jurisdiction on all
outstanding offenses. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VII, § 6, 4-1-81)
                       
12   I.C., § 9-22-1-16, addresses towing vehicles.
Sec. 8-57 Towing and Storing Fees.
The owner of any motor vehicle removed and impounded pursuant to the terms of
Division VII, Sections
8-53 and
8-54 of this Ordinance may appear and claim said motor vehicle upon payment of
the towing and storage fees and presenting a release from the Dyer Police
Department, whereupon said vehicle shall be released to him or his authorized
representative. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VII, § 7, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-58 Storage of Vehicle.
Using streets for storage of vehicles or parking of vehicles for more than
ninety six (96) consecutive hours prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to park or cause to be parked any motor vehicle upon any street or
public highway in the Town of Dyer, Indiana, for a period longer than ninety
six (96) consecutive hours except as hereinafter provided.
Any person who desires to park a motor vehicle upon any street in the Town of
Dyer, Indiana, for a period of more than ninety six (96) consecutive hours
shall apply to the Chief of Police of the Town of Dyer, for a permit to do so.
The Chief of Police shall grant such permit only after determining that:
   (a)   The safety of the persons traveling on the street upon which it is
desired to park such motor vehicle will not be endangered, and
   (b)   The reason stated for parking a motor vehicle for more than ninety six
(96) consecutive hours is such that the granting of such permit is necessary
and reasonable, and
   (c)   A permit granted by the Chief of Police shall state the name of the
person seeking the permit, his address, the address at which the motor vehicle
shall be parked, the model, kind and registration place of the motor vehicle to
be parked, and the expiration date of said permit, and the reason therefor.
(Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VII, § 8, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-59 Parking Prohibited At All Times on Certain Streets.
When signs are erected giving notice thereof no person shall park a vehicle at
any time upon any of the streets described in Schedule 3 attached hereto and
made a part of this Ordinance. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VII, § 2, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-60 Parking Prohibited During Certain Hours on Certain Streets, Except
Sundays and Legal Holidays.
When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle on the streets where so posted between the hours specified on
said sign of any day, except Sundays and legal holidays. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art.
VII, § 10, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-61 Parking Time Limited on Certain Streets - to 15 Minutes - 3:00 A.M.
to 6:00 P.M.
When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than one (1) hour between the hours of 8:00 A.M.and
6:00 P.M. of any day, except Sunday and legal holidays, upon streets where
posted. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VII, § 11, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-62 Parking Time Limited on Certain Streets - Two Hours - 8:00 A.M. to 6:
00 P.M.
When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than two (2) hours between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and
6:00 P.M. of any day, except Sundays and legal holidays, within the district or
upon any of the streets described in Schedule 4 attached to and made a part of
this Ordinance. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VII, § 12, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-63 and Sec. 8-64 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VIII. Restricted Streets.
Sec. 8-65 Deliveries on Restricted Streets by Trucks.
From and after the taking effect of this Ordinance, all streets and alleys of
the Town of Dyer except those set out in Schedule 5 shall be designated as
Restricted Streets, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any truck
excepting trucks in the following three (3) categories:
   (a)   Those of less than five (5) tons rated capacity,
   (b)   House moving vans, and
   (c)   Construction vehicles, to drive upon same except for the purpose of
making a delivery business in the block in which such vehicle is being driven.
Any driver making such delivery shall enter same at the first intersection
nearest point of delivery and leave same at first intersection after such
delivery. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. VIII, § 1, 41-81)
Sec. 8-66 and Sec. 8-67 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IX. Stopping, Standing or Parking Prohibited in Specified Places.
Sec. 8-68 Stopping, Standing or Parking Prohibited - No Signs Required. 13
   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the law, or the
directions of a police officer, or traffic control device, in any of the
following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk.
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      3.   Within an intersection.
      4.   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant.
      5.   On a crosswalk.
      6.   Within twenty (20) feet of a crosswalk at an intersection.
      7.   Within thirty (30) feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty (30)
feet of points on a curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless
a different length has been indicated by signs or markings.
      9.   Within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of railroad crossing.
      10.   Within twenty (20) feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station.
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge of
or curb of a street.
      13. Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within
a highway tunnel.
      14. At any place where an official sign prohibits parking, stopping or
standing.
      15. Within fifty (50) feet of the center of the gate of any industrial
plant.
      16.   On a grass parkway located alongside or within a dedicated street
or right-of-way.
   (b)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb-such distance as is unlawful. (Ord.
No. 81-8, Art. IX, § 1, 4-1-81; Am. Ord. No. 2006-26, 12-20- 06)
                     
13   I.C., § 9-21-16-5, addresses stopping, standing and parking.
Sec. 8-69 Parking Not to Obstruct Traffic.
No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet of the width of the
roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. IX, § 2,
4-1-81)
Sec. 8-70 Parking in the Alleys.
No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet of space for vehicular
travel, and no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in
such position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. (Ord.
No. 81-8, Art. IX, § 3, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-71 and Sec. 8-72 Reserved for Future Use.
Division X. Freight and Passenger Loading Zones.
Sec. 8-73 Freight and Passenger Loading Zones.
For the purpose of alleviating acute traffic congestion the Chief of Police is
authorized to determine the location of temporary passenger and freight loading
zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and
stating the hours during which the provisions of this Section are applicable.
(Ord. No. 81-8, Art. X, § 1, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-74 Permits for Freight and Passenger Loading Zones.
The Chief of Police shall not hereafter designate or assign any freight and
passenger loading zone upon special request of any person, unless such person
makes application for a permit for such zone, and have two (2) signs to
indicate the ends of each zone. The Chief of Police upon granting a permit and
approving such signs, shall require the applicant to deposit with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, a fee of Five Dollars ($5.00) per year and may, by general
regulations, impose conditions upon the use of such signs and for reimbursement
by the Town for the value thereof in the event of their loss or damage. Every
such permit shall expire at the expiration of the time stated therein, not to
exceed ten (10) days over the one (1) year period. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. X, § 2,
4-1-81)
Sec. 8-75 Permanent Freight Loading Zones.
From and after the taking effect of this Ordinance the areas and portions of
streets and highways as shall be designated by the Chief of Police and as
posted shall be known as permanent freight loading zones, and no person shall
stop and park a vehicle for any purpose or for any period of time in any such
zone except for the expeditious loading or unloading of freight and
merchandise. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. X, § 3, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-76 and Sec. 8-77 Reserved for Future Use.
Division XI. Through Streets.
Sec. 8-78 Through Streets.
   (a)   Those streets and parts of streets designated in Schedule 6 attached
hereto and made a part of this Ordinance are declared to be through streets for
the purpose of this Section. Through streets shall have the right of way over
all other streets except intersecting through streets, in which case the State
Law governing right of way shall govern unless the right of way at said
intersection is governed by traffic signals or stop signs under this Ordinance.
   (b)   Whenever any Ordinance of this Town designates and describes a through
street, it shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public Works to place and
maintain a stop sign on each and every street intersecting such through street
unless otherwise provided by this Ordinance. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. XI, § 1, 4-1-
81)
Sec. 8-79 Stop Signs.
When stop signs are erected upon streets intersecting a through street at the
entrance thereto or at the entrance to any intersection designated in Schedule
7, attached hereto and made a part hereof, every driver of a vehicle shall stop
at every sign or at a clearly marked stop line before entering the
intersection. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. XI, § 2, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-80 Four Way Stop Signs.
When stop signs are erected upon all four streets at any intersection
designated in Schedule 8, attached hereto and made a part hereof, every vehicle
shall stop at every sign or at a clearly marked stop line before entering the
intersection. The first vehicle reaching an intersection shall, after stopping,
have the right of way to proceed. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. XI, § 3, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-81 Stop When Traffic Obstructed.
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. XI, § 4, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-82 and Sec. 8-83 Reserved for Future Use.
Division XII. U-Turns and Passenger Restraints.
Sec. 8-84 U-Turns Prohibited. 14
No driver of any vehicle shall make a U-TURN on any street or at any
intersection within the Town of Dyer. (Ord. No. 88-42, 9-13-88)
                           
14   I.C., § 9-21-8-19, addresses U-Turns.
Sec. 8-85 Safety Belts.
The regulation of the use of safety belts shall b e as directed by the statutes
of the State of Indiana. (Ord. No. 88-40, Art. XII, § 2, 8-16-88; Am. Ord. No.
2015-01, 3-12-15)
Sec. 8-86 Exceptions.
The terms of Section
8-85 do not apply to a front seat occupant who:
   (a)   for medical reasons should not wear safety belts;
   (b)   is required to be restrained under the child passenger restraint law
Indiana Code, § 9-8-13;
   (c)   is traveling in a commercial or a United States Postal Service vehicle
that makes frequent stops for the purpose of pickup or delivery of goods or
services;
   (d)   is a rural carrier of the United States Postal Service and is
operating a vehicle while serving a rural postal route;
   (e)   is a newspaper motor route carrier or newspaper bundle hauler who
stops to make deliveries from his vehicle; or
   (f)   is a driver examiner designated and appointed under Indiana Code, § 9-
1-4-35 and is conducting an examination an applicant for a permit or license
under Indiana Code, § 9-1-4- 34.1. (Ord. No. 88-40, Art. XII, § 3, 8-16-88)
Sec. 8-87 and Sec. 8-88 Reserved for Future Use.
Division XIII. One Way Streets and Alleys.15
                                 
15    I.C., § 9-21-4-14, addresses one way highways.
Sec. 8-89 Authority to Post Signs.
Whenever this ordinance designates any one-way street or alley, the Chief of
Police shall direct the placement of signs giving notice thereof, and no such
regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating
the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection
where movement of traffic is permitted in one direction only. (Ord. No. 81-8,
Art. XIII, § 1, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-90 One Way Streets and Alleys.
Upon those streets and alleys hereafter designated by the Town Council,
vehicles shall move only in the indicated direction of travel. (Ord. No. 81-8,
Art. XIII, § 2, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-91 and Sec. 8-92 Reserved for Future Use.
Division XIV. Speed Regulations.16
                      
16   I.C., § 9-21-1-2, authorizes local authorities to adopt local police
regulations regulating traffic.
Sec. 8-93 Speed Laws of State Statute Applicable-Exception.
The speed limits as set forth in the State Statutes shall be applicable upon
all streets within the Town of Dyer, except as this Ordinance, as authorized by
State Law, declares and determines upon the basis of engineering and/or traffic
investigation that certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon specified
streets, in which event it shall be prima facie unlawful for any person to
drive a vehicle in excess of any speed so declared in this Ordinance, when
signs are in place giving notice thereof. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. XIV, § 1, 4-1-
81)
Sec. 8-94 Special Speed Zones.
No driver of any vehicle shall exceed the prima facie speed limit or portions
thereof described in Schedules 10, 10A, 10B, 11 and 12 of Section 8. All
streets not listed in Schedules 10, 10A, 10B, 11, and 12 shall have a 25 m.p.h.
speed limit. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. XIV, § 2, 4-1-81; Am. Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-
15)
Sec. 8-95 and Sec. 8-96 Reserved for Future Use.
Division XV. Penalties and Procedure on Arrest.
Sec. 8-97 Procedure on Arrest.
Except when authorized or directed by State law to immediately take a person
arrested for a violation of any of the traffic laws of the State or of the
Ordinances of the Town of Dyer, before a Chief of Police or officer or other
law enforcement officer upon making an arrest for violation of the traffic laws
of the State or the Town, shall take the name and address and operator's
license number of the alleged violator, and the registration number of the
vehicle involved, and shall issue to him on the form prescribed in this
ordinance, a notice to answer to the charge against him, at a place and at a
time to be specified in the notice to appear. The officer upon receiving the
written promise to appear of the alleged violator, providing such violator is a
resident of the State of Indiana, shall release such person from custody. (Ord.
No. 81-8, Art. XV, § 1, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-98 Forms and Notices of Arrest or Appearance.
The Chief of Police shall provide suitable, serially numbered forms for
notifying violators to appear and answer to the charges of violating traffic
laws and ordinances. The Chief of Police shall report each month to the Town
Council the disposal made by his office of all arrest forms issued to them.
(Ord. No. 81-8, Art. XV, § 2, 4-1-81; Am. Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15)
Sec. 8-99 Failure to Obey Notice or Summons.
Any person who violates his written promise to appear given to any officer upon
an arrest for any traffic violation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor regardless
of the disposition of the charge of which he was originally charged. (Ord. No.
81-8, Art. XV, § 3, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-100 Notice of Illegally Parked Vehicle.
Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this Ordinance and other
ordinances relating to traffic, then the officer finding such vehicle shall
take its registration number and may take any other information displayed on
such vehicle which may identify its owner or user, and shall conspicuously
affix to such vehicle a notice in writing on a form provided by the Chief of
Police for the driver to answer to the charge against him within seventy two
(72) hours, during the hours and at the place specified in the notice. (Ord.
No. 81-8, Art. XV, § 4, 4-1-81; Am. Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15)
Sec. 8-101 Presumption in Reference to Illegal Parking.
In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing the
parking or standing of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described
in the notice to appear was parked in violation of any such law or regulation
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time
of such violation the registered owner of such vehicle, will constitute prima
facie evidence that such registered owner was the person who parked such
vehicle at the time and place and for the time during which such violation
occurred. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. XV, § 5, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-102 and Sec. 8-103 Reserved for Future Use.
Division XV. Fines and Forfeitures.
Sec. 8-104 Disposition of Traffic Fines and Forfeitures.
Any person, firm or corporation violating and found guilty by plea of any
portion of this Traffic Code of the Town of Dyer which regulates the use,
standing or parking vehicles upon streets, alleys, or other public places, may,
in lieu of being charged for such violation in Lake County Court, pay to the
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Dyer a penalty in an amount as set forth in
Section
2-221 of the Dyer Town Code. In addition, the violator shall be assessed court
costs and any other fees as shall be set and required by state statute. The
payment of fine shall be deposited in general fund of the town. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall forward court costs and any other state-mandated fees to the
Clerk of the Lake County Court for distribution in accordance with Indiana
State Statutes. Such penalties shall be paid within ten (10) days of the date
of the violation. Upon failure of the payment of the penalty herein prescribed
in accordance with the provisions hereof, such violators shall be charged
forthwith in the Lake County Court pursuant to State Law. (Ord. No. 88-40, Art.
XV, § 7, 8-16-88; Ord. No. 95-33, 12-12-95; Ord. No. 97-15, 8-12-97)
Sec. 8-105 Failure to Comply or Destroying Notice.
   (a)   If a violator of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking
under this Ordinance or other ordinances relating to traffic of this Town, does
not appear in response to the notice affixed to such vehicle, a complaint shall
be filed and a warrant of arrest issued.
   (b)   No person, whether the recipient thereof or otherwise, shall willfully
throw away, alter, mar, mutilate, destroy, or discard the written notice
described in this Ordinance.
(Am. Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15)
Sec. 8-106 Moving Offenses.
Whenever a person commits a violation of any moving offense on a State Highway
within the Town, then the prosecution shall be under the applicable state
statute, if any, and not under the provisions of this Ordinance. In all other
cases, violators of the provisions of this Ordinance shall be charged and
prosecuted under this Ordinance.
Sec. 8-107 Town Deferral Program.
   (a)   The Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, hereby establishes a Town
Deferral Program pursuant to I.C. § 34-28-5-1, and amended from time to time,
to be known as the “Town Deferral Program.”
   (b)   An individual who has been issued a citation for a moving traffic
violation in the Town of Dyer shall be eligible to participate in the Town
Deferral Program if the individual:
      1.   Has not been charged with a moving traffic violation that is
associated with property damage, personal injury, or other related criminal
charges;
      2.   Has not been charged with any other moving violation in any state
within the last year; and
      3.   Has not been charged with an offense of speeding in excess of thirty
(30) miles per hour over the posted speed limit.
   (c)   An individual who is eligible and seeks to participate in the Town
Deferral Program (hereinafter “Applicant”) shall complete the Town Deferral
Program Application Agreement located in the Town Police Department. The Town
Police Department shall verify that the Applicant is eligible for the Town
Deferral Program.
   (d)   1.   At the time of the application submission, the Applicant shall
pay for the following:
         a.   Current Court costs, pursuant to the provisions of Indiana Code,
as amended from time to time;
         b.   An initial user fee of $52.00; and
         c.   Monthly user fees of $10.00 per month of each of the six (6)
months the Applicant is in the Town Deferral Program.
      2.   The total amount of the Court costs and fees identified above shall
be made payable to the “Clerk, Lake Superior Court” in the form of a certified
check, money order, or cashier’s check. The fees paid by the Applicant are non-
refundable and shall not be applied to the fine in the event that the Applicant
fails to properly and successfully follow and complete the requirements of the
Town Deferral Program. The Court costs shall be distributed as required for
traffic violations. The initial user fee and monthly user fees shall be
deposited in the Police Department Special Revenue Fund upon proper processing.
   (e)   The Town Police Department shall file the Applicant’s citation with
the Lake County Court. After assignment of a cause number and at the next
regularly scheduled Town Court date, the Town Attorney shall file the executed
Deferral Program Application Agreement in the Lake County Court together with
the Court costs and fees. The Town Police Department shall review the
Applicant’s driving record six (6) months after the filing of said Agreement
(hereinafter “Review Period”). In the event that no new moving traffic
violations have been issued to the Applicant, the Town Attorney shall dismiss
the original moving traffic violation citation. In the event that the Applicant
has been issued a moving traffic violation citation within the Review Period,
or otherwise does not comply with terms of the Town Deferral Program, the Town
Attorney shall institute further proceedings against the Applicant based upon
the original citation.
   (f)   The Town Attorney, Town Police Department, and Town Clerk-Treasurer
are hereby authorized to develop the appropriate forms and related materials
necessary to facilitate the Town Deferral Program.
(Ord. No. 2008-09, §§ 1- 6, 8-20-08)
Sec. 8-108 through Sec. 8-114 Reserved for Future Use.
Division XVI. Traffic Surveys and Authority to Post Temporary Signs.
Sec. 8-115 Surveys and Posting of Temporary Signs.
Whenever the Chief of Police and the Town Council of the Town of Dyer, in the
course of the traffic study deem it advisable to delete or to add other streets
to the schedules attached to this Ordinance they may do so on a temporary basis
and such streets and locations, when posted by signs, shall be deemed for said
temporary period to be incorporated within the terms of this Ordinance, and
persons violating the same shall be deemed guilty of an offense as if they were
incorporated within the respective sections scheduled herein. (Ord. No. 81-8,
Art. XVI, § 1, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-116 through Sec. 8-119 Reserved for Future Use.
Division XVII. Penalties, Severability, Short Title and Repeal.
Sec. 8-120 Penalties.
Any person violating one or more of the provisions of this Ordinance shall upon
conviction before any court of law, pay a fine of not less than One Dollar
($1.00) or more than Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,500.00) Dollars for
each offense. Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
The Dyer Chief of Police after consultation with the Dyer Metropolitan Police
Commission and the Dyer Town Council, shall have the authority, at his option,
to designate to the Dyer Town Attorney the amount of any fine to be requested
of the Court in any matter of the trial of any violation of this Ordinance in
which the defendant is found liable. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. XVII, § 1, 4-1-81;
Am. Ord. 97-7, 3-11-97)
Sec. 8-121 Severability.
If any Section, Subsection, sentence, clause or portion of this Ordinance is
held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The Town
Council declares that it intended this Ordinance to be severable. (Ord. No. 81-
8, Art. XVII, § 2, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-122 Short Title.
This Ordinance may be known and cited as the Traffic Code of the Town of Dyer,
Indiana. (Ord. No. 81-8, Art. XVII, § 3, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-123 Repeal.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with or inconsistent with the
provisions of this Ordinance are repealed, except that this repeal shall not
affect or prevent the prosecution or punishment of any person for the violation
of any Ordinance, repealed, prior to the taking effect of this Ordinance. (Ord.
No. 81-8, Art. XVII, § 4, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-124 through Sec. 8-129 Reserved for Future Use.
Division XVIII. Schedules.
Sec. 8-130 Schedule 1-Traffic Control Signals at Intersections.
Pursuant to Section
8-4, et seq., the following traffic control signals as intersections are
designated:
   (1)   U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet St.) and Hart St.
   (2)   U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet St.) and Great Lakes Drive.
   (3)   Sheffield Avenue at 213th Street.
   (4)   U.S. 30 and Calumet Avenue.
   (5)   U.S. 30 and Meredith Way.
   (6)   Calumet Avenue and 213th Street.
   (7)   Calumet Avenue and Harrison Avenue.
   (8)   Sheffield Avenue and 81st Avenue. (Ord. 81-8, Schedule 1, 4-1-81; Am.
Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15)
Sec. 8-131 Schedule 2 - Parking Prohibited After Snow is Two Inches Deep.
Pursuant to Section
8-53 et seq, all streets in the Town of Dyer shall have parking prohibited
thereon after snow is two (2) inches deep. (Ord. 81-8, Schedule 2, 4-1-81)
Sec. 8-132 Schedule 3 - Parking Prohibited at All Times.
Pursuant to Section
8-59, parking is prohibited at all times in the following areas:
   (1)   In front of public buildings when signs or curb markings so prohibit.
   (2)   Any place where signs or curb markings indicate.
   (3)   West side of Hart Street from U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street) north to
Keilman Street.
   (4)   77th Avenue (Novak Road) from Hart Street to east limits of Town of
Dyer.
   (5)   U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street) both sides from a point 1,040 feet
west of Hart Street at the Indiana/Illinois State Line to a point 1,000 feet
east of the CSX Railroad.
   (6)   South side of Carnation Street from Sheffield Avenue to Lake Street.
   (7)   South side of Fagan Street from Hart Street, east to the alley.
   (8)   East side of Hart Street from U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street) to
Schulte Street.
   (9)   Northgate Park on the north side of Northgate Drive.
   (10)   Pheasant Hills Park on the east side of Hart Street from its southern
boundary to Greiving Street. (Ord. 81-8, Schedule 3, 4-1-81)
   (11)   North side of Keilman Street from Hart Street to Church Street.
   (12)   South side of Keilman Street from Hart Street east to alleyway.
   (13)   North side of Mary Street from Hart Street to Andrew Drive.
   (14)   East side of Andrew Drive from Mary Street to Cherry Hill Road.
   (15)   East side of Hart Street from Fagen Street to Keilman Street except
for one (1) handicapped parking space to be designated by the Town.
   (16)   South side of Park Manor Drive from Hart Street to 125 feet west of
the intersection of Hart Street and Park Manor Drive.
   (17)   North side of Park Manor Drive from Hart Street to 125 feet west of
the intersection of Hart Street and Park Manor Drive.
   (18)   South side of Berens Street from Hart Street to 125 feet west of the
Indiana section of Hart Street and Berens Street.
   (19)   North side of Berens Street from Hart Street to 125 feet west of the
intersection of Hart Street and Berens Street.
   (20)   South side of Plum Creek Drive from Hart Street west to the end of
Plum Creek Drive.
   (21)   North side of Plum Creek Drive from Hart Street to 90 feet west of
the intersection of Hart Street and Plum Creek Drive.
   (22)   West side of Wellington from Main Street to 30 feet south of the
intersection of Main Street and Wellington.
   (23)   North side of Harrison Place from Calumet Avenue to 130 feet west of
the intersection of Calumet Avenue and Harrison Place.
   (24)   South side of Harrison Place from Calumet Avenue to 104 feet west of
the intersection of Calumet Avenue and Harrison Place.
   (25)   North side of Harrison Place from Calumet Avenue to 30 feet east of
the intersection of Calumet Avenue and Harrison Place.
   (26)   South side of Harrison Place from Calumet Avenue to 30 feet east of
the intersection of Calumet Avenue and Harrison Place.
   (27)   South side of Greiving Street from Hart Street to 50 feet east of the
intersection of Greiving Street and Hart Street.
   (28)   East side of Northwinds Drive from U.S. 30 to Fairview Drive.
   (29)   West side of Northwinds Drive from U.S. 30 to 220 feet north of U.S.
30.
   (30)   West side of Great Lakes Drive from U.S. 30, north 22 feet.
   (31)   East side of Great Lakes Drive from US 30 to Fairview Lane.
   (32)   Pleasant Springs Drive from Fairview Lane to Greenleaf Street
(including roundabout).
   (33)   East side of Lake Street from US 40 to Keilman Street.
   (34)   Sunnyside Avenue from US 30, north 157 feet.
   (35)   North side of Central Park Boulevard from Calumet Avenue to the Dyer
Department of Public Works’ entrance.
   (36)   On the north and south sides of Fairview Drive within 200 feet of the
intersection with Great Lakes Drive.
(Ord. No. 2006-26, 12-20-06; Am. Ord. No. 2007-12, 6-20-07; Am. Ord. No. 2010-
16, 12-1-10; Am. Ord. No. 2011-04, 5-19-11; Am. Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15; Am.
Ord. 2017-06, 7-13-17; Am. Ord. 2017-09, 10-12-17)
Sec. 8-133 Schedule 4 - Parking Time Limited on Certain Streets Two Hours - 8:
00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M.
Pursuant to Section
8-62, the following parking limits are established:
   (a)   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person
shall park a motor vehicle for longer than two (2) hours between the hours of
8:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M. of any day, except Sundays and Holidays, upon either
side of the following streets:
      (1)   Hart Street from Matteson to Schulte Street.
      (2)   Gettler Street from U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street) South to Stech
Street.
      (3)   West side of Hart Street from U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street) south
to Schulte Street.
      (4)   North side of Fagan Street from Hart Street east to the alley.
(Ord. 81-8, Schedule 4, 4-1-81)
      (5)   Reserved.
      (6)   Reserved.
      (7)   Reserved.
      (8)   Reserved.
      (9)   Reserved.
      (10)   Reserved.
Sec. 8-134 Schedule 5 - Restricted Streets (Heavy Duty Streets).
The following streets will be designated as heavy duty roads for the purpose of
making a delivery or carrying on business as prescribed in
Division VIII, Section
8-65:
   (1)   Sheffield Avenue
   (2)   Hart Street.
   (3)   Matteson Street.
   (4)   213 Street.
   (5)   Main Street.
   (6)   77th Avenue (Novak Road). (Ord. 81-8, Schedule 5, 4-1-81)
   (7)   U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street).
   (8)   Reserved
   (9)   Reserved.
   (10) Reserved.
Sec. 8-135 Schedule 6 - Though Streets.
Pursuant to Section
8-78, the following are declared through streets:
   (1)   U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street).
   (2)   213th Street.
   (3)   Sheffield Avenue
   (4)   Hart Street.
   (5)   Matteson Street.
   (6)   Lakewood Drive.
   (7)   Lake Street.
   (8)   Edgewood Drive.
   (9)   Enslen Drive.
   (10)   Harrison Avenue.
   (11)   Forest Park Drive.
   (12)   Nondorf Street.
   (13)   Greiving Street.
   (14)   Magnolia Avenue.
   (15)   Greenwood Avenue.
   (16)   77th Avenue (Novak Road).
   (17)   James Drive.
   (18)   Northgate Drive.
   (19)   Jackson Place.
   (20)   Osage Drive.
   (21)   Cherry Hill Road.
   (22)   Monticello Drive.
   (23)   Hickory Drive.
   (24)   Main Street.
   (25)   Deercreek Drive.
   (26)   Flagstone Drive.
   (27)   Castlewood Drive.
   (28)   Calumet Avenue.
   (29)   Madison Avenue.
   (30)   Sycamore Drive.
   (31)   Howard Castle Drive.
   (32)   Knighthood Drive.
   (33)   Hillcrest Drive.
   (34)   Lancelot Lane.
   (35)   Great Lakes Drive. (Ord. No. 81-8, Schedule 6, 4-1-81; Am. Ord. No.
2015-01, 3-12-15)
Sec. 8-136 Schedule 7 - Single Stop Streets.
Pursuant to Section
8-79, the following STOP streets are declared:
STREET         STOP FOR:
Enslen Drive         Frances Place
Janet Place         Edgewood Drive
Quinn Drive         Edgewood Drive
James Drive         Blaney Drive
Roy Street          James Drive
Frances Place      Edgewood Drive
Janet Place         Enslen Drive
Peachtree Court      Peachtree Lane
Aspen Drive         Sycamore Drive
Dogwood Drive      Sycamore Drive
Heather Lane      Sycamore Drive
Heather Lane      Hart Street
Chateau Lane      Hart Street
77th Avenue         Hart Street
Deertrail Lane      Hart Street
Brighton Lane      Hart Street
Plum Creek Drive      Hart Street
Ginger Court         Trillium Drive
Primrose Drive      Orchid Drive
Primrose Drive      Hart Street
Lily Lane         Stargrass Lane
Valleyview Lane      81st Street
Austgen Place      81st Street
Austgen Place      Hoffman Court
Hoffman Court      Hilbrich Court
Harvest Lane         Harvest Drive
Hawthorne Lane      Summerhill Drive
Hawthorne Lane      Summerhill Drive
Autumn Lane         Summerhill Drive
Cottonwood Drive      Cherry Hill Road
Cottonwood Drive      Hickory Drive
Peachtree Lane      Cherry Hill Road
Wells Court         Hickory Drive
Jacobs Court         Hickory Drive
Graegin Place      Hickory Drive
Edgewood Drive      Schilling Drive
Osage Court         Osage Drive
Andrew Court      Cherry Hill Road
Sycamore Drive      Hillside Drive
Scotty Lane          Sycamore Drive
Willow Lane          Sycamore Drive
Summerhill Drive      Hillcrest Drive
Deertrail Drive      Hillcrest Drive
Autumn Lane         Deertrail Drive
Hawthorne Lane      Deertrail Drive
Deertrail Drive      Forest Park Drive
Chateau Drive      Forest Park Drive
Ridgewood Lane      Forest Park Drive
Wood Drive         Ridgewood Lane
Chateau Lane      Hillcrest Drive
Schmidt Drive      Hillcrest Drive
Hillcrest Drive      Margraf Court
Margraf Court      Hart Street
Cherry Hill Road      Hart Street
Tulip Tree Lane      Cherry Hill Road
Red Oak Drive      Sycamore Drive
Red Oak Drive      Cherry Hill Road
Pheasant Hills Park      Greiving St./Nondorf St.
Henry Street         Moeller Street
Moeller Street      Greiving Street
John Burge Lane      hart Street
Gettler Street         U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street)
John Burge Lane      Gettler Street
Illinois Street          Lake Street
Clark Road         U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street)
Norma Lane         U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street)
Norma Lane         Richard Road
Richard Road      Calumet Avenue
Foliage Lane         Richard Road
Richard Road      Great Lakes Drive
Old Beach Road      Calumet Avenue
Flint Court         Old Beach Road
Boulder Road      Old Beach Road
Rolling Hills Drive      Old Beach Road
Old Beach Road      Foliage Lane
Flat Rock Road      Boulder Road
Dune Sand Court      Rolling Hills Drive
Flat Rock Road      Arrowhead Drive
Rolling Hills Drive      Arrowhead Drive
Arrowhead Drive      Sandy Ridge Road
Tomahawk Road      Sandy Ridge Road
Sandy Ridge Court      Sandy Ridge Road
Fossil Stone Road      Tomahawk Road
Sandy Ridge Road      Fossil Stone Road
Fossil Stone Road      Granite Drive
Galahad Court      Knighthood Drive
Tower Court         Knighthood Drive
Castlewood Drive      Knighthood Drive
Calumet Avenue      77th Avenue
Lancelot Lane      Canterbury Court
Squire Drive         Knighthood Drive
Squire Court         Knighthood Drive
Howard Castle Drive      77th Avenue
Donnet Court         Howard Castle Drive
Prince Drive         Camelot Drive
Prince Drive         Howard Castle Drive
Lancelot Lane      Queens Drive
Perry Court         Castlewood Drive
Kelly Place         Kings Court
Kings Court         Castlewood Drive
East Valley Place      Castlewood Drive
Castlewood Drive      U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street)
North Winds Drive      U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street)
Flagstone Drive      Jewel Property
Rockwell Lane      Flagstone Drive
Portrait Place       Flagstone Drive
Saturday Evening Avenue      Great Lakes Drive
North Winds Drive      Dalemont Way
Greenleaf Street       Ferndale Drive
Stillwater Avenue      Pleasant Springs Lane
West Ridge Drive      Stillwater Avenue
Dalemont Way      Stillwater Avenue
Flagstone Drive      Hearthstone Lane
Ludington Lane      Manistee Avene (Schererville)
Ludington Lane      213th Street
215th Street         Magnolia Avenue
Kaiser Drive         Briar Crossing Drive
Briar Ridge Exit      213th Street
Berkley Drive         212th Place
Berkley Drive         212th Place
Wildflower Lane      Heritage Lane
211th Street         Harrison Avenue
210th Street         Calumet Avenue
209th Street         Jackson Place
Kensington East      Briarwood Drive
Eastern Avenue      205th Place
Eastern Avenue      206th Place
Barberry Place      Tyler Avenue
Seminary Drive      Sheffield Avenue
Old Farm Road      Sheffield Avenue
Blue Jay Way      Old Farm Road
Robin Court         Old Farm Road
Sunflower Lane      Old Farm Road
Rose Bush Lane      Old Farm Road
Meadow Lark      Seminary Drive
Cardinal Court      Seminary Drive
Oriole Court         Blue Jay Way
Blue Jay Way      Seminary Drive
Oak Street         School Property
Elm Street         School Property
Pleasant Springs Lane    Westridge Drive
Stargrass Lane      Sheffield Avenue
Monaldi Parkway      Schimdt Drive
Park Manor Drive      Hart Street
Berens Street      Hart Street
Scotty Lane         Hart Street
Osage Drive          Hart Street
Mary Street          Hart Street
Park Manor Drive       Hart Street
Greiving Street       Hart Street
Stech Street          Hart Street
Schulte Street       Hart Street
Portrait Place       Great Lake Drive
Autumn Court      Flagstone Drive
Summertime Court      Flagstone Drive
Summertime Court      Flagstone Drive
Fairview Drive       Great Lake Drive
Springtime Court        Flagstone Drive
Stillwater Avenue       Westridge Drive
Georgia Avenue       Fairview Drive
Corinne Drive       Fairview Drive
Ferndale Drive       Dalemont Way
Swan Drive          Seminary Drive
Keilman Street       Lake Street
Lake Street          U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street)
Illinois Street          Lake Street
Indiana Street       Hart Street
Sunnyside Avenue       U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street)
Matteson Street       Lake Street
Church Street       U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street)
Sandcastle Drive       Calumet Ave
Foliage Lane       Arrowhead Drive
Great Lakes Drive       Catherine Drive
Heritage Drive       Sheffield Avenue
Elm Street          Nondorf Street
Oak Street          Nondorf Street
Nondorf Street      U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street)
Moeller Street      U.S. Highway 30 (Joliet Street)
Henry Street         Moeller Street
Jackson Avenue      213th Place
213th Place         Madison Avenue
Carnation Street      Sheffield Avenue
Aster Street         Lake Street
Cedar Lane         Monticello
Kentwood Drive      Cedar Lane
Roanoke Court      Heritage Drive
Cedar Lane         Heritage Drive
Richmond Court      Heritage Drive
Sunnybrook Avenue   215th Street
East End Avenue      215th Street
Edmond Drive      Sheffield Avenue
Harrison Avenue      Edmund Drive
Devon Drive         Harrison Avenue
Coral Drive         Harrison Avenue
Belden Drive         Harrison Avenue
Avalon Drive         Harrison Avenue
215th Street          Madison Avenue
214th Street          Madison Avenue
214th Street          Harrison Avenue
213th Place          Harrison Avenue
Jodi Court          Cedar Lane
Lexington Drive      Cedar Lane
Lexington Drive      Cambridge Lane
Lexington Drive      Monticello Drive
Concord Court      Cambridge Lane
Cambridge Court      Heritage Drive
Ivanhoe Lane      Wellington Drive
Wellington Drive      Main Street
Lancaster Lane      Wellington Drive
Hanover Lane      Wellington Drive
Stratford Lane      Briarwood Drive
Hanover Lane      Briarwood Drive
Briarwood Drive      Lancaster Lane
Devonshire Lane      Briarwood Drive
209th Court          Northgate Drive
209th Court          Northgate Drive
Matteson Sterr      Sheffield Avenue
212th Place          Harrison Avenue
Jackson Avenue      212th Place
21th Street          Madison Avenue
Jackson Place      211th p1ace
211th Place          Madison Avenue
210th Place          Jackson Place
210th Place          Jackson Avenue
210th Street          Jackson Place
Polk Avenue          Northgate Drive
Filmore Avenue       Main Street
Jackson Avenue       Harrison Avenue
Harrison Place       Northgate Drive
Harrison Place       Jackson Place
Northgate Drive      210th Street
Audrey Court       Harrison Ave
(Ord. No. 81-8, Schedule 7, 4-1-81; Am. Ord. No. 2006-26, 12-20-06; Am. Ord.
No. 2015-01, 3-12-15; Am. Ord. 2017-07, 7-13-17; Am. Ord. No. 2022-28, § 1, 11-
16-22)
Sec. 8-136A Schedule 7A - Two Way Stop Streets.
The following two way stop streets are declared:
   (1)   Prairie Drive and Stargrass Lane
   (2)   Buttercup Lane and Violet Lane
   (3)   Hart Street and High Point Trail
   (4)   Hart Street and Fagen Street
   (5)   215th Street and Sheffield Avenue
   (6)   215th Street and Rokosz Lane
   (7)   215th Street and Rosemary Court
   (8)   Briar Crossing and Stommel Place
   (9)   Briar Crossing Drive and Seberger Way
   (10)   213th Street and Madison Avenue
   (11)   213th Street and Jackson Avenue
   (12)   213th Street and Harrison Avenue
   (13)   Monticello Drive and Lake Street
   (14)   Kentwood Drive and Kentwood Court and Heritage Drive
   (15)   Harrison Avenue and Audrey Court
   (16)   Northgate Drive and Jackson Court
   (17)   Meadow Lark and Sunflower Lane
   (18)   Seminary Drive and Eagle Court
   (19)   Rose Bush Lane and Daffodil Court
   (20)   Westridge Way at Dalemont Way
   (21)   Dalemont Way at Pleasant Springs Lane
   (22)   Peschel Court and High Point Trail
   (23)   Fairview Drive and Pleasant Springs Lane
   (24)   Hart Street and Keilman Street
   (25)   Hart Street and Illinois Street
   (26)   Corinne Drive and Rockview Road
   (27)   Central Park Boulevard and Calumet Avenue
   (28)   Fairview Drive and Pleasant Springs Lane
   (29)   Grunewald Place and Pleasant Springs Lane
   (30)   Dalemont Way and Pleasant Springs Lane
   (31)   205th Place and Filmore Avenue
   (32)   Kensington East and Briarwood Drive
(Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15; Am. Ord. 2017-07, 7-13-17; Am. Ord. No. 2022-28, §
1, 11-16-22)
Sec. 8-137 Schedule 8-Three Way Stops.
Pursuant to Section
8-79 et seq., the following three way stops are declared:
   (1)   South Street at Forest Park Drive.
   (2)   Lakewood Drive at South Street.
   (3)   Blaney Drive at 77th Street.
   (4)   Edgewood Drive at 77th Street.
   (5)   Lakewood Drive at Park Manor Drive.
   (6)   Northgate Drive at Tyler Avenue. (Ord. No. 81-8, Schedule 9, 4-1-81)
   (7)   Boulder Road at Calumet Avenue.
   (8)   Quinn Place at Enslen Drive.
   (9)   Calumet Avenue and Arrowhead Drive.
   (10)   Castlewood Drive at Queens Lane.
   (11)   Schmidt Drive at Lakewood Drive.
   (12)   Forest Park Drive at Schmidt Drive.
   (13)   Hickory Drive at Cherry Hill Road.
   (14)   Hickory Drive at Osage Drive.
   (15)   Harrison Avenue at Northgate Drive.
   (16)   Fillmore Avenue at Northgate Drive
   (17)   Van Buren Avenue at 211th Street.
   (18)   Tulip Tree Lane at Osage Drive.
   (19)   James Drive at Osage Drive
   (20)   Greenwood Avenue at 213th Street.
   (21)   Devonshire Lane at Wellington Drive.
   (22)   Stratford Lane at Wellington Drive.
   (23)   206th Street at Fillmore Avenue.
   (24)   206th Place and Fillmore Avenue
   (25)   Kennsington East and Wellington Drive
   (26)   Van Buren Avenue and Harrison Avenue
   (27)   Meadow Lark and Rose Bush Lane
   (28)   Capri Lane and Ivy Lane
   (29)   Forest Park Drive and Berens Street
   (30)   Ridgewood Lane and Ridgewood Court
   (31)   Ridgewood Lane and Hillcrest Drive
   (32)   Forest Park Drive and Beirlger Drive
   (33)   Hillcrest Drive and Beirlger Drive
   (34)   Deertrail Drive and Windhill Lane
   (35)   Summerhill Drive and Windhill Lane
   (36)   Harvest Lane and Stone Ridge Drive
   (37)   Maryann Lane and High Point Trail
   (38)   Harvest Lane and Crestview Drive
   (39)   Harvest Lane and Valleyview Lane
   (40)   Chateau Drive and Wood Drive
   (41)   Brighton Lane and Brampton Lane
   (42)   High Point Trail and Austgen Place
   (43)   Orchid Drive and Coneflower Drive
   (44)   Prairie Drive and Coneflower Drive
   (45)   Laurel Drive and Osage Drive
   (46)   Laurel Drive and Laurel Court
   (47)   Laurel Drive and James Drive
   (48)   Calumet Avenue and Knighthood Drive
   (49)   Camelot Drive and Knighthood Drive
   (50)   Howard Castle Drive and Knighthood Drive
   (51)   Calumet Avenue and Granite Drive
   (52)   Calumet Avenue and Tomahawk Road
   (53)   Corinne Drive and Dalemont Way
   (54)   213th Street and Briar Crossing Drive
   (55)   Greenwood Avenue and Meadow Lane Avenue
   (56)   Greenwood Avenue and 215th Street
   (57)   Great Lakes Drive and Flagstone Drive
   (58)   Orchid Drive and Indigo Drive
   (59)   Great Lakes and Saturday Evening Drive
   (60)   Deertrail Drive and Forest Park Drive
   (61)   Sunnyside Avenue and Illinois Street
   (62)   Great Lakes Drive and Catherine Drive
   (63)   Camelot Drive and Clover Lane
   (64)   Gettler Street and Stech Street
   (65)   Saturday Evening Avenue and Flagstone Drive
   (66)   Sunnyside Avenue and Illinois Street
   (67)   Great Lakes Drive and Catherine Drive
   (68)   Camelot Drive and Clover Lane
   (69)   Cozy Lane and 215th Street
   (70)   Harrison Avenue and Protsman School
   (71)   Harrison Avenue and Audrey Court
   (72)   Pleasant Springs Lane and Westridge Drive
(Am. Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2020-07, 7-30-20; Am. Ord. No.
2022-28, § 1, 11-16-22)
Sec. 8-138 Schedule 9 - Four Way Stop Streets.
   (1)   Harrison Avenue at 215th Street
   (2)   Cherry Hill Road at Sycamore Drive
   (3)   Osage Drive at Sycamore Drive
   (4)   Berens Street at Lakewood Drive
   (5)   Lilac Drive at Lake Street
   (6)   215th Street at Capri Lane
   (7)   Lake Street at Carnation Street
   (8)   Lake Street at Ivy Lane
   (9)   Schilling Drive at James Drive
   (10)   Prairie Drive and Primrose Drive
   (11)   High Point Trail and Summit Way
   (12)   Chateau Drive and Hillcrest Drive
   (13)    Lancelot Lane and Knighthood Drive
   (14)   Castlewood Drive and Queens Drive
   (15)   Howard Castle Drive and West Clover Lane
   (16)   North Winds Drive and Fairview
   (17)    Flagstone Drive and Amber Way
   (18)   Church Street and Keilman Street
   (19)   Seminary Drive and Blue Jay Way
   (20)   Seminary Drive and Blue Jay Way
   (21)   Deercreek Drive and Hearthstone Lane and Court
   (22)   Lake Street and Gardenia Drive
   (23)   Great Lakes and Rockwell Lane and Rockwell Court
   (24)   Keilman Street and Church Street
   (25)   Castlewood Drive and Kelly Place and Kelly Court
   (26)   215th Street and Sheffield Avenue
   (27)   Greenleaf and Pleasant Springs Lane
   (28)   215th Street and Lake Street
   (29)   215th Street and Rosemary Court
(Am. Ord. No. 2006-26, 12-20-06; Am. Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15; Am. Ord. No.
2020-07, 7-30-20; Am. Ord. No. 2022-28, § 1, 11- 16-22)
Sec. 8-139 Schedule 10 - 15 M.P.H. Speed Zones.
   1.   Central Park Boulevard East.
   2.   West end of Deercreek Drive.
   3.   Edmond Drive.
   4.   81st Avenue west of Hart Street/Sheffield Avenue.
   5.   Within 100 feet when approaching any speed hump, while crossing any
speed hump, and for 100 feet after crossing a speed hum located on any street
within the Town of Dyer.
(Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15; Am Ord. No. 2020-05, 6-25-20)
Sec. 8-139A Schedule 10A - 20 M.P.H. Speed Zones.
   1.   81st Avenue east of Hart Street/Sheffield Avenue.
   2.   Harrison avenue from 213th Street to Audrey Court.
(Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15)
Sec. 8-139B Schedule 10B - 30 M.P.H. Speed Zones.
   1.   77th Avenue.
   2.   81st Avenue except as set forth in Sections
8-139 and
8-139A.
(Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15)
Sec. 8-140 Schedule 11 - 35 M.P.H. Speed Zones.
   1.   Sheffield Avenue north from Edmond Drive to Main Street.
   2.   Hart Street south from Osage Drive to Dyer Town Limits.
   3.   Main Street east from Sheffield Avenue to the Dyer Town Limits.
   4.   213th Street east from a point 150 feet east of Fire Station #2 to the
Dyer Town Limits.
   5.   77th Avenue (Novak Road) east from Hart Street to Blaney Drive.
   6.   Calumet Avenue in both directions between Main Street and U.S. Route
30.
(Am. Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2021-18, 9-9-21)
Sec. 8-140A Schedule 12 - 45 M.P.H. Speed Zones.
   1.   U.S. Highway 30.
(Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2021-18, 9-9-21)
Sec. 8-141 Schedule 13 - One-Way Streets.
Pursuant to Section
8-90, the following one-way designations are declared:
   (1)   None.
   (2)   Reserved.
   (3)   Reserved.
   (4)   Reserved.
   (5)   Reserved.
   (6)   Reserved.
Sec. 8-142 Schedule 14 - Secondary arteries.
The following streets are designated as secondary arteries.
   (1)   Harrison Avenue from Northgate Drive to Edmond Street.
   (2)   Calumet Avenue from U.S. 30 to 77th Avenue.
   (3)   Lake Street from Potomac Street to U.S. 30.
   (4)   Castlewood Drive from U.S. 30 to Knighthood.
(Ord. No. 97-15, 8-12-97)
Sec. 8-143 through Sec. 8-149 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. OTHER VEHICLE AND ROAD REGULATIONS.
Division I. Fire Lanes.
Sec. 8-150 Fire Lanes-Definition and Markings.
“Fire Lanes” shall mean those lanes of travel immediately adjacent to a
building or structure within the Town of Dyer which are so designated by the
Fire Chief of the Town of Dyer, and so marked with a sign which shall read “No
Parking Or Standing At Any Time - Fire Lane” or contain other information to
that effect, which sign shall be installed at the expense of the property owner
along whose building the fire lane is so designated. (Ord. No. 87-14, 6-9-87)
Sec. 8-151 Designated Fire Lanes-Size and Markings. 17
Designated fire lanes shall be marked with diagonal stripes of yellow paint,
which stripes shall be approximately 4 inches wide, 10 feet in length, and 18
inches apart; signs shall be permanently affixed to a building or a stationary
object located along the fire lane, not more than 75 feet apart unless
otherwise designated by Police and Fire Chief. Such signs shall be not less
than 288 square inches, the bottom of which shall be not lower than 36 inches
from the ground and the top not more than 72 inches from the ground, which
shall be clearly marked in black letters on a white background or red letters
on white background with the following words: NO PARKING OR STANDING AT ANY
TIME FIRE LANE.
The designated fire lane shall not be used for pick-up or deliveries. The curb
or sidewalk edge adjacent to the fire lane shall be painted in yellow. (Ord.
No. 87-14, 6-9-87)
                      
17   I.C., § 9-21-12-7, addresses fire emergency areas.
Sec. 8-152 Penalties.
Any person who shall block, obstruct, park in, or otherwise abandon a vehicle
in a designated fire lane, shall be subject to a fine and penalty of twenty-
five dollars ($25.00) as imposed by the Dyer Metropolitan Police Department.
Each individual occurrence shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. No. 87-
14, 6-9-87)
Sec. 8-153 Parking Prohibited By Building Fire Lanes-Penalty.
Each business establishment, hospital, school, church, library, state, federal,
or city structure required by the Dyer Fire Chief and Police Chief to provide a
fire lane or lanes shall not permit parking or other obstructions in such
designated fire lanes. Any person or firm violating this section shall be
subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) as imposed by the Dyer
Metropolitan Police Department. (Ord. No. 87-14, 6-9-87)
Sec. 8-154 through Sec. 8-155 Reserved for Future Use.
Division II. Towing and Storage of Vehicles.
Sec. 8-156 Towing of Vehicles.
Whenever there is a violation of an ordinance of the Town of Dyer under which a
vehicle is to be towed, or public safety requires a vehicle to be towed, it
shall be the duty of the police department of the Town forthwith to employ a
qualified towing contractor to tow and remove such vehicle from the streets or
public property of the Town or from any other place in which it is a violation
to park or locate a vehicle. Said qualified towing contractor shall tow the
vehicle to a vehicle storage pound established by the Town or a specifically
designated storage area operated by a qualified storage keeper. (Ord. No. 88-
13, § 1, 3-8-88)
Sec. 8-157 Towing Contractors and Garage Keepers.
Any towing contractor or garage keeper who desires to perform towing and/or
storage services within the Town for the amounts set forth in the Schedule of
Towing and Storage Fees hereinafter established, and files with the Town, a
certificate of insurance naming the Town of Dyer as additional insured with
liability limits of not less than $250,000/$500,000, for personal injury and
$50,000 for property damage, and receives approval of the Dyer Police
Commission, shall be deemed a qualified person for the purposes of this
Section. The Police Department shall employ towing contractors and garage
keepers pursuant to recommendation and approval of the Dyer Police Commission.
(Ord. No. 88-13, § 2, 3-8-88)
Sec. 8-158 Delivery of Vehicles Towed Due to a Public Safety Violation.
When a vehicle has been towed by reason of the requirement of public safety or
for violation of a Town Ordinance, such vehicle shall be delivered only to the
duly registered owner thereof, as determined by gestation of said vehicle, or a
person otherwise lawfully entitled to possession thereof, upon payment to the
qualified towing contractor of the reasonable costs of such removal, towing and
accumulated storage, pursuant to the schedule of fees and charges hereinafter
established. (Ord. No. 88-13, § 3, 3-8-88)
Sec. 8-159 Disposition of Unclaimed Impounded Vehicles.
If the impounded vehicle has not been reclaimed within seventy-two (72) hours
of the date of its impoundment, the qualified towing contractor shall proceed
with appropriate enforcement of its claim against the vehicle owner as provided
by Indiana law, including provisions concerning notice to the registered owner,
and abandonment of motor vehicles in the State of Indiana. (Ord. No. 88-13, §
4, 3-8-88)
Sec. 8-160 Fees and Charges.
The duly registered owner or person otherwise lawfully entitled to possession
of the impounded vehicle may obtain release of said vehicle pursuant to the
provisions set forth above and upon payment of posted and approved fees and
charges to the qualified towing contractor. Charges shall include but not be
limited to the following services:
   Towing of Vehicles (6:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.)
   Towing of Vehicles (6:00 p.m. - 6:00 a.m.)
   Use of Flat Bed Trailer
   Inside and/or Outside Storage of Vehicles, per 24 hours period or fraction
thereof:
Payment shall be made at the office of the qualified towing contractor.
Sec. 8-161 Towing Fee Schedule.
   (a)   The towing firm with whom the Town has contracted for towing and
storage services may charge for towing or removing the vehicle in the Town as
follows, namely:
Services Provided   Current Rate    Newly Effective Imposed Rate Per Vehicle
Fee
Daytime tow    $85.00    $100.00
Daytime tow with flatbed      $125.00
Nighttime tow    $100.00    $150.00
Nighttime tow with flatbed      $175.00
Daytime winch and tow (in addition to tow)      Up to $50.00
Nighttime winch and tow (in addition to tow)      Up to $100.00
Daytime winch only    $65.00   $75.00
Nighttime winch only    $75.00   $125.00
Flatbed       As applicable
Disconnect linkage (no keys)       $20.00
Storage per day
   Outside   $20.00   $40.00
   Inside   $25.00   $45.00
Two or more trucks used      Two call-outs
Vehicles over 1 ton      As applicable
After hours vehicle release      $25.00
   (b)   The Contract for Towing and Recovery Services by and between the Town
and Stan's Towing & Recovery Service, dated April 11, 1995, is hereby modified
and amended to provide for the newly established towing rate fee scheduled
established hereby, with all other terms and provisions contained therein
ratified and reaffirmed. (Ord. No. 2000-13, 6-20-00; Ord. No. 2012-03, § 1, 3-
8-12)
Sec. 8-162 Tow Release Services Fee.
   (a)   A fee in the sum of forty-five dollars ($45.00) for tow release
services is hereby established, as a policy for and within the Town of Dyer.
   (b)   Any monies received for providing tow release services shall be
deposited into the “Police Department Special Revenue Fund.”
(Ord. No. 2008-13, 9-17-08; Am. Ord. No. 2010-11, 11-3-10)
Sec. 8-163 through Sec. 8-164 Reserved for Future Use.
Division III. Parking for Disabled.18
                        
18   I.C., § 9-14-5-1, et seq., addresses parking placards for physically
handicapped individuals; and I.C., § 9-18-22- 1, et seq., addresses handicapped
persons license plates.
Sec. 8-165 Definitions.
   (a)   “Physically Handicapped Person” shall mean any person who has:
      (1)   permanently lost the use of one (1) or more legs or arms,
      (2)   is permanently unable to move without the aid of crutches or a
wheelchair, or
      (3)   is unable to walk long distances as verified by a doctor's
certificate.
   (b)   “Handicapped Parking Permit” shall mean any tag, sticker, or card
issued by the Town of Dyer or any other municipality, license plate issued by
any state, or any other regularly issued handicapped parking permit, indicating
that the driver or a passenger in that vehicle is a physically handicapped
person. (Ord. No. 83-10, 3-8-83)
Sec. 8-166 Designation of Handicapped Parking Spaces.
Certain public parking spaces within the Town of Dyer shall be designated as
“reserved” by posting immediately adjacent to and visible from such space or
spaces, a sign bearing the official international wheel chair symbol, or
facsimile thereof. Parking in these designated spaces shall be reserved solely
for the use of those vehicles prominently displaying a handicapped parking
permit. (Ord. No. 83-10, 3-8-83)
Sec. 8-167 Penalties.
Any person who shall take advantage of the handicapped parking permit granted
under this section when the vehicle is not being used to transport a physically
handicapped person shall be subject to a fine and penalty of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) as imposed by the Dyer Metropolitan Police Department. Each
individual occurrence shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. No. 83-10,
3-8-83)
Sec. 8-168 Business Establishments to Provide Handicap Parking-Penalties.
Each business establishment required to provide parking spaces for the
handicapped shall not permit parking in such designated spaces by vehicles not
displaying a handicapped parking permit. Any person or business violation, this
section shall he subject to a fine and penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
as imposed by the Dyer Metropolitan Police Department. (Ord. No. 83-10, 3-8-83)
Sec. 8-169 through Sec. 8-173 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IV. Weight Limits.19
                           
19   I.C., § 9-20-1-3, authorizes local authorities to impose weight
restrictions by proper ordinance.
Sec. 8-174 Weight Limit on Sheffield Avenue.
It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle with a gross weight in excess
of seven (7) tons (14,000 pounds) on Sheffield Avenue between Main Street and
Matteson Avenue, with the exception of local deliveries to local businesses
located on Sheffield Avenue between Main Street and Matteson Avenue. (Ord. No.
89-28, 7-11-89)
Sec. 8-175 Penalty.
Any person violating the terms and provisions of Section
8-174 shall be subject to a fine in the amount of Fifty Dollars ($50.00)
payable to the Clerk of the Town of Dyer; and if not paid, then subject to
filing of action.
(Ord. No. 89-28, 7-11-89)
Sec. 8-176 Ten (10) Ton Gross Weight Limit Streets.
No person, firm or corporation shall operate over the within designated streets
situated within the Town of Dyer, Indiana, any vehicle when the combined weight
of the vehicle together with its driver and load exceeds ten (10) tons gross
weight, except as hereinafter provided. Said gross weight shall be the maximum
permissible weight allowed on the following streets within the Town of Dyer:
Magnolia, Greenwood, East End, Meadow Lane, Sunnybrook, 214th, 213th Place,
212th Place, Berkley Drive, Edmond Drive, Devon Drive, Coral Drive, Beldon
Drive, Avalon, 215th, Harrison, Sunnyside, Church, Illinois, Keilman (except as
provided in Section
8-183 hereafter) Greiving, Henry, Stech, Nondorf, Moeller, Elm, Oak, Gettler,
Schulte, Plum Creek, Andrew Drive, Mary, Forest Park Drive, South, Lakewood
Drive, Monaldi Parkway, Schmidt, Enslen Drive, Frances Place, Janet Place,
Edgewood Drive, Fagen Street and Lake Street.
(Ord. No. 367, § 1, 11-12-57; Am Ord. No. 2002-06, 2-19-02)
Sec. 8-177 Exceptions Require Permit.
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to operate a vehicle in excess of said
gross weight, having first shown a necessity for so doing to the Town Council
whose decision shall be final and conclusive, shall if the said Council decides
a necessity exists for so doing, secure a temporary permit from the Town Clerk
permitting operation of a vehicle with a greater weight than the ten (10) ton
gross weight maximum limitation herein imposed.
(Ord. No. 367, § 2, 11-12-57)
Sec. 8-178 Bond Requirements.
When the Town Council has decided that a necessity exists for the operation of
vehicles in excess of gross weight it shall order the Town Clerk to issue a
temporary permit to said person, firm or corporation, provided that said
person, firm or corporation has first posted with said Town Clerk a Five
Hundred Dollar ($500.00) cash bond to insure that the streets, including curbs
and gutters, operated upon, have not been damaged in any way as a result of
said operation, and further provided that said person, firm or corporation had
paid to said Town Clerk a permit fee of Fifty Cents ($0.50) for each permit,
which fee shall revert to the General Fund.
(Ord. No. 367, § 3, 11-12-57)
Sec. 8-179 Damage to Streets.
The cash bond so posted shall be returned to the person, firm or corporation
having deposited same upon surrender to the Town Clerk of the temporary permit
so issued provided that it has been certified upon the face of said temporary
permit by the Dyer Town Public Works Director that said street or streets so
used have been inspected and that no damage has resulted as a consequence of
operation pursuant to issuance of said temporary permit. If the Public Works
Director finds upon inspection that any street damage has been caused by
operation of any vehicle for which a temporary excess weight permit has been
issued, he shall report same to the Town Council of the Town of Dyer, who shall
estimate the cost of repair of said damage and shall declare forfeited any or
all of said cash bond including any part or all of said cash bond including any
part or all thereof as is necessary to offset the cost of said repairs.
(Ord. No. 367, § 4, 11-12-57)
Sec. 8-180 Form of Temporary Permit.
The temporary permit so issued in accordance herewith shall constitute a
receipt for the cash bond and shall upon its face designate the name of the
person, firm or corporation to whom issued, date of issue, the maximum excess
weight permitted, the day and time when said permit shall be valid, the type
and description of vehicle to be used, the street or streets upon which said
vehicle shall be operated, signature of the Dyer Town Clerk, a place for the
Dyer Town Public Works Director to certify that he has inspected the streets
and found them undamaged, if such be the case, and a place for the person, firm
or corporation to sign acknowledging receipt or return or the cash bond so
posted.
(Ord. No. 367, § 5, 11-12-57)
Sec. 8-181 Display of Permit.
All temporary excess weight at permits issued in accordance with this ordinance
shall be displayed openly and in clear view in each vehicle being operated
pursuant to the permit so issued.
(Ord. No. 367, § 6, 11-12-57)
Sec. 8-182 Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this ordinance shall upon conviction be
fined not less than Ten Dollars ($10.00) for each offense.
(Ord. No. 367, § 7, 11-12-57)
Sec. 8-183 Weight Limit on Keilman Street.
It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle with a gross weight in excess
of three tons (6,000 pounds) on Keilman Street over the Keilman Street Bridge.
The gross weight limit for all other portions of Keilman Street shall be as
contained within Section
8-176 herein.
(Ord. No. 2002-06, 2-19-02)
Sec. 8-184 through Sec. 8-187 Reserved for Future Use.
Division V. Miscellaneous Regulations.
Sec. 8-188 Driving on Sidewalks Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to go upon any sidewalk with any
vehicle or animal expect in the necessary act of crossing any such sidewalk and
it shall be unlawful for any person or persons to ride upon any sidewalk in the
Town of Dyer, Indiana, upon any bicycle, motorcycle, horse, mule, pony, ox,
cow, wagon or buggy or other vehicle propelled by man or beast or by mechanical
power.
(Ord. No. 15, § 1, 5-2-11)
Sec. 8-189 Parking Limitation for Parking Vehicles With Live Animals.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park, and/
or to permit to be parked, and/or to remain parked, any motor vehicle loaded
with cattle, hogs, sheep, horses and/or other livestock or poultry on any of
the public streets, alleys or other public places within the corporate limits
of the Town of Dyer, for more than thirty (30) minutes at any one time.
(Ord. No. 167, § 1, 1-4-38)
   (b)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this ordinance shall be fined in any sum not less than one dollar ($1.00) or
more than ten dollars ($10.00).
(Ord. No. 167, § 2, 1-4-38)
Sec. 8-190 Obedience and Stopping at Railroad Crossings. 20
   (a)   Protected Railroad Crossings. All vehicles and the operator of all
vehicles shall stop wherever any protected railroad grade crossing indicates
the presence of a train by flashing lights, lowering or raising of gates, or
the extinguishment of a green light, or by means of any other automatic
crossing protection which indicates the fact that a train is approaching the
crossing and such automatic crossing protection begins to function.
   (b)   Unguarded Crossings. It shall be the duty of the operator of every
motor vehicle approaching any railroad grade crossing which is not protected by
an automatic crossing protection consisting of either gates or red flashing
lights, to bring his automobile or vehicle to a stop within fifty (50) feet of
the nearest rail, and he shall then look to the right and to the left and
ascertain that it is safe to proceed before proceeding across the crossing.
(Ord. No. 687, § 1, § 2, - - 68)
                  
20   I.C., § 9-21-8-39, addresses railroad crossings.
Sec. 8-191 Non-moving Trains Prohibited from Blocking Streets at Railway
Crossings.
   (a)   Any railroad company or any person, firm, or corporation operating or
employed by any railroad within the Town is prohibited from permitting a non-
moving railroad train, car, or engine to block any public street or roadway in
the town for more than ten (10) minutes at any one (1) time, except when
necessary to comply with governmental safety regulations, or where the railroad
train, car, or engine cannot be moved due to circumstances beyond the control
of the railroad company.
   (b)   This ordinance is enacted to promote the public interest and welfare
of the residents of the town and those using its public streets and roadways by
facilitating the orderly flow of traffic and ensuring the continued and
unimpeded response of essential public safety services, not to control,
regulate, or improve railroad safety, thus it shall not apply to moving
railroad trains, cars, or engines, and shall not supplant current federal or
Indiana law governing negligence or lack thereof by railroads or their agents
and employees.
(Ord. No. 2000-15, 6-20-00; Am. Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15)
Sec. 8-192 Penalty.
   Each violation of Section
8-191, defined as each separate blockage or obstruction of a public street or
roadway by a standing railroad train, car, or engine for more than ten (10)
minutes, is punishable by a fine of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) assessed against the railroad company, or person, firm, or
corporation responsible for the violation. However, no railroad agent or
employee acting under the rules or orders of the railroad company, firm, or
corporation shall be fined for a violation of this ordinance, as the same may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2000-15, 6-20-00; Am. Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15)
Sec. 8-193 Turns.
   A right-hand turn from southbound Calumet Avenue to westbound 213th Street
is prohibited when pedestrians are present.
(Ord. 2019-03, § 1, 5-9-19; Am. Ord. 2019-09, § 1, 9-12-19)
Sec. 8-194 through Sec. 8-200 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VI. Renaming Streets.
Sec. 8-201 Renaming Streets Within Pinewood Estates.
The following recorded streets shall be corrected as follows:
   RECORDED      NEW NAME      RECORDED      NEW NAME
Cypress Drive         Old Beach Road      Dogwood Drive      Tomahawk Road
Holly Court            Flint Court         Birch Drive         Glacier Drive
Cottonwood Drive      Boulder Road      Pinewood Drive      Sandy Ridge Road
Elmwood Drive         Flat Rock Road      Walnut Court      Ridge Court
Willow Drive         Rolling Hill Dr.      Elmwood South      Fossil Stone Road
Aspen Court            Dune Sand Court      Schilling Drive      Granite Drive
Laurel Drive            Arrowhead Drive      Calumet Avenue      NO CHANGE
(Ord. No. 79-16, 6-12-79)
Sec. 8-202 through Sec. 8-207 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VII. Local Road and Streets Inventory.21
                                                   
21   Editor's Note: The Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) is
required to have a complete inventory of roads and streets for dollar
allocation purposes.
Sec. 8-208 Acceptance of Local Roads and Streets.
All roads and streets dedicated to the Town of Dyer are hereby accepted into
the local road and street inventory of the Town of Dyer.
(Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15)
Sec. 8-209 through Sec. 8-214 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VIII. Vehicle Identification.
Sec. 8-215 Motor Vehicle Inspections - Fees.
   (a)   Motor vehicle identification inspections. Any person or firm
requesting a motor vehicle identification inspection by the Police Department
of the Town of Dyer shall be assessed the sum of $5.00 (Five Dollars) which
shall be paid in advance for such inspection.
   (b)   The fees collected under subsection (a) and (b) shall be deposited in
the Town Law Enforcement Continuing Legal Education Fund (LECEF) for the
purposes as set forth and permitted by the Town Code Section
2-187, as amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. No. 2003-29, 11-18-03; Am. Ord. No. 2015-01, 3-12-15)
Sec. 8-216 and Sec. 8-217 Reserved for Future Use.
CHAPTER 9
UTILITIES
Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 25-03,
adopted 3-25-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
Sec. 9-1   Authority to Establish Utility Service.
Sec. 9-2   Authority to Establish Waterworks.
Sec. 9-3   Authority to Regulate the Disposal of Sanitary Sewage.
Sec. 9-4 Through Sec. 9-10 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. WATERWORKS
   Division I. Background Regulations.
Sec. 9-11   Payment in Lieu of Property Taxes.
Sec. 9-12   State Law Incorporated by Reference.
Sec. 9-13   Board of Directors.
Sec. 9-14   Waterworks District.
Sec. 9-15   Compliance.
Sec. 9-16   Revenue Bonds.
Sec. 9-17   Conflicting Ordinances.
Sec. 9-18   Water Quality Management Planning Responsibilities.
Sec. 9-19 Through Sec. 9-24 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division II. Establishment of Customer Deposits, Connection Charges, and
Rules and Regulations for the Waterworks System.
Sec. 9-25   Customer Deposits.
Sec. 9-26   Disconnection and Reconnection of Service.
Sec. 9-27   Water Hydrant Connection.
Sec. 9-28   Deposit Fees.
Sec. 9-29   Accuracy Tests.
Sec. 9-30   Installation of Meters.
Sec. 9-31   Contract for Service.
Sec. 9-32   Delinquent Accounts.
Sec. 9-33   Violation.
Sec. 9-34   Interest Penalty Waived If On Social Security.
Sec. 9-35   Discontinuance of Water Service/Administrative Appeal.
Sec. 9-36 Through Sec. 9-39 Reserved For Future Use.
   Division III. Regulations To Protect the Public Water System from
Contamination.
Sec. 9-40   Cross-Connections Defined.
Sec. 9-41   Cross-Connections Prohibited.
Sec. 9-42   Inspections and Fees.
Sec. 9-43   Right of Entry.
Sec. 9-44   Discontinuance of Water Service.
Sec. 9-45   Emergency Situations.
Sec. 9-46   Backflow Preventors.
Sec. 9-47   Licensed Plumber Required.
Sec. 9-48   Regulations Supplemental to State Uniform Plumbing Code.
Sec. 9-49 Through Sec. 9-54 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division IV. Rates and Charges for Use and Service Rendered by Waterworks
System.
Sec. 9-55   Metered Monthly Rates.
Sec. 9-56   Minimum Charge.
Sec. 9-57   Fire Protection Charges - Hydrant Rental.
Sec. 9-58   Sprinkler Connection.
Sec. 9-59   Temporary Users.
Sec. 9-60   Late Payment Charge.
Sec. 9-61   Water Non-Recurring Charges.
Sec. 9-62   Customer Deposits.
Sec. 9-63   Reasonable Return.
Sec. 9-64   Payment in Lieu of Taxes.
Sec. 9-65   Effective Date.
Sec. 9-66   Penalties.
Sec. 9-67   System Development Charges.
Sec. 9-68    Ten-Year Water Rate Tracking.
Sec. 9-69   Reserved for Future Use.
   Division V. Other Regulations.
Sec. 9-70   Swimming Pool-When Assessment Waived.
Sec. 9-71   Information to be Filed With Clerk-Treasurer.
Sec. 9-72   Sprinkling Regulations.
Sec. 9-73 Through Sec. 9-79 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   Division I. General Information.
Sec.
9-80   Authority and Title.
Sec.
9-80.1   Applicability and Exemptions.
Sec.
9-80.2   Background.
Sec.
9-80.3   Findings.
Sec.
9-80.4   Purpose.
Sec.
9-80.5   Abbreviations and Definitions.
Sec.
9-80.6   Responsibility for Administration.
Sec.
9-80.7   Conflicting Ordinances.
Sec.
9-80.8   Interpretation.
Sec.
9-80.9   Disclaimer of Liability.
   Division II. Prohibited Discharges and Connections.
Sec.
9-81   Applicability and Exemptions.
Sec.
9-81.1   Prohibited Discharges and Connections.
Sec.
9-81.2   Exempted Discharges and Connections.
Sec.
9-81.3   Storage of Hazardous or Toxic Material.
Sec.
9-81.4   Private Property Maintenance Duties.
Sec.
9-81.5   Spill Reporting.
Sec.
9-81.6   Inspection and Monitoring.
   Division III. Stormwater Quantity Management.
Sec.
9-82   Applicability and Exemptions.
Sec.
9-82.1   Policy on Stormwater Quantity Management.
Sec.
9-82.2   Calculations and Design Standards and Specifications.
Sec.
9-82.3   Drainage Easement Requirements.
Sec.
9-82.4   Placement of Utilities.
Sec.
9-82.5   Inspection, Maintenance, Record Keeping, and Reporting.
   Division IV. Stormwater Pollution Prevention for Construction Sites.
Sec.
9-83   Applicability and Exemptions.
Sec.
9-83.1   Policy on Stormwater Pollution Prevention.
Sec.
9-83.2   Calculations and Design Standards and Specifications.
Sec.
9-83.3   Inspection, Maintenance, Record Keeping, and Reporting.
   Division V. Stormwater Quality Management for Post-Construction.
Sec.
9-84   Applicability and Exemptions.
Sec.
9-84.1   Policy on Stormwater Quality Management.
Sec.
9-84.2   Calculations and Design Standards and Specifications.
Sec.
9-84.3   Easement Requirements.
Sec.
9-84.4   Inspection, Maintenance, Record Keeping, and Reporting.
   Division VI. Development in Wetlands Regulations.
Sec.
9-85   Applicability and Exemptions.
Sec.
9-85.1   Policy on Wetlands Disturbance Prevention.
Sec.
9-85.2   Wetlands Identification (Including Seasonal).
   Division VII. Permit Requirements and Procedures.
Sec.
9-86   Permit Procedures.
Sec.
9-86.1   Information Requirements.
Sec.
9-86.2   Review of Individual Lots Within a Permitted Project.
Sec.
9-86.3   Changes to Plans.
Sec.
9-86.4   Fee Structure.
Sec.
9-86.5   Required Assurances.
Sec.
9-86.6   Terms and Conditions of Permits.
Sec.
9-86.7   Certification of As-Built Plans.
   Division VIII. Enforcement.
Sec.
9-87   Compliance With This Ordinance.
Sec.
9-87.1   Penalties for Violations.
Sec.
9-87.2   Stop Work Order.
Sec.
9-87.3   Failure to Comply or Complete.
Sec.
9-87.4   Suspension of Access to the Storm Drain System.
Sec.
9-87.5   Corrective Action.
Sec.
9-87.6   Appeals.
Sec. 9-88 Through Sec. 9-89 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SANITATION.
Sec. 9-90   Governing State Law.
Sec. 9-91   Department of Public Sanitation Created.
Sec. 9-92   Territory Included in District.
Sec. 9-93   Board.
Sec. 9-94   Special Taxing District.
Sec. 9-95   Concurrent Power.
Sec. 9-96 Through Sec. 9-99 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 5. REGULATIONS ADDRESSING PUBLIC SEWERS AND DRAINS.
Sec. 9-100   Definitions.
Sec. 9-101   Private Sewage Disposal.
Sec. 9-102   Building Sewers and Connections.
Sec. 9-103   Discharges to Public Sewers.
Sec. 9-104   Pretreatment of Industrial Wastes.
Sec. 9-105   Plans and Specifications of Pretreatment Facilities.
Sec. 9-106   Spills Reporting.
Sec. 9-107   Protections from Damage; Arrest.
Sec. 9-108   Search Warrant.
Sec. 9-109   Recovery of Costs.
Sec. 9-110   Effective Date of Ordinance.
Sec. 9-111   Construction of Ordinance.
Sec. 9-112   Severability and Conflicts.
Sec. 9-113 Through Sec. 9-124 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 6. SEWAGE WORKS.
   Division I. Scheduling of Rates and Charges.
Sec. 9-125   Definitions.
Sec. 9-126   Rates and Charges.
Sec. 9-127   Special Metering.
Sec. 9-128   Billing.
Sec. 9-129   Laws and Regulations by the Town.
Sec. 9-130   Delinquent Bills.
Sec. 9-131   Connection, Tap-In and Permit Fees.
Sec. 9-132   Excessive Strength Surcharge.
Sec. 9-133   Authorization to Enforce Regulations.
Sec. 9-134   Fire Protection and Adjustments.
Sec. 9-135   Compliance with State and Federal Requirements.
Sec. 9-136   Authorization to Enter into Special Rate Contracts.
Sec. 9-137   Effective Date of Ordinance Rates and Charges.
Sec. 9-138   Effective Date of Ordinance.
Sec. 9-139   Construction of Ordinance.
Sec. 9-140   Severability and Conflicts.
Sec. 9-141   System Development Charges.
Sec. 9-142 Through Sec. 9-144 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division II. Funds Related to Sewage Works.
Sec. 9-145   Revenue Fund.
Sec. 9-146   Operation and Maintenance Fund.
Sec. 9-147   Sewage Works Sinking Fund.
Sec. 9-148   Improvement Fund.
Sec. 9-149   Priority of Payments.
Sec. 9-150   Maintenance of Accounts.
Sec. 9-151 Through Sec. 9-157 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division III. Miscellaneous Regulations Related to the Sewage Works.
Sec. 9-158   Release of Sewer Taps.
Sec. 9-159   Assessment of a Surcharge for Disposal of Ground Water Into the
Dyer Sanitary Sewer System.
Sec. 9-160   Payment in Lieu of Taxes.
Sec. 9-161 Through Sec. 9-179 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 7. PROCEDURES REGARDING “UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS”.
Sec. 9-180   Definitions.
Sec. 9-181   Public Hearing.
Sec. 9-182   Designation of Underground Utility District.
Sec. 9-183   Unlawful Acts.
Sec. 9-184   Exception, Emergency or Unusual Circumstances.
Sec. 9-185   Other Exceptions.
Sec. 9-186   Notice to Property Owners and Utility.
Sec. 9-187   Responsibility of Utility.
Sec. 9-188   Responsibility of Property Owner.
Sec. 9-189   Responsibility of Town.
Sec. 9-190   Extension of Time.
Sec. 9-191   Penalty.
Sec. 9-192 Through Sec. 9-199 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 8. SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
Sec. 9-200   Quad-Town Council and Intergovernmental Cooperation.
Sec. 9-201   Charges for Collection and Disposal of Solid Waste.
Sec. 9-202   Solid Waste Disposal Fund.
Sec. 9-203   Monthly Billing Procedure.
Sec. 9-204   Use of Funds.
Sec. 9-205   Yard Waste Stickers.
Sec. 9-206   Size and Weight Limitations.
Sec. 9-207   Role of Town Council President.
Sec. 9-208   Solid Waste/Recycling Commission.
Sec. 9-209 Through Sec. 9-239 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS. 1
                                 
1 I.C., §§36-9-23-1 through 36-9-23-36, address municipal sewage works.
Sec. 9-1 Authority to Establish Utility Service. 2
A Town may furnish or regulate the furnishing of utility service to the public.
                                 
2 I.C., § 36-9-2-15, addresses utility service to the public.
Sec. 9-2 Authority to Establish Waterworks. 3
A Town may regulate the furnishing of water to the public, and may establish,
maintain, and operate waterworks.
                                 
3 I.C., § 36-9-2-14, addresses Waterworks.
Sec. 9-3 Authority to Regulate the Disposal of Sanitary Sewage. 4
   a.   A Town may regulate the furnishing of the service of collecting,
processing, and disposing of waste substances and domestic or sanitary sewage,
which includes the power to fix the price to be charged for that service.
   b.   A Town may collect, process, and dispose of waste substances and
domestic or sanitary sewage, and may establish, maintain, and operate sewers,
sewage disposal systems, and systems to collect and dispose of waste
substances.
                                 
4 I.C., §§ 36-9-2-16 and 36-9-2-17, address the disposal of substances and
domestic or sanitary sewage.
Sec. 9-4 through 9-10 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 2. WATERWORKS.
Division I. Background Regulations.
Sec. 9-11 Payment in Lieu of Taxes.
   a.   The Town of Dyer is entitled to assess and collect a payment in lieu of
property tax from the Dyer Water Utility based on the assessed value of the
property and holdings of the Dyer Water Utility pursuant to Burns Annotated
Statutes, Code Edition § 8-1.5-3-8. (Ord. No. 89-46, 12-12-89)
   b.   An ordinance setting forth the computation of payment in lieu of taxes
is required of the Town Council.
Sec. 9-12 State Law Incorporated By Reference.
The Town owns and operates a waterworks and adopts the provisions of Indiana
Code, § 8-1-1.5-4 with the passage of this ordinance. (Ord. No. 91-17, § 1, 7-
9-91)
Sec. 9-13 Board of Directors.
The Town Council of the Town of Dyer, pursuant to Indiana Code, § 8-1.5-4-2,
creates a division of waterworks to be a part of the Department of Public Works
which is further addressed in § 2-55, et seq., of this Code.
Sec. 9-14 Waterworks District.
The Department has jurisdiction over a special taxing district to be known as
the Town of Dyer Department of Waterworks Special Taxing District (the
"District") whose boundaries are coterminous with and the same as the corporate
boundaries of the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, which consists of all the
territory served by the Department. (Ord. No. 91-17, § 3, 7-9-91; Ord. No. 95-
11, 4-11-95)
Sec. 9-15 Compliance.
The Division and the Board shall comply with all provisions of Indiana Code, §
8-1.5-4 as existing and as may be hereafter amended. (Ord. No. 91-17, § 5, 7-9-
91)
Sec. 9-16 Revenue Bonds.
The Board shall take no actions which shall impair or impede the rights of the
holders of the 1987 Bonds so long as the 1987 Bonds are outstanding. The Dyer
Water Board shall have authority and right to issue waterworks revenue bonds in
accordance with Indiana Code, § 8-1.5. (Ord. No. 91-17, § 6, 7-9-91; Ord. No.
95-11, 4-11-95)
Sec. 9-17 Conflicting Ordinances.
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby
repealed, provided, however, that this ordinance shall not be deemed in any way
to repeal, amend, alter or modify the ordinance authorizing the 1987 Bonds nor
be construed, as adversely affecting the rights of the holders of the 1987
Bonds. (Ord. No. 91-17, § 7, 7-9-91)
Sec. 9-18 Water Quality Management Planning Responsibilities. 5
The Town of Dyer, Indiana, desires to be the approved designated management
agency for the control of water pollution sources within its area of legal
jurisdiction. (Res. No. 91-17, 7-9-91)
                                 
5 The Clean Air Act, §§ 208 and 303(e) require the development and
implementation of water quality management plans, and the EPA, Region V
requires appropriate designation for State Revolving Fund Financial Assistance.
Sec. 9-19 Through Sec. 9-24 Reserved for Future Use.
Division II. Establishment of Customer Deposits, Connection Charges, and Rules
and Regulations for the Waterworks System.
Sec. 9-25 Customer Deposits.
Each firm or person desiring to have water service provided to real estate
within the Town of Dyer, shall deposit with the Dyer Water Utility through the
Clerk-Treasurer a security deposit in the following amount:
   Residential Service   $ 40.00
   Retail-under 1,500 square feet of gross floor space   $ 40.00
   Retail-over 1,500 square fee of gross floor space   $100.00
   Beauty Salons, Barber Shops & Industrial Connection   $200.00
   Restaurants, Laundromats, & Nursing Homes   $400.00
The security deposit shall be collected by the Clerk-Treasurer and receipted
into the Water Utility and shall be returnable to the customer upon final
reading and full payment of all charges incurred for water utility service. In
the event the customer is not delinquent in payment over (30) days for a
continuous period of thirty-six (36) months, the Clerk-Treasurer shall return
the security deposit to the customer upon submission of written request
therefor. (Ord. No. 84-21, § 1, 5-10-84)
Sec. 9-26 Disconnection and Reconnection of Service.
If at any time it becomes necessary to remove a water meter or disconnect water
service to a customer, for non-payment of charges or at the customer's request,
a fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid by the customer. If
at any time it becomes necessary to reconnect a water meter or connect water
service to a customer, a reconnection fee in the amount of fifty dollars
($50.00) shall be paid by the customer prior to reconnection of water service.
In the event that the request for removal or the disconnection of water service
or the reconnection of water service is done, at the customer’s request, during
non Town of Dyer business hours, each of said fees shall increase by twenty-
five dollars ($25.00).
(Ord. No. 84-21, § 2, 5-10-84; Ord. No. 2008-12, 9-17-08)
Sec. 9-27 Water Hydrant Connection.
   a.   Any person or firm desiring to utilize a fire hydrant for the purpose
of purchasing water from the Dyer Water Utility, shall notify the Director of
Public Works or his designee.
   b.   Upon approval by the Director or his designee, the applicant shall pay
a deposit to the Clerk-Treasurer in the amount listed below under deposit fee.
   c.   The person or firm applying for the hydrant permit shall be responsible
for any damage or problems that may occur to the fire hydrant or hydrant meter
in the course of obtaining water.
   d.   Upon receiving a paid receipt from the Clerk-Treasurer, the applicant
will be issued the proper size water meter and hydrant wrench. When the meter
and wrench are returned, the Department of Public Works will notify the Clerk-
Treasurer of the amount of water used and the applicant shall be responsible
for the amount of water used. A hydrant may only be opened by an employee of
the Town of Dyer after issuance of a valid permit. Except in extraordinary
cases, only the hydrant located at the Public Works facility shall be available
for use by the public under the provision of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 90-6, 3-13-90)
Sec. 9-28 Deposit Fees.
The following deposit and rental/usage fees are established:
   1.   Deposit for hydrant meter with backflow device:   $1,500.00
   2.   Deposit for hydrant wrench:   $26.00
   3.   The rental fee for the hydrant meter shall be $50.00 plus $1.00 per day
for each day of usage payable in advance. Any unpaid fees and/or damage to the
hydrant meter or wrench shall be deducted from the deposit. Any overpayment
shall be refunded.
It shall be unlawful for any person to open a hydrant without a permit having
been issued to such person as herein above provided. (Ord. No. 90-6, 3-13-90;
Ord. No. 2008-12, 9-17-08)
Sec. 9-29 Accuracy Tests.
Each person or firm purchasing water from the Dyer Water Utility shall be
entitled to have the accuracy of the water meter on his property checked for
accuracy at any reasonable time upon five (5) days' notice to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the Town. Each such customer shall be entitled to one (1) accuracy
test each twelve (12) months, as requested, without charge. Thereafter,
additional meter accuracy tests shall be performed by the Dyer Water Utility,
except that the requesting customer shall be responsible for the cost of the
test in the event the test indicates the meter is accurate. In such event, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall assess the customer the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) which
shall be added to the customer's next succeeding bill. (Ord. No. 84-21, § 4, 5-
10-84)
Sec. 9-30 Installation of Meters.
   (a)   Space shall be provided by the consumer for installation of the water
meter. The meter shall be accessible to the Dyer Water Utility, and its duly
authorized representative, at all times. The plumbing inspector of the Town of
Dyer shall have authority to require the consumer to locate or relocate the
meter if, in his opinion, the meter is inaccessible or is rendered inaccessible
as a result of reconstruction, remodeling, or improvement of the real estate
serviced.
   (b)   All water meters shall be equipped with an electronic transmitting
register that will allow the meter to be read locally and to transmit readings
via radio frequency to a remote reading device.
   (c)   An electric transmitting register shall be required for all new
construction and for all existing water service customers.
   (d)   Meters will be read electronically via radio frequency by the utility
each month. Effective February 1, 2014, a monthly meter reading surcharge shall
apply to any customer that has not converted to an electric transmitting
register in accordance with Section
9-30. Call-in readings shall not be accepted.
   (e)   Any person or entity found in violation of the terms of this section
shall be subject to a fine of $250.00. Each day this section is violated shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 84-21, § 5, 5-10-84; Am. Ord. 2013-12, § 1, 11-14-13; Am. Ord. No.
2014-17, 11-13-14; Am. Ord. No. 2016-19, § 1, 7-14-16)
Sec. 9-31 Contract for Service.
   a.   Any person or firm desiring to purchase water from the Department of
Public Utilities (Dyer Water Utility) of the Town of Dyer shall execute a
contract in favor of the Dyer Public Works Department in the form of "Exhibit
A" attached hereto and made a part hereof by reference. In the event the person
or firm contracting for such service is not the registered owner of the real
estate to which the water service is provided, it shall be necessary for the
owner of the real estate serviced to executor a “Guarantee” as provided on
“Exhibit A” attached hereto and made a part hereof by reference, which shall be
executed by the owner of the serviced real estate Within ten (10) days after
water service is provided to the subject real estate.
   b.   In the event the owner fails or refuses to executor and deliver to the
Clerk-Treasurer such a “Guarantee” within such ten (10) day period, the water
service shall be disconnected and shall not be reconnected until the required
“Guarantee” is so executed by the owner.
   c.   The Clerk-Treasurer is directed to notify the owner of each parcel of
real estate to which water is presently supplied, who has not heretofore
executed a contract for water service and/or guarantee of contract, of the
requirements of this ordinance. The Clerk-Treasurer shall further provide each
such owner with a guarantee and contract in the form of “Exhibit A”, which
shall be executed by said owner and his tenant and returned to the Clerk-
Treasurer within fifteen (15) days of the date mailed. If the executed contract
and guarantee is not executed and filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of
Dyer within said fifteen (15) days, the Clerk-Treasurer shall send to the
owner, and also to the person to whom service is registered, a second and final
notice which shall notify and advise such persons or firms that water service
will be disconnected seven (7) days from the date of such notice. In the event
the owner and person to whom such water service is billed refuse or fail to
execute and file such contract with the Clerk- Treasurer within such seven (7)
day period, the Clerk-Treasurer shall direct the Director of Public Works to
disconnect the water service to such real estate. Service shall not thereafter
be reconnected until the “Contract” and “Guarantee” attached hereto and
“Exhibit A” and incorporated herein by reference are duly executed and filed
with the Clerk-Treasurer, and the reconnection fee in the amount of twenty
dollars ($20.00), as hereinabove provided, is paid. (Ord. No. 84-21, § 6, 5-10-
84)
Sec. 9-32 Delinquent Accounts.
Residential accounts with a delinquent balance of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
or more for a continuous period in excess of thirty (30) days shall be
disconnected, and shall not be reconnected until the account, together with the
reconnection fee as hereinabove provided, is paid in full. Commercial accounts
with delinquent balance in excess of the average one (1) month billing for a
continuous period in excess of thirty (30) days shall be disconnected, and
shall not be reconnected until the account, together with the recognition fee
as herein provided, is paid in full. (Ord. No. 84-21, § 7, 5-10-84)
Sec. 9-33 Violation.
Any person found in violation of the terms of this ordinance shall be subject
to a fine in an amount not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00). Each day
this ordinance is violated shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. No. 84-
21, § 8, 5-10-84)
Sec. 9-34 Interest Penalty Waived If On Social Security.
Any individual of the Town of Dyer who receives a bill for the rendering of
utility services by the Town, and who also receives Social Security
Supplemental Income (SSI) or any payment subject to the Windfall Elimination
Provisions (WEP) of 42 U.S.C. § 415(a)(7) is not liable for any interest
penalty states on said utility bill.
(Res. No. 91-9, 4-9-91; Am. Ord. No. 2021-2, 1-14-21)
Sec. 9-35 Discontinuance of Water Service/Administrative Appeal.
   (a)   This appeal process shall not apply to water disconnections due to
necessary repairs, any tampering, or knowingly permitting any tampering with
any service pipe, service stop, meter, or meter seal.
   (b)   In all other cases, the Town of Dyer Water Utility shall give at least
seven (7) days prior written notice, either mailed to such customer at his
address as shown upon the utility's records or personally delivered to him
where a person is on the premises, advising the customer of the reason for the
proposed discontinuance of service, and stating that service shall be
discontinued if the reason continues to be uncorrected at the conclusion of
seven (7) days; and further providing that the customer may request an
administrative hearing to held prior to discontinuance of service. The
administrative hearing shall be held before the Dyer Town Administrator. In the
event of the absence of the Town Administrator, the hearing may be held before
his designated representative. At the conclusion of the administrative hearing,
the Town Administrator or his designee shall have the authority, based on good
cause, to affirm, modify, or reverse the order to discontinue service. The Town
Administrator or his designee shall provide the decision of the hearing in
writing.
   (c)   The Town of Dyer Water Utility may discontinue service without notice
in cases arising due to necessary repairs, any tampering, or knowingly
permitting any tampering with any service pipe, service stop, meter, or meter
seal. (Ord. No. 2013-06, § 1, 9-12-13)
Sec. 9-36 Through Sec. 9-39 Reserved for Future Use.
Division III. Regulations To Protect the Public Water System From
Contamination.
Sec. 9-40 Cross-Connection Defined.
A cross-connection shall be defined as any physical connection or arrangement
between two (2) otherwise separate systems, one (1) of which contains potable
water from the Town of Dyer, “Town”, water system, and the other, water from a
private source, water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam; gases, or
chemicals, whereby there may be a flow from one (1) system to the other, the
direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the two (2)
systems. (Ord. No. 89-48, § 1, 12-12-89)
Sec. 9-41 Cross-Connection Prohibited.
No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No interconnection
shall be established whereby potable water from a private, auxiliary, or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the Town
may enter the supply or distribution system of the Town, unless such private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of
such supply shall have been approved by the Water Utility Department of the
Town, “Utility” and by the Environmental Management Board in accordance with
Rule 320 IAC 3-9. (Ord. No. 89-48, § 2, 12-12-89)
Sec. 9-42 Inspections and Fees.
It shall be the duty of the Utility to cause inspections to be made of all
properties served by the public water system where cross connections with the
public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and
reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as
established by the Utility. However, inspection shall be mandatory upon
issuance of a permit for reconstruction or remodeling. Inspection shall also be
made at the time of sale of real estate if inspection is required for proper
sewer separation. Inspection fee shall be ten dollars ($10.00). (Ord. No. 89-
48, § 3, 12-12-89)
Sec. 9-43 Right of Entry.
Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the Utility shall have
the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine any property
served by a connection to the public water system of the Town for cross-
connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The refusal of access
or refusal of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the
presence of cross-connections. (Ord. No. 89-48, § 4, 12-12-89)
Sec. 9-44 Discontinuance of Water Service.
The Utility is authorized and directed to discontinue water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of this ordinance exists, and to
take such other precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water system. Water service shall be
discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on the owner, lessee, or
occupants of the property or premises where a violation is found or suspected
to exist. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the cross-
connection has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this
Ordinance. (Ord. No. 89-48, § 5, 12-12-89)
Sec. 9-45 Emergency Situations.
It is deemed by the Utility that a cross-connection or any emergency endangers
public health, safety, or welfare and requires immediate action, and a written
finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town and
delivered to the consumer's premises, service may be immediately discontinued.
The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten (10) days of such
emergency discontinuance. (Ord. No. 89-48, § 6, 12-12-89)
Sec. 9-46 Backflow Preventers.
All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals, mortuaries,
wastewater treatment plants, laboratories, and all other hazardous users shall
install and maintain a reduced-pressure-principle backflow preventer in the
main water line serving each building on the premises. The backflow preventer
must be installed in an easily accessible location not subject to flooding or
freezing. (Ord. No. 89-48, § 7, 12-12-89)
Sec. 9-47 Licensed Plumber Required.
Installation of a cross-connection control or backflow prevention device shall
only be performed by a duly licensed plumbing contractor. (Ord. No. 89-48, § 8,
12-12-89)
Sec. 9-48 Regulations Supplemental to State Uniform Plumbing Code.
This Ordinance does not supersede the State Uniform Plumbing Code or the Town's
Plumbing Ordinances, but is supplementary to them. (Ord. No. 89-48, § 9, 12-12-
89)
Sec. 9-49 through Sec. 9-54 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IV. Rates and Charges for Use and Service Rendered by Waterworks
System.
Sec. 9-55 Metered Monthly Rates.
There shall be and there are established for use of and service rendered by the
waterworks system of the Town of Dyer, the following rates and charges, based
on the use of water supplied by said waterworks system:
   Metered Rates
   Water Consumed Per Month         Rate Per 1,000 Gallons
   First      2,000 Gallons            $5.800
   Next      8,000 Gallons            $5.25
   Next      20,000 Gallons            $4.92
   Next      70,000 Gallons            $4.59
   Over      100,000 Gallons            $4.24
(Ord. No. 94-18, § 1, 10-17-94; Am. Ord. No. 2009-11, 11-7-09; Am. Ord. No.
2016-27, 12-8-16; Am. Ord. No. 2022-14, 8-17-22; Am. Ord. No. 2022-17, § 1, 9-
21-22)
Sec. 9-56 Minimum Charge.
   Meter Size (Inches)            Rate
      5/8 to 3/4            $ 11.60
      1   (Residential)         $ 11.60
      1   (Non-residential)      $ 27.39
      1¼               $ 43.08
      1½               $ 53.59
      2               $ 83.06
      3               $ 151.85
      4               $ 243.59
      6               $ 472.92
(Ord. No. 94-18, § 1, 10-17-94; Ord. No. 96-30, § 2, 12-10-96; Ord. No. 97-17,
7-8-97; Ord. No 97-20, 9-9-97; Am. Ord. No. 2009-11, 10-7- 09; Am. Ord. No.
2016-27, 12-8-16; Am. Ord. 2017-02, 2-1-17; Am. Ord. No. 2021-17, 8-12-21; Am.
Ord. No. 2022-04, § 1, 2-10-22; Am. Ord. No. 2022-14, 8-17-22; Am. Ord. No.
2022-17, § 1, 9-21-22)
Sec. 9-57 Fire Protection Charges - Hydrant Rental.
Private Hydrants - per hydrant - per annum:      $493.50
   Municipal Hydrant:
   Size of Meter (Inches)      Monthly Charge
   5/8 - 1               $ 6.50
    1 1/2               $ 32.65
    2               $ 52.25
    3               $ 97.95
    4               $163.30
    6               $326.90
    8               $466.70
(Ord. No. 94-18, § 1, 10-17-94; Ord. No. 2008-24, 12-17-08; Am. Ord. No. 2009-
11, 10-7-09; Am. Ord. No. 2016-27, 12-8-16; Am. Ord. No. 2022-14, 8-17-22; Am.
Ord. No. 2022-17, § 1, 9-21-22)
Sec. 9-58 Fire Sprinkler Connection.
   Connection (Inches)         Per Annum
    2               $ 54.75
    3               $123.20
    4                $ 219.00
    6                $492.75
     8                $875.95
   10               $1,368.75
(Ord. No. 94-18, § 1, 10-17-94; Am. Ord. No. 2009-11, 10-7-09; Am. Ord. No.
2016-27, 12-8-16; Am. Ord. No. 2022-14, 8-17-22; Am. Ord. No. 2022-17, § 1, 9-
21-22)
Sec. 9-59 Temporary Users.
Water furnished to temporary users such as contractors, circuses, etc., shall
be charged on the basis of the metered gallon rates hereinbefore set forth as
estimated and established by the Waterworks Superintendent. (Ord. No. 87-34, §
1[e], 6-14-89)
Sec. 9-60 Late Payment Charge.
All bills for water services not paid within fifteen (15) days from the due
date thereof, as stated in such bills, shall be subject to the collection or
deferred payment charge of ten percent (10%) on the first three dollars ($3.00)
plus three percent (3%) on the excess over three dollars ($3.00). (Ord. No. 94-
18, § 1, 10-17-94)
Sec. 9-61 Water-Non-Recurring Charges.
   Water Non-recurring Charges                  Amount
   Tap Fee - 5/8 inch - ¾ inch                     $375.00
   Tap Fee - 1 inch                        $450.00
   Larger than 1 inch                        Cost; no less than $450.00
   Disconnection Charge                     $ 50.00
   Reconnection Charge                     $ 50.00
   Bad Check Charge                        $ 20.00
      Credited to Water                     $ 10.00
      Credited to Sewer                     $ 10.00
   Manual Meter Reading Surcharge Fee            $ 75.00 per month (effective
October 1, 2016)
                               (See Sec.
9-30)
(Ord. No. 94-18, § 1, 10-17-94; Am. Ord. No. 2003-28, 11-18-03; Am. Ord. No.
2009-11, 10-7-09; Am. Ord. 2013-12, § 2, 11-14-13; Am. Ord. No. 2016-19, § 2,
7-14-16)
Sec. 9-62 Customer Deposits.
   Customer Deposits:                     Amount
   Residential                        $ 40.00
   Retail under 1,500 sq. ft                  $ 40.00
   Retail over 1,500 sq. ft                  $100.00
   Beauty shop, barber shop, and industrial          $200.00
   Restaurant, laundromat, nursing home            $400.00
   Water Hydrant Connection Permit Fee            $ 7.00
   Meter Accuracy Test after one test per year         $ 10.00
   Temporary water user
      First four months                  $ 70.00
      Each month thereafter               $ 28.00
   Late Payment Charge                  10% of first $3.00, plus 3% of amount
over $3.00
(Ord. No. 94-18, § 1, 10-17-94; Am. Ord. No. 2009-11, 10-7-09)
Sec. 9-63 Reasonable Return.
The Town elects to earn a reasonable return on the waterworks utility plant.
(Ord. No. 94-18, § 2, 10-17-94)
Sec. 9-64 Payments in Lieu of Taxes.
The Town elects to receive payments in lieu of taxes from the waterworks. (Ord.
No. 94-18, § 3, 10-17-94)
Sec. 9-65 Effective Date. 6
The rates and charges set out in this ordinance shall become effective only
after said rates and charges are approved by the Indiana Utility Regulatory
Commission. (Ord. No. 94-18, § 5, 10-17-94)
                           
6   Editor's Note: The Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission approved the
schedule of rates and charges on January 4, 1989.
Sec. 9-66 Penalties.
Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision, rule or
regulation of this ordinance, or any amendment thereof, or act supplementary
thereto, hereafter passed, wherein no penalty is fixed shall be subject to a
fine of not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each such offense and where there is a continuing
violation of any rule or provision and notice is given such patron thereof,
each day that such patron shall continue to violate the same thereafter shall
be deemed and taken as a separate offense and punishable by a separate fine in
the amount above provided. All fines, penalties for delinquencies, installments
of water rentals, charges for shutting off and turning on the water and all
permit fees and other charges made water patrons under the provisions of this
ordinance or acts hereafter passed pertaining to the waterworks system when
collected, shall be paid over to the Town's Clerk-Treasurer, and shall belong
to, and be credited to the water works fund of the Town. (Ord. No. 89-15, 5-9-
89)
Sec. 9-67 System Development Charges.
A system development charge will be collected from new customers of the Town
municipal waterworks in accordance with the following schedule:
 
                   Meter Size
                   5/8"  1"    1-1/2" 2"     3"     4"
Ratio               1.0   1.0   5.0    8.0    15.0   25.0
Year                System Development Charges
2010 and thereafter 1,665 1,665 8,325  13,320 24,975 41,262
 
(Ord. No. 2006-10, 8-16-06)
Sec. 9-68 through Sec. 9-69 Reserved for Future Use.
Division V. Other Regulations.
Sec. 9-70 Swimming Pool-When Assessment Waived.
   a.   Any resident who applies for and obtains a building permit for
construction of a swimming pool shall be enacted to fill the pool one (1) time
within fifteen (15) days after completion of construction of said pool without
assessment of a sewer charge on the gallons used to fill the pool.
   b.   Any resident of the Town of Dyer with an existing swimming pool shall
be permitted to fill the pool one (1) time each year between May 15 and June 15
without assessment of a sewer charge on the gallons used to fill the pool.
(Ord. No. 89-19, 5-9-89)
Sec. 9-71 Information to be Filed With Clerk-Treasurer.
Any resident desiring to fill a pool without assessment of a sewer charge on
the gallons used shall serve written notification to the Clerk-Treasurer's
office, which shall state the resident's name and address, and the present
reading on the water meter. The resident shall have seventy two (72) hours to
fill the pool at which time said resident shall present a statement to the
Clerk-Treasurer as to the present reading on the resident's water meter.
Provided the resident complies with these conditions, the resident shall not be
assessed a sewage charge for water used during the seventy two (72) hour period
granted to fill the pool.
(Ord. No. 89-19, 5-9-89)
Sec. 9-72 Sprinkling Regulations.
   a.   In order to insure adequate supplies of water for the Town of Dyer,
Lake County, Indiana, that the following regulations shall apply during the
summer months, or other emergencies as determined by the Town Council.
      1.   That all residences, businesses or owners of property having an even
numbered street address shall sprinkle yards, gardens, flowers or other areas
only on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.
      2.   That all residences, businesses or owners of property having an odd
numbered street address shall sprinkle yards, gardens, flowers or other areas
only on Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays.
      3.   That due to the extra heavy water demand on Mondays as a result of
washing and hydrant flushing, there shall be no sprinkling on Mondays.
      4.   That in the event of a severe water shortage, a sprinkling ban will
be put into effect. At that time all sprinkling or other outside hose usage
will cease until such time as determined by the Town Council. (Ord. No. 81-30,
§ 1-4, 7-14-81)
   b.   Any person or firm who violates the terms and provisions of this
ordinance shall be fined in an amount not less than Twenty Dollars ($20.00) and
not more than Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00). Each day a violation occurs is a
separate offense.
(Ord. No. 84-25, § 5, 6-12-84)
Sec. 9-73 through Sec. 9-79 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 3. STORM WATER MANAGEMENT. 7
                            
7   This Article is also addressed in §§ 2-68 through 2-71 of this Code.
Division I. General Information.
Sec. 9-80 Authority and Title.
This ordinance is adopted in accordance with statutory authority granted to the
Town of Dyer Town Council under "Home Rule" as well as the "Indiana Drainage
Code", and further is required by I.C. 36-9-28.5, I.C. 36-9-27-69.5, Phase II
of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) program (FR Doc.
99-29181) authorized by the 1972 amendments to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management's (IDEM) Rule 13 (327 IAC 15-13), and
IDEM's Rule 5 (327 IAC 15-5). Based on this authority and these requirements,
along with the Town of Dyer, Indiana Stormwater Technical Standards Manual this
ordinance regulates:
   (a)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows into the stormwater
drainage system.
   (b)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to development and
redevelopment of lands located within the Town of Dyer, Indiana's MS4 boundary
(corporate limits).
   (c)   The drainage control systems installed during construction and other
parcels of land.
   (d)   Erosion and sediment control systems installed during construction and
grading of lots and other parcels of land.
   (e)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems.
   (f)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems.
   (g)   Land disturbing activities affecting wetlands.
This ordinance is titled the Town of Dyer Stormwater Management Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-80.1 Applicability and Exemptions.
This ordinance regulates all development and redevelopment occurring within the
Town of Dyer, Indiana. No building permit may be issued and no land disturbance
started for any construction in a development, as defined in Appendix A
attached to Ord. 2021-32, until the plans required by this ordinance for such
construction have been accepted in writing by the Town of Dyer Planning, Zoning
and Building Department. With the exception of the requirements of Chapter Two
and Chapter Seven, Division IV of this ordinance, the following developments of
properties are exempt from the provisions of this ordinance:
   (a)   Single-family dwelling houses and duplexes in accepted subdivisions,
and land-disturbing activities affecting less than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet of area;
   (b)   Agricultural land disturbing activities;
   (c)   Mining activities; and
   (d)   Timber harvesting activities.
In addition to the requirements of this ordinance, compliance with all
applicable ordinances of the Town of Dyer as well as with applicable Federal or
State of Indiana statutes and regulations is required. Unless otherwise stated,
all other specifications in this ordinance refer to the most recent edition
available.
The Stormwater Management Board (SWMB) has the authority to modify, grant
exemptions, and/or waive any and all the requirements of this ordinance and its
associated Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-
21)
Sec. 9-80.2 Background.
On December 8, 1999, Phase II of the NPDES permit program was published in the
Federal Register. The NPDES program, as authorized by the 1972 amendments to
the Clean Water Act, controls water pollution by regulating point sources that
discharge pollutants into waters of the United States. Phase II of NPDES
requires permit coverage for stormwater discharges from regulated small
municipal separate storm sewer systems (MS4s) and for small construction
activity that results in the disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre.
This Federal regulation went into effect March 10, 2003. In response to Phase
II of NPDES, IDEM enacted Rule 13 (327 IAC 15-13) and revised Rule 5 (327 IAC
15-5). Under these new State and Federal regulations, the Town of Dyer must
establish a mechanism for regulating stormwater quantity and quality
management. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-80.3 Findings.
The Town of Dyer Town Council finds that:
   (a)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within, and
downstream of the Town of Dyer are at times subjected to flooding;
   (b)   Flooding impacts the lives and property of the public and also the
natural resources of the region;
   (c)   Land development may alter the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, increased flooding,
increased stream channel erosion, and increased sediment transport and
deposition;
   (d)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported and
deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs;
   (e)   Increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff from future development projects
within the Town of Dyer will, absent reasonable regulation and control,
adversely affect Town of Dyer's water bodies and water resources;
   (f)   Pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within the Town of
Dyer will, absent reasonable regulation, monitoring, and enforcement, adversely
affect the Town of Dyer's water bodies and water resources;
   (g)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, non-point source pollution, and
illicit sources of pollution can be controlled and minimized by the regulation
of stormwater management;
   (h)   Adopting the standards, criteria, and procedures contained and
referenced in this ordinance and implementing the same will address many of the
adverse effects of stormwater runoff and illicit discharges;
   (i)   Adopting this ordinance is needed for the preservation of the public
health, safety, and welfare, for the conservation of our natural resources, and
for compliance with State and Federal regulations. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-
10-21)
Sec. 9-80.4 Purpose.
The purpose of this ordinance is to provide for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the Town of Dyer through the regulation of
stormwater and non-stormwater discharges into the storm drainage system and to
protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources within the Town of Dyer. This ordinance establishes methods for
managing the quantity and quality of stormwater entering into the stormwater
drainage system to comply with local, State, and Federal requirements. The
objectives of this ordinance are:
   (a)   To reduce the impact to public health and safety caused by excessive
stormwater runoff.
   (b)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from construction site runoff.
   (c)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the stormwater drainage
system from runoff caused by development and re-development.
   (d)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the stormwater drainage system.
   (e)   To establish legal authority to carry out inspection, monitoring,
enforcement and any other applicable procedures necessary to ensure compliance
with this ordinance. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-80.5 Abbreviations and Definitions.
For the purpose of this ordinance, the abbreviations and definitions provided
in Appendix A attached to Ordinance 2021-32 apply. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-
10-21)
Sec. 9-80.6 Responsibility for Administration.
For projects directly impacting a Town of Dyer Stormwater Drainage System, the
SWMB, or its designee, administers, implements, and enforces the provisions of
this ordinance. The SWMB may delegate any powers granted or duties imposed upon
the applicable entity in this ordinance to qualified persons or entities acting
in the beneficial interest of or in the employment of the Town of Dyer. (Ord.
No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-80.7 Conflicting Ordinances.
The provisions of this ordinance are additional requirements to minimum
standards set forth by other local, State, and Federal regulations, and as
supplemental requirements to IDEM's Rule 5 regarding stormwater discharge
associated with construction activity, (327 IAC 15-5), and IDEM's Rule 13
regarding stormwater runoff associated with Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System (MS4) conveyances (327 IAC 15-13). (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-80.8 Interpretation.
Words and phrases in this ordinance have their common and accepted definitions,
except that words and phrases defined in Appendix A attached to Ordinance 2021-
32 have the definitions supplied in that section. Technical words and technical
phrases not defined in this ordinance but that have acquired particular
meanings in law or in technical usage have those technical definitions. (Ord.
No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-80.9 Disclaimer of Liability.
The degree of protection required by this ordinance is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records, engineering, and
scientific methods of study. This ordinance does not imply that land uses
permitted will be free from stormwater damage. This ordinance does not create
liability on the part of the Town of Dyer or any officer, representative, or
employee of it, for any damage, which may result from reliance on this
ordinance or on any administrative decision lawfully made there under.
The words "approve" and "accept", and their common derivations as used in this
ordinance in relation to plans, reports, calculations, and permits mean that
Town of Dyer reviewed the material produced and submitted by the applicant or
its agents for general compliance with this ordinance and the Town of Dyer
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and that such compliance qualifies the
applicant to receive a stormwater management approval or permit. Such an
"approval" or "acceptance" is based on the assumption that the project engineer
has followed all appropriate engineering methods in the design. Any stormwater
quantity (drainage) or water quality problems associated with the project
caused by poor construction by the contractor and/or poor engineering design or
judgment, either onsite or off-site, are the responsibility of the developer
and the project engineer.
Consideration, design, construction, and maintenance of safety measures for
proposed or existing stormwater facilities are the responsibility of the
developer, applicant, and the property owner. Town of Dyer and its officials
and representatives are not responsible for maintenance or liable for any
accidents. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Division II. Prohibited Discharges and Connections.
Sec. 9-81 Applicability and Exemptions.
   (a)   This chapter applies to all discharges entering the stormwater
drainage system located or originating within the Town of Dyer, regardless of
whether the discharge originates from developed or undeveloped lands, and
regardless of whether the discharge is generated from an active construction
site or a stabilized site. These discharges include flows from direct or
indirect connections to the stormwater drainage system, illegal dumping, and
contaminated runoff.
   (b)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting, and mining
activities are exempted from the requirements of this chapter unless determined
to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or in excess of
standard practices. Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
   (c)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
acceptance has been granted for the subject discharge to the stormwater
drainage system, is also exempted from this chapter. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-
10-21)
Sec. 9-81.1 Prohibited Discharges and Connections.
   (a)   No person may discharge to a stormwater conveyance any substance other
than stormwater or an exempted discharge. Any person discharging stormwater
must effectively minimize pollutants to the maximum extent practicable through
the use of best management practices (BMPs).
   (b)   The SWMB, as technical advisor to the Town of Dyer, is authorized to
require dischargers to implement pollution prevention measures, utilizing BMPs,
necessary to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants into the Town of
Dyer's stormwater drainage system. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-81.2 Exempted Discharges and Connections.
Notwithstanding other requirements in this ordinance, the following categories
of non-stormwater discharges or flows are exempted from the requirements of
this chapter:
   (a)   Water line flushing;
   (b)   Landscape irrigation;
   (c)   Rising ground waters;
   (d)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
   (e)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
   (f)   Discharges from potable water sources;
   (g)   Foundation drains;
   (h)   Air conditioning condensation;
   (i)   Springs;
   (j)   Water from crawl space pumps;
   (k)   Footing drains;
   (l)   Lawn watering;
   (m)   Individual residential car washing;
   (n)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
   (o)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
   (p)   Street wash water;
   (q)   Discharges from firefighting activities;
   (r)   Naturally introduced detritus; and
   (s)   Discharges from wastewater treatment plants. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1,
11-10-21)
Sec. 9-81.3 Storage of Hazardous or Toxic Material.
Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any watercourse,
or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly prohibited. Storage or
stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material on active construction sites must
include adequate protection and/or containment so as to prevent any such
materials from entering any temporary or permanent stormwater conveyance or
watercourse. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-81.4 Private Property Maintenance Duties.
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, must keep and maintain that part of the watercourse located
within their property boundaries, free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation,
and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard
the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee
must maintain existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structures do not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-
10-21)
Sec. 9-81.5 Spill Reporting.
Any person who discharges into a stormwater conveyance or any water body any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge must immediately
inform the Town of Dyer Fire Department concerning the discharge. A written
report concerning the discharge must be submitted to the Town of Dyer Fire
Department, the Town of Dyer Public Works Department and IDEM, by the
dischargers, within five (5) days after the discharge. The written report must
specify:
   (a)   The composition and cause of the discharge.
   (b)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge.
   (c)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge.
   (d)   All measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence.
   (e)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report.
   (f)   The name and telephone number of a primary contact person for
information on the matter.
A properly reported discharge is an affirmative defense from a civil infraction
proceeding brought under this ordinance against a discharger for such
discharge. It is not, however, a defense to a legal action brought to obtain an
injunction, to obtain recovery of costs for cleanup or containment or to obtain
other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge is
properly reported only if the discharger complies with all the requirements of
this section. This requirement does not relieve discharger from notifying other
entities as required by State or Federal regulations. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1,
11-10-21)
Sec. 9-81.6 Inspection and Monitoring.
   (a)   Storm Drainage System. The Town of Dyer Department of Public Works,
the SWMB, or its designee has the authority to periodically inspect any portion
of the storm drainage system under the Town of Dyer's control, in an effort to
detect and eliminate illicit connections and discharges into the system. This
inspection may include a screening of discharges from outfalls connected to the
system in order to determine if prohibited flows are being conveyed into the
storm drainage system.
   (b)   Illicit Discharge Incidents. The Town of Dyer Public Works Department,
the Town of Dyer Police Department or its designee may inspect and obtain
stormwater samples from private properties to investigate suspected origins of
illicit discharges in compliance with the requirements of this ordinance. Upon
request, the subject discharger must allow the Town of Dyer Public Works
Department, the Town of Dyer Police Department or its designee to enter upon
the premises of the subject discharger at all hours necessary for the purposes
of such inspection or sampling and place on the subject discharger's property
the equipment or devices used for such sampling or inspection. Identified
illicit connections or discharges are subject to enforcement action as
described in Division VIII of this ordinance.
   (c)   New Development and Re-Development. The Town of Dyer Public Works
Department and the SWMB, or its designee, has the authority to inspect new
development and re-development sites to verify that all on-site stormwater
conveyances and connections to the storm drainage system or facility are in
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Division III. Stormwater Quantity Management.
Sec. 9-82 Applicability and Exemptions.
The storage and controlled release rate of stormwater runoff is required for
all new development and redevelopment located within the corporate limits of
the Town of Dyer. The SWMB or its designee, after thorough investigation and
evaluation, may waive the requirement of controlled runoff for minor
subdivisions and parcelization. Additional exemptions regarding the detention
requirements are provided under Sec.
9-82.1(a)(5). (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-82.1 Policy on Stormwater Quantity Management.
   (a)   Detention Policy. Most streams and drainage channels serving the Town
of Dyer do not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey stormwater runoff
resulting from continued urbanization. Accordingly, except for situations
provided in Sections (3) and (4) (below), the storage and controlled release of
excess stormwater runoff are required for all developments and redevelopments
(as defined in Appendix A attached to Ordinance 2021-32) located within the
Town of Dyer.
      (1)   General Release Rates.
         a.   In general, the post-development release rates for developments
up to and including the 100-year return period storm may not exceed 0.2 cfs per
acre of development. For sites where the pre-developed area has more than one
(1) outlet, the release rate should be computed based on pre-developed
discharge to each outlet point. The computed release rate for each outlet point
may not be exceeded at the respective outlet point even if the post developed
conditions would involve a different arrangement of outlet points.
         b.   The corresponding volume of the detention basin associated with
the allowable release rate is determined using the average end area method.
         c.   A storage adjustment factor of 1.38 applies to new detention
storage within the Briar Ridge Subdivision. A Memorandum of Understanding
descripting the storage adjustment factor and how it applies is provided in
Appendix B attached to Ordinance 2021-32.
      (2)   Site-Specific Release Rates for Sites with Depressional Storage.
         a.   For sites where depressional storage exists, the general release
rates provided above may have to be further reduced. If depressional storage
exists at the site, site-specific release rates must be calculated according to
methodology described in the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual, accounting for the depressional storage by modeling it as a pond whose
outlet is a weir at an elevation that stormwater can currently overflow the
depressional storage area. Post-developed release rate for sites with
depressional storage are the 100-year pre-developed peak runoff rate accounting
for the depressional storage. In no case may the calculated site-specific
release rates exceed general release rates provided above.
         b.   For determining the post-developed peak runoff rate, the
depressional storage must be assumed to be filled unless the SWMB agrees,
through dedicated easement, that the noted storage will be preserved in
perpetuity.
      (3)   Management of Off-site Runoff. Runoff from all upstream tributary
areas (off-site land areas) can be bypassed around the detention/retention
facility. Such runoff can be bypassed through the detention/retention facility
through an overflow weir sized to handle the upstream and site tributary area.
Unless the pond is being designed as a regional detention facility, the primary
outlet structure is sized and the invert elevation of the emergency overflow
weir determined according to the on-site runoff only. Once the size and
location of primary outlet structure and the invert elevation of the emergency
overflow weir are determined by considering on-site runoff, the 100-year pond
elevation is determined by routing the entire inflow, on-site and off-site,
through the pond.
      (4)   Downstream Restrictions.
         a.   In the event the downstream receiving channel or storm sewer
system is inadequate to accommodate the post-developed release rate provided
above, then the allowable release rate is reduced because of the capacity of
the receiving downstream channel or storm sewer system. Additional detention,
as determined by the SWMB, must store that portion of the runoff exceeding the
capacity of the receiving storm sewers or watercourses. When such downstream
restrictions are suspected, the SWMB may require additional analysis to
determine the receiving system's downstream capacity.
         b.   If the proposed development makes up only a portion of the
undeveloped watershed upstream of the limiting restriction, the allowable
release rate for the development shall be in direct proportion to the ratio of
its drainage area to the drainage area of the entire watershed upstream of the
restriction.
      (5)   Direct Release Provisions. Due to uncertainties of future
development patterns and the associated proposed stormwater quantity and
quality management systems within a watershed, it is the policy of the SWMB to
discourage direct release of runoff from a new development or redevelopment
without providing detention. However, where a watershed plan has been adopted
by the SWMB, the detention requirements may be waived. In the event discharge
from a new development is not routed through a detention pond, it must be
subtracted from the allowable release rate from the pond. The total release
rate for the site must be calculated for both controlled and uncontrolled
areas, and this total release rate must not exceed 0.2 cfs/acre of development.
      (6)   Fee-in-Lieu of On-Site Stormwater Detention Storage.
         a.   The SWMB may approve the payment of a fee-in-lieu of on-site
stormwater detention storage to satisfy all or part of the required stormwater
detention storage volume for a development. In addition to approval from the
SWMB, the applicant must demonstrate that the downstream stormwater management
system has adequate capacity and the proposed development does not result in
increased flood damages for downstream properties.
         b.   Fee-in-lieu of on-site stormwater storage is the lesser of: 1)
the fee computed for each acre-foot or part thereof of stormwater storage
approved in accordance with the SWMB; or 2) the estimated construction cost as
approved by the SWMB for the proposed development's on-site stormwater storage,
including land costs.
         c.   Fees paid in lieu of on-site stormwater detention storage must be
used to plan, design, construct or improve stormwater management systems.
Priority is given to projects that are located within the watershed for which
the fee was paid.
      (7)   Alternatives to Detention Storage. For a project site that does not
lend itself well for detention storage, the engineer must recommend alternative
methods to control the release rate and avoid downstream impacts. Any
alternative methods require the approval of the SWMB.
   (b)   Grading and Building Pad Elevations.
      (1)   Maximum yard slopes must be 3:1 where soil has been disturbed
during construction processes. Finished floor elevation must be no less than
six (6) inches above finished grade and a minimum of sixteen (16) inches above
the adjacent curb elevation unless the SWMB grants a written waiver.
      (2)   For all structures located in the Special Flood Hazards Area (SFHA)
as shown on the FEMA maps, the lowest floor elevations (including basements) of
all residential, commercial, or industrial buildings, must be two (2) feet
above the 100-year flood elevation.
      (3)   The Lowest Adjacent Grade for residential, commercial, or
industrial buildings outside a FEMA designated floodplain must have two (2)
feet of freeboard above the flooding source's 100-year flood elevation under
proposed conditions, unless the flooding source is a rear-yard swale. When the
flooding source is a rear-yard swale with more than one hundred (100) acres of
tributary area, the Lowest Adjacent Grade for residential, commercial, or
industrial buildings must have two (2) feet of freeboard above the 100-year
flood elevation under proposed conditions. For rear-yard swales with less than
one hundred (100) acres of tributary area, the freeboard requirement must equal
one (1) foot.
      (4)   For areas outside a FEMA designated floodplain, the Lowest Adjacent
Grade (including walkout basement floor elevation) for all residential,
commercial, or industrial buildings adjacent to ponds must be set a minimum of
two (2) feet above the 100-year pond or watercourse elevation or two (2) feet
above the emergency overflow weir elevation, whichever is higher. In addition
to the Lowest Adjacent Grade requirements, any basement floor must be at least
a foot above the permanent water level (normal pool elevation).
      (5)   The 100-year overflow paths throughout the development, whether
shown on FEMA maps or not, must be shown as hatched area on the plans and
thirty (30) feet along the centerline of the flow path contained within
permanent drainage easements. No fences or landscaping may be constructed
within the easement areas that may impede the free flow of stormwater and
maintenance of stormwater conveyances unless approved by the SWMB. These areas
must be maintained by the property owners or be designated as common areas
maintained by a homeowner's association. The Lowest Adjacent Grade for all
residential, commercial, or industrial buildings must be set a minimum of two
(2) feet above the noted overflow path/ponding elevation, calculated based on
all contributing drainage areas, on-site and off-site, in their proposed or
reasonably anticipated land use and with storm pipe system assumed completely
plugged. If the total contributing drainage area, on-site and off-site, is less
than one hundred (100) acres, the Lowest Adjacent Grade must be set at a
minimum of one (1) foot above the noted the overflow path/ponding elevation.
      (6)   Property owners are responsible to maintain the natural features on
their property and to take preventive measures against any and all erosion and
deterioration of natural or constructed features on their property.
   (c)   Acceptable Outlet and Adjoining Property Impact Policies.
      (1)   Design and construction of the stormwater facility must provide for
the discharge of the stormwater runoff from off-site land areas as well as the
stormwater from the area being developed (on-site land areas) to an acceptable
outlet(s) (as determined by the SWMB) having capacity to receive upstream (off-
site) and on-site drainage. The flow path from the development outfall(s) to a
regulated drain or natural watercourse (as determined by the SWMB) must be
provided on an exhibit that includes topographic information. Any existing
field tile encountered during the construction must also be incorporated into
the proposed stormwater drainage system or tied to an acceptable outlet. In
addition, no activities conducted, as part of the development may obstruct the
free flow of floodwaters from an upstream property.
      (2)   Where the outfall from the stormwater drainage system of any
development diverting flows from the natural drainage course through real
estate owned by adjacent property owners reaching a regulated drain or
watercourse, such drainage system may not be accepted until all owners of real
estate and tenants crossed by the outfall consent in writing to the use of
their real estate through a recorded easement approved by the SWMB.
      (3)   If an adequate outlet is not located on site, then off-site
drainage improvements may be required. Those improvements may include, but are
not limited to, extending storm sewers, bank stabilization, clearing, dredging
and removal of obstructions to open drains or natural watercourses, and the
removal or replacement of undersized culvert pipes, as required by the SWMB.
   (d)   No Net Loss Floodplain Storage Policy.
      (1)   Due to potential impacts of floodplain loss on peak flows in
streams and on the environment, disturbance to floodplains should be avoided.
When the avoidance of floodplain disturbance is not practical, the natural
functions of floodplain should be preserved to the maximum extent possible.
      (2)   Compensatory excavation 1.5 times the floodplain storage lost is
required for all activities within a riverine floodplain. Compensatory
excavation within a non-riverine floodplain shall be equal to the volume of
storage displaced. The SWMB may reduce the compensation ratio, based on
extenuating circumstances, for a specific project, for specific written
reasons.
   (e)   Culvert Considerations. The design of a culvert should account for
many different engineering and technical aspects at the culvert site and
adjacent areas. Accordingly, when designing a culvert in the Town of Dyer, the
design engineer must look at any potential impact within the area of the
proposed culvert, including upstream and downstream effects. (Ord. No. 2021-32,
§1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-82.2 Calculation and Design Standards and Specifications.
The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater facilities must meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications outlined in the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. The methods and procedures in the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual
are consistent with the policy stated above. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-82.3 Drainage Easement Requirements.
   (a)   Subdivisions.
      (1)   All new channels must have a minimum of twenty-five (25) feet from
top of the bank on each side and the ditch width must be designated on the
record plat as a Drainage Easement.
      (2)   All new channels, drain lines equal to or greater than twelve (12)
inches in diameter, inlet and outlet structures of detention and retention
ponds, and all appurtenances as required by this Chapter, that are installed
must be contained within a minimum thirty (30) feet of drainage easement
fifteen (15) feet from centerline on each side). New drain lines refer to all
sub-surface stormwater piping, tubing, manholes, inlets, catch basins, risers,
etc.
      (3)   All new drain lines, twelve (12) inches or larger in diameter must
be placed within a 30-foot drainage easement (fifteen (15) feet from centerline
on each side) and must be designated on the record plat as 30-foot Drainage
Easement. Wider easements may be required by the SWMB when the depth of pipe is
greater than six (6) to ten (10) feet, depending on the pipe diameter.
      (4)   All rear-yard swales and emergency overflow paths associated with
detention facilities must be contained within a minimum of thirty (30) feet
width (fifteen (15) feet from centerline on each side) of drainage easement.
      (5)   Emergency overflow paths associated with detention facilities must
be contained within a minimum of thirty (30) feet width (fifteen (15) feet from
centerline on each side) of drainage easement.
      (6)   All maintenance easements must have a minimum of thirty (30) feet
beyond the actual footprint (top of the bank) of stormwater detention
facilities must be designated as drainage easement. A minimum 30-foot width
easement is also required as access easement from a public right-of- way to the
facility, unless the stormwater detention facility is immediately next to a
public right-of-way.
      (7)   The SWMB, or authorized representative has the right of entry over
and upon land lying within a 30-foot drainage easement. The SWMB, has authority
to reduce the drainage easements.
      (8)   Any crossing or encroachment of a Drainage Easement requires
application and acceptance from the SWMB.
   (b)   Non-Subdivisions. Where the Town of Dyer is responsible for
maintenance of the drainage system, drainage easements of fifteen (15) feet
from the top of bank on each side of the channel or each side of the drain line
centerline must be dedicated to the Town of Dyer. In addition, a minimum of 10-
foot width of vegetative filter strip, as defined in the Town of Dyer
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, must be provided and maintained along
top-of-bank, on each side, by the owner within these easements.
   (c)   Municipalities and Schools. All new channels, swales, drain lines,
inlet and outlet structures of detention and retention ponds, and appurtenances
as required by this chapter, that are installed on municipal property must be
constructed, maintained and repaired by the entity installing them. The design
must meet the standards of the Town of Dyer Stormwater Management Ordinance,
the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards Manual and the SWMB for sizing
and installation. Any off-site portion of the drainage system must be within
easements and have clearly defined maintenance agreements approved by the SWMB.
(Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-82.4 Placement of Utilities.
No utility company may disturb existing stormwater drainage facilities without
the consent of the SWMB. All existing drainage facilities have priority rights
and damage to said facilities results in penalties as prescribed in Division
VIII of this ordinance. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-82.5 Inspection, Maintenance, Record Keeping, and Reporting.
   (a)   The SWMB or its designee has the authority to conduct inspections to
insure full compliance with the provisions of this ordinance, the Town of Dyer
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of an
approved Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP).
   (b)   The SWMB or its designee also has the authority to perform, post-
construction inspections of all public or privately owned stormwater
facilities. The inspections must cover physical conditions, available storage
capacity, and the operational condition of key facility elements. The owner of
a stormwater facility must maintain it in good condition, in accordance with
the terms and conditions of an approved SWPPP, and shall not be subsequently
altered, revised or replaced except in accordance with the approved plan, or in
accordance with approved amendments or revisions to the plan. If deficiencies
are found during the inspection, the Town of Dyer must notify the owner of the
facility and the owner must take all necessary measures to correct such
deficiencies. If the owner fails to correct the deficiencies within the allowed
time period, as specified in the notification letter, the SWMB or its designee
or other applicable entity may undertake the work and collect from the owner
using lien rights if necessary.
   (c)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving more
than one (1) lot must be appropriately documented, unless responsibility is
formally accepted by the Town of Dyer and determined in writing before the
SWPPP is approved. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Division IV. Stormwater Pollution Prevention for Construction Sites.
Sec. 9-83 Applicability and Exemptions.
Any project, located within the Town of Dyer corporate limits that includes
clearing, grading, excavation, or other land disturbing activities may require
an approved Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) prior to commencement.
The following land disturbing activities are subject to the requirements of
this ordinance or may be exempt:
   (a)   Land disturbance of one (1) acre or more shall require an approved
SWPPP for issuance of a Town of Dyer Stormwater Permit.
   (b)   Land disturbance of less than one (1) acre that is part of a larger
common plan of development that will disturb one (1) or more acres must
implement the typical lot detail for erosion and sediment control as specified
in the SWPPP.
   (c)   Land disturbance of less than one (1) acre shall implement standard
erosion and sediment control for individual building lots as specified in the
IDEM Storm Water Quality Manual.
   (d)   Agricultural activities are exempt from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (e)   Timber harvesting activities are exempt from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (f)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under 329
IAC 10. Exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
   (g)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34. Exempt from the
requirements of this chapter.
   (h)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant to a
permit issued by IDEM under 329 IAC 10 that contains equivalent stormwater
requirements, including the expansion of landfill boundaries and construction
of new cells either within or outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
Exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
Owners of individual lot(s) located within a larger permitted project site must
comply with the terms and conditions of the SWPPP approved for the larger
project site. Plans containing multiple lots must include detailed erosion and
sediment control measures for a typical individual lot. In addition, these
individual lots must submit Individual Lot Plot Plan Permit applications prior
to receiving a building permit. Details of the permitting process are contained
in Chapter 7.
The property owner is responsible to submit a Notice of Intent (NOI), SWPPP and
Notice of Termination (NOT) to the Town of Dyer Planning, Zoning & Building
Department in accordance with this ordinance. The property owner or permit
holder is also responsible to ensure compliance with this ordinance,
implementation of the SWPPP and provide the Town of Dyer Planning, Zoning &
Building Department with a request for a NOT inspection upon permanent
stabilization of the project site. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-83.1 Policy on Stormwater Pollution Prevention.
Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites depends on a
combination of preventing movement of soil from its original position (erosion
control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a water body (sediment
control), and proper on-site materials handling. The property owner must submit
a SWPPP to the Town of Dyer. The following principles apply to all land-
disturbing activities and should be considered in preparing a SWPPP with the
Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (a)   Minimize the potential for soil erosion by designing a development to
fit the topography and soils of the site. Deep cuts and fills in areas with
steep slopes should be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours should
be followed as closely as possible.
   (b)   Existing natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent, within twenty-five (25) feet of top of
bank, to watercourses and lakes also should be left undisturbed wherever
possible. Areas of bare soil, that are scheduled or likely to be left inactive
for fourteen (14) days or more must be temporarily or permanently stabilized
with measures appropriate for the season to reduce erosion potential.
Alternative measures to site stabilization may be acceptable if the property
owner or its representative can demonstrate that it has implemented and
maintained erosion and sediment control measures adequate to prevent sediment
discharge from the inactive area.
   (c)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence so
that the smallest practical area of land is exposed for the shortest practical
period of time during development.
   (d)   The length and steepness of designed slopes should be minimized to
reduce erosion potential drainage channels and swales must be designed and
adequately protected so that their final gradients and resultant velocities
will not cause erosion in the receiving channel or at the outlet. Methods for
determining acceptable velocities are included in the Town of Dyer Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
   (e)   Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the project site
must be treated by erosion and sediment control measures appropriate to
minimize sedimentation. The property owner must provide stable and erosion-
resistant construction site access point (i.e., crushed stone, slag, aggregate,
etc.) at all points of construction traffic ingress and egress to the project
site.
   (f)   The property owner must (1) implement appropriate measures to prevent
wastes or unused building materials, including, garbage, debris, packaging
material, fuels and petroleum products, hazardous materials or wastes, cleaning
wastes, wastewater, concrete truck washout, and other substances from being
carried from a project site by runoff or wind; (2) identify areas where
concrete truck washout is permissible and clearly post such identification at
appropriate areas of the site; (3) manage and dispose of wastes and unused
building materials in accordance with all applicable State statutes and
regulations; and (4) implement proper storage and handling of materials such as
fuels or hazardous wastes, and spill prevention and cleanup measures to
minimize the potential for pollutants to contaminate surface or ground water or
degrade soil quality.
   (g)   The property owner must ensure that public or private roadways are
kept clear of accumulated sediment that is a result of runoff or tracking. Bulk
clearing of accumulated sediment may not include flushing the area with water.
Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in
accordance with all applicable statutes and regulations.
   (h)   Collected runoff leaving a project site must be either discharged
directly into a well-defined, stable receiving channel, or diffused and
released to adjacent property without causing an erosion or pollutant problem
to the adjacent property owner. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-83.2 Calculations and Design Standards and Specifications.
In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of
determining applicability of this ordinance to the project, the following
guidelines should be used:
   (a)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for example,
road extensions, sewer, water, and other utilities) to a land disturbing
project site, must be considered as a part of the total land disturbance
calculation for the project site, when the activity is under the control of the
property owner.
   (b)   Strip developments will be considered as one (1) project site and must
comply with this chapter unless the total combined disturbance on all
individual lots is less than one (1) acre and is not part of a larger common
plan of development or sale.
   (c)   To determine if project sites are regulated by this ordinance, the
area of land disturbance is calculated by adding the total area of land
disturbance as determined by the following:
      (1)   For each single-family residential lot, the total lot size is
calculated as being disturbed.
      (2)   For each industrial, commercial or multifamily lot, the total lot
size is calculated as being disturbed.
      (3)   For improvements, such as, roads, utilities, or common areas, the
entire disturbed area is calculated using the right-of-way/easement width.
The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites must meet the
design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual, the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual, and the product guidance/specifications of the manufacturer. The
methods and procedures included in these two references are consistent with the
above stated policy and meet the requirements of IDEM's CSGP Permit. A copy of
the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual is available through IDEM.
The design requirements that apply to all land-disturbing activities and that
must be considered in the selection, design, and implementation of all
stormwater quality and management measures contained in the SWPPP are contained
in the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. (Ord. No. 2021-32,
§1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-83.3 Inspection, Maintenance, Record Keeping, and Reporting.
The property owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this
ordinance, all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater
runoff.
SWMB or designee has the authority to conduct inspections of the site to ensure
full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the terms and
conditions of the approved SWPPP.
The property owner must establish a self-monitoring inspection program
conducted by a trained individual to prove effective implementation of the
SWPPP. Evaluations must be completed on a weekly basis or within twenty- four
(24) hours after each measurable (0.5" or greater) storm event. The self-
monitoring evaluation must include the name of the individual performing the
evaluation, the date of the evaluation, problems identified at the project
site, and details of corrective actions. The property owner must provide self-
monitoring inspection documentation to the Town of Dyer within forty-eight (48)
hours of request.
All SWPPP inspections are initiated following the submittal of an NOI and
continue until a NOT has been issued. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Division V. Stormwater Quality Management for Post-Construction.
Sec. 9-84 Applicability and Exemptions.
In addition to the requirements of Chapter 4, the SWPPP, submitted to the Town
of Dyer, must also include post-construction stormwater quality measures. These
measures are incorporated as a permanent feature into the site plan and are
left in place following completion of construction activities to continuously
treat stormwater runoff from the stabilized site. Post-construction water
quality measures must meet the standards specified in the Town of Dyer
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual and the Town of Dyer Stormwater Quality
Management Plan (SWQMP) - Part C: Program Implementation, dated October 2010
and its updates. Any project located within the Town of Dyer corporate limits
that includes clearing, grading, excavation, or other land disturbing
activities resulting in the disturbance of or impact on one (1) acre, or more
of total land area, is subject to the requirements of this chapter. This
includes both new development and redevelopment, and disturbances of less than
one (1) acre of land that are part of a larger common plan of development or
sale if the larger common plan will ultimately disturb one (1) or more acres of
land, within the Town of Dyer.
The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following activities:
   (a)   Agricultural activities.
   (b)   Timber harvesting activities.
   (c)   Construction activities associated with a single family residential
dwelling disturbing less than five (5) acres, when the dwelling is not part of
a larger common plan of development or sale.
   (d)   A single-family residential strip development where the developer
offers for sale or lease without land improvements and the project is not part
of a larger common plan of development of sale.
   (e)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project. The
requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following activities,
provided other applicable state permits contain provisions requiring immediate
implementation of soil erosion control measures.
   (f)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
Indiana Law.
   (g)   Coal mining activities permitted under Indiana Law.
   (h)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant to a
permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
Indiana Law that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
The project site owner is responsible to submit a SWPPP to the Town of Dyer. It
will be the responsibility of the project site owner or permit holder to ensure
proper construction and installation of all permanent structural stormwater
BMPs are in compliance with this ordinance. All property owners of stormwater
quality management facilities must comply with the requirements of this chapter
and this ordinance. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-84.1 Policy on Stormwater Quality Management.
Developed areas, as compared to undeveloped areas, generally have increased
imperviousness, decreased infiltration rates, increased runoff rates, and
increased concentrations of pollutants such as fertilizers, herbicides,
greases, oil, salts and other pollutants. As new development and redevelopment
continues in Town of Dyer, measures are needed to intercept and filter
pollutants from stormwater runoff prior to reaching regional creeks, streams,
and rivers. Through the use of Best Management Practices (BMP), the Town of
Dyer has adopted a policy that the control of stormwater quality will be based
on the management of Total Suspended Solids (TSS).
Another major source of pollution in many Indiana streams, including those
within the corporate boundaries of the Town of Dyer, is the streambank erosion
associated with urbanizing watersheds. Stream channels develop their shape in
response to the volume and rate of runoff that they receive from their
contributing watersheds. Research has shown that in hydrologically stable
watersheds, the stream flow responsible for most of the shaping of the channel
(called the bankfull flow) occurs between every one (1) to two (2) years. When
land is developed, the volume and rate of runoff from that land increases for
these comparatively small flooding events that are not normally addressed by
the detention practices and the stream channel will adapt by changing its
shape. As the stream channel works to reach a new stable shape, excess erosion
occurs. As new development and re-development continues within the corporate
boundaries of the Town of Dyer, measures are needed to minimize the impact of
such development or re-development on streambank erosion. Through the use of
appropriate Best Management Practices (BMP's), the volume and rate of runoff
for channel forming flows will be reduced in an attempt to minimize increased
streambank erosion in the receiving streams and channels.
The project site owner must submit to the Town of Dyer, a SWPPP that
demonstrates placement of appropriate BMP(s) from a pre-approved list of BMPs
specified in the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards Manual and SWQMP.
The noted BMPs must be designed, constructed, and maintained according to
guidelines provided or referenced in the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual and SWQMP. Details regarding the procedures and criteria for
consideration of acceptance of BMPs other than those specified in the pre-
approved list are provided in the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual and SWQMP.
Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate practices to
reduce lead, copper, zinc, and polyaromatic hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff.
These requirements apply to all new facilities and existing facilities that
replace their tanks, regardless of the size of the facility.
Discharges from new development and redevelopment sites are not allowed
directly into karst features without pre-treatment. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-
10-21)
Sec. 9-84.2 Calculations and Design Standards and Specifications.
Calculations to determine the total area of land disturbance should follow the
guidelines discussed in Sec.
9-83.2.
The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater quality management measures, or BMPs must meet the design criteria,
standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana Stormwater Quality
Manual, the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, or the SWQMP,
as determined by the SWMB. Where there is a conflict between these manuals, the
SWMB determines which manual controls. The methods and procedures included in
these two (2) references are consistent with the above-stated policy and meet
the requirements of IDEM. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-84.3 Easement Requirements.
All stormwater quality management systems, including detention or retention
basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line filters, infiltration systems,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances located outside of the right-
of-way must be incorporated into permanent easements. For the purposes of
monitoring, inspection, and general maintenance activities, all such systems
must also provide adequate easement width, as detailed in the Town of Dyer
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, beyond the actual footprint of the
stormwater quality management facility as well as a 20-foot wide access
easement from a public right-of-way to each BMP. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-
21)
Sec. 9-84.4 Inspection, Maintenance, Record Keeping, and Reporting.
Post-construction maintenance of stormwater quality facilities is the long-term
responsibility of the facility's owner. The owner must maintain stormwater
quality management facilities in working condition, in accordance with the
operation and maintenance procedures and schedules listed in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual, the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual and SWPPP.
The SWMB or its designee has the authority to perform long-term, post-
construction inspection of all public or privately owned stormwater quality
facilities. The inspections must follow operation and maintenance procedures
included in the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards Manual and SWPPP
for each specific BMP. The inspection must address physical conditions,
available water quality storage capacity and the operational condition of key
facility elements. The inspection report must include noted deficiencies and
required corrective actions. If deficiencies are found during the inspection,
the SWMB or its designee must provide written notice to the owner of the
facility and the owner must take all necessary measures to correct such
deficiencies. If the owner fails to correct the deficiencies within the allowed
time period, as specified in the notice, the SWMB or its designee may undertake
the work and collect from the owner using lien rights if necessary. (Ord. No.
2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Division VI. Development in Wetlands Regulations.
Sec. 9-85 Applicability and Exemptions.
This chapter applies to all land-disturbing activities regulated by this
ordinance. No building permit may issue and no land disturbance started for any
construction in a development, as defined in Appendix A attached to Ordinance
2021-32, identified as containing wetlands until the property owner has
obtained all required state and federal permits or releases related to the
dredging or filling of wetlands. As a pre-condition to receiving a building or
land disturbance permit for a development identified as containing wetlands
where the applicant for the permit does not intend to fill a wetland, such
unaffected wetland must be identified in one of the methods enumerated in
Division III of this Chapter, shown on the proposed development plans, and
submitted to the Town of Dyer along with plans to protect and avoid any
disturbance to such unaffected wetland.
The requirements under this chapter do not apply to the following:
   (a)   Artificially-constructed ponds, drainage ditches, stormwater
retention/detention basins, gravel pits, stone quarries, and treatment lagoons
that exist at the site and that may appear to display wetland-like properties.
   (b)   Wetlands or portions thereof for which federal or state permits for
fill were issued prior to the enactment of this Chapter.
   (c)   Any area or use excluded from local planning and zoning jurisdiction
by federal or state law.
It is the responsibility of the property owner to complete a SWPPP and ensure
that all wetlands identified to be present at the project site are sufficiently
protected and preserved as set forth in this Chapter. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1,
11-10-21)
Sec. 9-85.1 Policy on Wetlands Disturbance Prevention.
It is the public policy of the Town of Dyer to preserve, protect, and conserve
freshwater wetlands, and the benefits derived from them, to prevent the damage
to and destruction of freshwater wetlands, and to regulate use and development
of such wetlands to secure the natural benefits of freshwater wetlands,
consistent with the general welfare and beneficial to economic, social, and
agricultural development of the Town of Dyer. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-85.2 Wetlands Identification (Including Seasonal).
In implementing the terms of this Chapter, any of the following materials
constitute prima facia evidence for the identification, delineation, and
existence of a wetland:
   (a)   National Wetlands inventory (NWI) maps produced or maintained by the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS).
   (b)   Maps produced, or maintained and utilized, by the United States Corps
of Engineers for identification and/or delineation of wetlands.
   (c)   Maps produced, or maintained and utilized, by the United States
Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) for the identification and/or
delineation of wetlands.
   (d)   USDA - NRCS Soil Survey of Lake County hydric soils list.
   (e)   Field investigations performed by the United States Army Corps of
Engineers or private consultants recognized by the Corps as authorities in
wetland identification and delineation.
NOTE: NWI maps are intended to identify potential wetlands. Due to the lack of
field verification, NWI classified wetlands are sometimes erroneously
identified, missed, or misidentified. Additionally, the criteria used in
identifying these wetlands, as established by USFWS, are different from those
currently used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. NWI maps best serve as an
indicator of potential jurisdictional wetlands.
Soil survey maps were developed from actual field investigations by soil
scientists from the NRCS but they address only one (1) of the three (3)
required wetland criteria and may reflect historical conditions rather than
current site conditions.
It is recommended that all sites be field reviewed by a qualified person with
experience in wetland identification in order to determine the presence or
absence of wetlands. This is subject to Army Corps of Engineers approval. (Ord.
No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Division VII. Permit Requirements and Procedures.
Sec. 9-86 Permit Procedures.
This section applies to all development, or redevelopment of land, that results
in land disturbance of one (1) acre or more within the Town of Dyer. Individual
lots with land disturbance less than one (1) acre that are developed within a
larger permitted project site should refer to Section 4 of this chapter for
plan review requirements and procedures.
   (a)   General Procedures.
      (1)   Figure 1 is a flowchart summarizing the plan review/approval
process and can be found at the end of this chapter. The property owner must
submit the Storm Water Permit Application to the Town of Dyer. The application
includes proof of public notice, construction plan sheets, stormwater drainage
technical report, a SWPPP, and any other necessary support information.
Specific information to be included can be found in Section 3 below. Five (5)
copies of each must be submitted to the Town of Dyer. Additionally, a digital
copy of the construction plans is required in a format accepted by the SWMB.
      (2)   After the Town of Dyer receives the application, it will notify the
applicant whether the application was complete or insufficient and ask for
additional information if the application is insufficient. If the application
is complete, the Town of Dyer and its plan review consultants will review it.
Once all comments have been received and review completed, the Town of Dyer
will either approve the project, request modifications, or deny the project. If
the applicant does not agree with or accept the review findings and wishes to
appeal, the Town of Dyer will place the project on the agenda of the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Town of Dyer SWMB, provided the agenda for
the meeting has not yet been advertised or published. If time for public notice
does not allow, the project shall be placed on the following regularly
scheduled meeting of the Town of Dyer SWMB. If the project must go through a
scheduled meeting, the Town of Dyer will furnish the applicant a complete list
of comments and objections to the plans and accompanying data before the
scheduled meeting. At the scheduled meeting, the Town of Dyer will either issue
a permit, request modifications to the construction plans, or deny the project.
      (3)   The project site owner must notify the Town of Dyer and IDEM before
beginning construction. Notification to the Town of Dyer consists of an email
while the notification to IDEM consists of a completed IDEM NOI form. Once a
permit has been issued and the pending construction notifications submitted to
the Town of Dyer and IDEM before the beginning of construction, construction
may begin. Once construction begins, the project owner must monitor
construction activities and inspect all stormwater pollution prevention
measures in compliance with this ordinance and the terms and conditions of the
approved permit. Upon completion of construction activities, a Certification of
Completion and Compliance and as-built plans must be submitted to the Town of
Dyer. Once the construction site has been stabilized and all temporary erosion
and sediment control measures have been removed, written notice must be sent to
the Town of Dyer requesting a termination inspection. The Town of Dyer, or its
representative, will inspect the construction site to verify that the completed
project is fully stabilized and meets the requirements of Town of Dyer's
stormwater ordinance and its technical standards and that the terms and
conditions of the permit. Once the applicant receives a signed copy of the
Termination Inspection Checklist confirming compliance, it must forward a copy
to IDEM along with the required IDEM NOT form. Permits issued by the Town of
Dyer under this scenario expire five (5) years from the date of issuance. If
construction is not completed within five (5) years, an updated permit
application must be submitted to the Town of Dyer and an updated NOI must be
resubmitted to IDEM at least 90 days before expiration.
   (b)   SWPPP Review Time Limits. Under I.C. 13-18-27, an MS4-designated
entity or other review authority such as SWCD must make a preliminary
determination as to whether the construction plan associated with SWPPP is
substantially complete before the end of the tenth (10th) working day after the
day on which the construction plan associated with SWPPP is submitted to the
review authority, in the case of a construction activity site of less than five
(5) acres; or the fourteenth (14th) working day after the day on which the
construction plan associated with SWPPP is submitted to the review authority,
in the case of a construction activity site five (5) acres or larger. Depending
on the outcome of the SWPPP review, the following may apply:
      (1)   No SWPPP review notification received. If the review authority does
not provide notice of its preliminary determination whether the construction
plan is substantially complete within either ten (10) or fourteen (14) days as
noted above, the project site owner may submit a notice of intent letter
including the information required by the IDEM CSGP or this ordinance and the
Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, and, after submission of
the notice of intent letter, may begin the construction project, including the
land-disturbing activities of the construction project.
      (2)   SWPPP not substantially complete. If the review authority provides
notice that the construction plan is not substantially complete, the project
site owner may not submit a notice of intent letter until the review authority
makes a conclusive favorable determination concerning the construction plan
under the IDEM CSGP or this ordinance and the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.
      (3)   Unfavorable SWPPP. If the review authority provides notice that the
construction plan is substantially complete and makes a conclusive unfavorable
determination concerning the construction plan under the IDEM CSGP or this
ordinance and the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, the land-
disturbing activities of the construction project must stop when the review
authority notifies the project site owner of the review authority's conclusive
unfavorable determination concerning the construction plan.
The above time limits apply only to the SWPPP portion of the overall stormwater
permit submittal and do not affect any official or non-official permit review
timelines set by the entity for other aspects of the stormwater permit
application. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §11, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-86.1 Information Requirements.
Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or part of the
informational requirements listed below. Exemptions are detailed in the
"Applicability and Exemptions" Sections of Chapters 2 through 5. If an
applicant claims that a project or activity is exempt from any requirements of
this Ordinance, it must file a justification listing the exemption criteria
met, in lieu of the information requirements listed below. This level of
detailed information is not required for individual lots impacting less than
one (1) acre of land, developed within a larger permitted project site. Review
and acceptance of such lots is covered under Section 4 of this Chapter. The
elements of a permit submittal for a Stormwater Plan approval include: (1) a
Notice of Intent (NOI); (2) proof of publication of a public notice; (3)
construction plans; (4) a stormwater drainage technical report; (5) a
stormwater pollution prevention plan for active construction sites; (6) a post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan; and (7) any other necessary
supporting information as determined by the SWMB. All plans, reports,
calculations, and narratives must be signed and sealed by a professional
engineer licensed in the State of Indiana.
   (a)   Application Checklist. As part of the Town of Dyer Stormwater
Management Permit application package, the application checklist provided in
the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards Manual must be completed by the
applicant and provided along with other required supporting material.
   (b)   Construction Plans. Construction plan sheets (not less than eleven
(11) inches by seventeen (17) inches, but not to exceed twenty-four (24) inches
by thirty-six (36) inches in size) and an accompanying narrative report must
describe and depict the existing and proposed conditions and must be submitted
in digital format acceptable to the SWMB, as well as five (5) hard copies. To
gain an understanding of and to evaluate the relationship between the proposed
improvements for a specific project section or phase and the proposed
improvements for an overall multi-section (or -phased) project, the detailed
information requested in this provision for the first section or phase being
permitted must include an overall project plan that includes the location,
dimensions, and supporting analyses of all detention/retention facilities,
primary conveyance facilities, and outlet conditions. Construction plans need
to include the following detailed items:
      (1)   Title sheet that includes location map, vicinity map, operating
authority, design company name, developer name, and index of plan sheets.
      (2)   A copy of a legal boundary survey for the site, performed in
accordance with Rule 12 of Title 865 of the Indiana Administrative Code or any
other applicable rule or regulation for the subdivision limits, including all
drainage easements and wetlands.
      (3)   A reduced plat or project site map showing the parcel
identification numbers, lot numbers, lot boundaries, easements, and road layout
and names. The reduced map must be legible and submitted on a sheet or sheets
eleven (11) inches by seventeen (17) inches for all phases or sections of the
project site.
      (4)   An existing project site layout must include the following
information:
         a.   A topographic map of the land to be developed and such adjoining
land whose topography may affect the layout or drainage of the development. The
contour intervals shall be one (1) foot. All elevations must be given in either
National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD) or North American Vertical
Datum of 1988 (NAVD). The horizontal datum of topographic map must be based on
Indiana State Plane Coordinates, NAD83. The map must contain a notation
indicating this datum information. The map must also contain:
            1.   If the project site is less than or equal to two (2) acres in
total land area, all topography of land surrounding the site to a distance of
at least one hundred (100) feet.
            2.   If the project site is greater than two (2) acres in total
land area, all topography of land surrounding the site to a distance of at
least two hundred (200) feet.
         b.   Location, name, and normal water level of all relevant wetlands,
lakes, ponds, and water courses on or adjacent to the project site.
         c.   Location of all existing structures on the project site.
         d.   One hundred (100) year floodplains, floodway fringes, floodways,
and date reference information used to establish them, and whether they do not
exist.
         e.   Identification and delineation of vegetative cover such as grass,
weeds, brush, and trees on the project site.
         f.   Location of storm, sanitary, combined sewer, and septic tank
systems and outfalls.
         g.   Apparent land use of all adjacent properties.
         h.   Identification and delineation of sensitive areas.
         i.   The location of regulated drains, farm drains, inlets and
outfalls, if any of record, along with recordation number.
         j.   Location of all existing cornerstones within the proposed
development and a plan to protect and preserve them.
         k.   Date on which topographic survey (field work) was performed.
      (5)   A grading and drainage plan, including the following information:
         a.   Location of all proposed site improvements, including roads,
utilities, lot delineation and identification, proposed structures, and common
areas, along with finished floor elevations of all living areas.
         b.   One hundred (100) year floodplains, floodway fringes, floodways,
and date reference information used to establish such. Please note if none
exists.
         c.   Delineation of all proposed land disturbing activities, including
off-site activities that will provide services to the project site.
         d.   Information regarding any off-site borrow, stockpile, or disposal
areas that are associated with a project site, and under the control of the
project site owner.
         e.   Existing and proposed topographic information at a contour
interval appropriate to indicate drainage patterns.
         f.   Location, size, and dimensions of all existing streams to be
maintained, and new drainage systems such as culverts, bridges, storm sewers,
conveyance channels, and 100-year overflow paths/ponding areas shown as hatched
areas, along with all associated easements.
         g.   Location, size, and dimensions of features such as permanent
stormwater facilities, including natural or constructed wetlands, used for the
purpose of stormwater management, including existing stormwater facilities to
be maintained, enlarged, or otherwise altered and new ponds or basins to be
built.
         h.   Typical cross sections at appropriate intervals of all existing
and proposed drainage facilities (including existing stormwater facilities)
showing the existing and proposed topography extended above the 100-year high
water, includingthe high water elevations expected from the 100-year storm
under the controlled conditions called for by this ordinance, and the
relationship of structures, streets, and other facilities.
      (6)   Utility plan sheet(s) showing the location of all existing and
proposed utility lines for the project.
      (7)   Storm sewer plan or profile sheet(s) showing the elevation, size,
length, location of all proposed storm sewers. Existing and proposed ground
grades, storm sewer structures elevations, and utility crossings also must be
included.
      (8)   A twenty-four (24) inch by thirty-six (36) inch plat (both in hard
copy and digital format acceptable to the SWMB), including the following
information;
         a.   Legal description.
         b.   Cross reference to Rule 12.
         c.   Regulated drain statement and table (including any maintenance
agreements).
      (9)   Any other information required by the SWMB to evaluate the
submitted material.
   (c)   Stormwater Drainage Technical Report. A written stormwater drainage
technical report must contain a discussion of the steps taken in the design of
the stormwater drainage system to evaluate the proposed improvements. The
technical report must include the following detailed items:
      (1)   A summary report, including the following information:
         a.   Description of the nature and purpose of the project.
         b.   The drainage problems associated with the project.
         c.   The procedure used to evaluate these problems and to propose
solutions.
         d.   Any assumptions or special conditions associated with the use of
these procedures, especially the hydrologic or hydraulic methods.
         e.   The proposed design of the drainage control system.
         f.   The results of the proposed drainage control system showing that
it does solve the project's drainage problems. Any hydrologic or hydraulic
calculations or modeling results must be adequately cited and described in the
summary description. If hydrologic or hydraulic models are used, the appendices
must include input and output files for all necessary runs. A map showing any
drainage area delineations used in the analysis must accompany the report.
         g.   Soil properties, characteristics, limitations, and hazards
associated with the project site and the measures that will be integrated into
the project to overcome or minimize adverse soil conditions.
         h.   Identification of any other State or Federal water quality
permits required for construction activities associated with the property
owner's site.
         i.   Signed and certified (stamped) by a professional engineer
licensed in the State of Indiana.
         j.   USGS site map and most recent FIRM map.
      (2)   A hydrologic/hydraulic analysis, consistent with the methodologies
and calculation included in the Town of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual, and including the following information:
         a.   A hydrologic/hydraulic report detailing existing and proposed
drainage patterns on the subject site. The report must include a description of
present land use and proposed land use. Any off-site drainage entering the site
or any downstream restrictions should be addressed as well. This report should
be comprehensive and detail all of the steps the engineer took during the
design process.
         b.   All hydrologic and hydraulic computations must be included in the
submittal. These calculations should include runoff curve numbers, runoff
calculations, stage discharge relationships, times-of-concentration and storage
volumes.
         c.   Copies of all computer runs, which must include both the input
and the outputs. Electronic copies of the computer runs with input files must
also be included.
         d.   A set of exhibits should be included showing the drainage sub-
areas and a schematic detailing of how the computer models were set up.
         e.   A conclusion, which summarizes the hydrologic/hydraulic design
and details how this design satisfies this ordinance.
         f.   Signature and seal of a professional engineer licensed in the
State of Indiana.
   (d)   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan for Construction Sites. A
stormwater pollution prevention plan associated with construction activities
must be designed to at least meet the requirements of this ordinance and must
include:
      (1)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications, and construction
details of all temporary and permanent stormwater quality measures.
      (2)   Soil map of the predominant soil types, as determined by the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Natural Resources Conservation Service
(NRCS) Soil Survey, or as determined by a soil scientist. Hydrologic
classification for soils should be shown when hydrologic methods requiring
soils information are used. A soil legend must be included with the soil map.
      (3)   14-Digit Watershed Hydrologic Unit Code.
      (4)   An estimate of the peak discharge, based on the two (2) year storm
24-hour event, of the project site for post-construction conditions.
      (5)   Locations where stormwater may be directly discharged into
groundwater, such as abandoned wells or sinkholes. Please note if none exists.
      (6)   Locations of specific points where stormwater discharge will leave
the project site.
      (7)   Name of all receiving waters. If the discharge is to a separate
municipal storm sewer, identify the name of the municipal operator and the
ultimate receiving water.
      (8)   Temporary stabilization plans and sequence of implementation.
      (9)   Permanent stabilization plans and sequence of implementation.
      (10)   Temporary and permanent stabilization plans that include:
         a.   Specifications and application rates for soil amendments and seed
mixtures.
         b.   The type and application rate for anchored mulch.
      (11)   General construction sequence of how the project site will be
built, including phases of construction and the associated time of year they
are expected to be done.
      (12)   Construction sequence describing the relationship between
implementation of stormwater quality measures and stages of construction
activities.
      (13)   Location of all soil stockpiles and borrow areas.
      (14)   A typical erosion and sediment control plan for individual lot
development.
      (15)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
      (16)   A description of potential pollutant sources associated with the
construction activities, which may reasonably be expected to add a significant
amount of pollutants to stormwater discharges.
      (17)   Material handling and storage associated with construction
activity that meets the spill prevention and spill response requirements in 327
IAC 2-6.1.
      (18)   Name, address, telephone number, and list of qualifications of the
trained individual in charge of the mandatory stormwater pollution prevention
self-monitoring program for the project site.
   (e)   Post-Construction Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan. The post-
construction stormwater pollution prevention plan must include:
      (1)   A description of potential pollutant sources from the proposed land
use that may reasonably be expected to add a significant amount of pollutants
to stormwater discharges.
      (2)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications, and construction
details of all post-construction stormwater quality measures.
      (3)   A description of measures that will be installed to control
pollutants in stormwater discharges that will occur after construction
activities have been completed. Such practices include infiltration of runoff,
flow reduction by use of open vegetated swales and natural depressions, buffer
strip and riparian zone preservation, filter strip creation, minimization of
land disturbance and surface imperviousness, maximization of open space, and
stormwater retention and detention ponds.
      (4)   A sequence describing when each post-construction stormwater
quality measure will be installed.
      (5)   Stormwater quality measures that will remove or minimize pollutants
from stormwater runoff.
      (6)   Stormwater quality measures that will be implemented to prevent or
minimize adverse impacts to stream and riparian habitat.
      (7)   An operation and maintenance manual for all post-construction
stormwater quality measures to facilitate their proper long-term function. This
operation and maintenance manual must be available to future parties who assume
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the post-construction
stormwater quality measures. The manual must include:
         a.   Contact information for the BMP owner (i.e. name, address,
business phone number, cell phone number, pager number, e-mail address, etc.).
         b.   A statement that the BMP owner is responsible for all costs
associated with maintaining the BMP.
         c.   A right-of-entry statement authorization allowing Town of Dyer
personnel to inspect and maintain the BMP.
         d.   Specific actions to be taken regarding routine maintenance,
remedial maintenance of structural components, and sediment removal. Sediment
removal procedures should be explained in both narrative and graphical forms. A
tabular schedule should list all maintenance activities and dates for
performing these required maintenance activities.
         e.   Site drawings showing the location of the BMP and access
easement, cross sections of BMP features (i.e. pond, forebay(s), structural
components, etc.), and the point of discharge for stormwater treated by the
BMP. Additionally, the drawings should provide dimensional information and
indicate where applicable warning signs will be placed around a stormwater
quality pond. These drawings must be submitted both in hard copy and in digital
format acceptable to the SWMB. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §11, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-86.2 Review of Individual Lots Within a Permitted Project.
For development of individual lots within a larger permitted project disturbing
or impacting less than one (1) acre, a formal review and issuance of an
individual lot plot plan permit is required before a building permit can issue.
All stormwater management measures necessary to comply with this ordinance must
be implemented in accordance with the permitted plan for the larger project.
As part of a request for review and issuance of an individual lot plot plan
permit that shall be obtained before the issuance of a building permit, a
property owner must submit:
   (a)   A lot plan meeting the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   Plan signed and sealed by an Indiana registered land surveyor or
professional engineer.
      (2)   Drainage patterns and swales.
      (3)   FEMA Flood Zone Designation. If applicable, identify flood
elevation line.
      (4)   Proposed or existing structures tied to lot lines to nearest tenth
of a foot.
      (5)   Bearings and distances of lots including set-back lines, square
footage, easements, streets, alleys, sidewalks, building set-back lines, width
of lots at building set-back line and lot grades.
      (6)   Proposed elevations required to nearest tenth [must be in
accordance with approved subdivision plan (including benchmark)] for:
         a.   Entry way;
         b.   Main floor;
         c.   Top of foundation;
         d.   Ground grade at each corner of building;
         e.   Ground grade at lot corners;
         f.   Grade at side yard;
         g.   Slope of driveway expressed as a percentage; and
         h.   Elevations of adjacent properties including top finished floor,
lot and building corners.
      (7)   Certified as-built plans with all the lot plan information and as-
built information will be required for occupancy. Any difference of over 0.5
feet, either vertically or horizontally between proposed and actual, must be
highlighted by the registered land surveyor or professional engineer signing
the as-built plans. If winter conditions do not allow final grading, a
certificate of future compliance must be noted on as-built plans.
   (b)   Erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes the
following measures:
      (1)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site access.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion and
sediment control measures prior to land disturbance.
      (3)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot.
      (4)   Clean up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto roads.
Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with water.
Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in
compliance with all applicable statutes and rules.
      (5)   Implementation of concrete washout practices that securely contain
and allow for the proper disposal of washout waste.
      (6)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization.
      (7)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
The individual lot owner and individual lot operator is responsible for
installation and maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until
the site is stabilized. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §11, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-86.3 Changes to Plans.
Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and specifications after
approval of the applicable stormwater management permit must be requested in
writing and filed with, and accepted by, the SWMB before land development
incorporating the changes. Copies of the changes, if accepted, must be attached
to the original plans and specifications. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §11, 11-10-21)
Sec 9-86.4 Fee Structure.
As a condition of the submission and the review of development plans by the
Town of Dyer, the applicant must pay the Town of Dyer the applicable fees for
review of all drainage submittals, preliminary plans, final plans, construction
plans and accompanying information and data, as well as any applicable prepaid
inspection fees.
All subdividers, developers, or property owners are responsible for the costs
of all improvements required for each subdivision, development or improvement
in the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, including engineering fees and
expenses, legal fees, publication costs, and the like. These costs must be paid
to the Town of Dyer at the time of consideration of a primary or final plat, or
when any administrative, SWMB or Plan Commission review and approval is
required or necessary by a subdivider, developer, or owner of any lots
involved. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §11, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-86.5 Required Assurances.
As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, an applicant must
provide a surety in the form of an irrevocable letter of credit, a bond, or any
other instrument or method of security acceptable in writing by the Town of
Dyer Town Attorney when the stormwater management plan has been accepted, all
applicable fees paid, and before construction begins. This surety serves to
guarantee a good faith execution of the stormwater drainage plan, the
stormwater pollution prevention plan, the stormwater quality management plan,
and any permit conditions. The surety must be for an amount equal to at least
one hundred ten percent (110%) of the total costs of all stormwater management
measures for the entire project, based on an estimate as prepared by the
developer and approved by the SWMB for the installation and ongoing monitoring
and maintenance of erosion control measures and the construction and ongoing
monitoring and maintenance of storm drainage infrastructure, detention/
retention facilities, and stormwater quality BMPs, as regulated under this
ordinance, until the construction is completed, site is stabilized, and as-
built plans are accepted by the SWMB, and accepted by the Town at the time of
acceptance of the streets and improvements. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §11, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-86.6 Terms and Conditions of Permits.
In granting a stormwater management permit, the SWMB may impose such terms and
conditions as reasonably necessary to meet the purposes of this ordinance. The
project site owner must ensure compliance with such terms and conditions. Non-
compliance with the terms and conditions of permits is subject to enforcement
as described in Division VIII.
The property owner must inform in writing all individuals or entities that have
primary oversight of the project/development of the terms and conditions of the
stormwater management permit and the schedule for proposed implementation.
In the event that a project site is determined to impact or discharge to a
sensitive area or is located in an Impact Drainage Area, the SWMB may require
more stringent stormwater quantity and quality measures than detailed in this
ordinance or in the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual.
Permits expire on December 31 of the second year following the date of their
issuance. Construction of the permitted activity must begin by the expiration
date for the permit to be valid.
   (a)   Determination of Sensitive Areas. Sensitive areas include highly
erodible soils, wetlands, threatened or endangered species habitat, outstanding
waters, impaired waters, recreational waters, and surface drinking water
sources. A listing of highly erodible soils, outstanding water, impaired water,
recreation water, and surface drinking water sources is contained in the Town
of Dyer Stormwater Quality Management Plan (SWQMP) - Part C: Program
Implementation dated October 2010 and its updates. If wetlands are suspected on
a site, wetland delineation should be completed in accordance with the
methodology established by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE) and the
wetland addressed in accordance to the requirements of Division VI of this
ordinance. If the presence of threatened or endangered species habitat is
suspected on a site, the site must be evaluated and inspected by an individual
or entity as approved by the SWMB experienced in that subject matter and the
results reported to the SWMB. Special terms and conditions for development
determined to impact or discharge to any sensitive area are specified in the
stormwater management permit.
   (b)   Determination of Impact Drainage Areas.
      (1)   The following areas are designated as impact drainage areas, unless
good reason for not including them is presented to the SWMB:
         a.   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the most updated Town
of Dyer Town ordinance dealing with floodplain regulation.
         b.   Land within twenty-five (25) feet of each bank of any ditch
within the Town of Dyer's system.
         c.   Land within fifteen (15) feet of the centerline of any stormwater
infrastructure or enclosed conduit within the Town of Dyer's system.
         d.   Land within seventy-five (75) feet of each bank of a county open
regulated drain.
         e.   Land within fifty (50) feet of a natural drainageway.
         f.   Land within seventy-five (75) feet of the centerline of any tiled
regulated drain.
         g.   Land within the Fluvial Erosion Hazard (FEH) corridor.
         h.   Land within the expected breach inundation zone of an existing or
proposed new dam, and areas protected from flooding by a levee.
      (2)   The SWMB is authorized, but not required, to classify certain
additional geographical areas as impact drainage areas. In determining impact
drainage areas, the SWMB must consider land use, topography, soil type,
capacity of existing drains, distance from adequate drainage facility, and
similar factors.
      (3)   Land that does not have an adequate outlet, taking into
consideration the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an
impact drainage area by the SWMB. Special terms and conditions for development
within any impact drainage area are included in the stormwater permit.
   (c)   Determination of Designated Drainage Areas Served by Regional
Facilities. The Town of Dyer is authorized, but not required, to classify
certain geographical areas as designated drainage areas that are or will be
served by regional facilities, such as a regional pond. In such cases, an
Infrastructure Development Fee (IDF) rate may be established for the designated
drainage area. The basis for determining such a fee for a proposed development
or re-development within a designated drainage area is as described in the Town
of Dyer Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §11, 11-10-
21)
Sec. 9-86.7 Certification of As-Built Plans.
After completion of construction of the project and before final project
acceptance of the Stormwater Management Plan (the issuance of a "certified"
NOT), a professionally prepared and certified 'as-built' set of plans by a
professional engineer or licensed land surveyor licensed in the State of
Indiana shall be submitted to the SWMB. Additionally, a digital copy of the
'as-built' plans is required in a format accepted by the SWMB. These plans must
include all pertinent data relevant to the completed storm drainage system and
stormwater management facilities, and shall include:
   (a)   Pipe size and pipe material;
   (b)   Invert elevations;
   (c)   Top rim elevations;
   (d)   Elevation of emergency overflow (spillway) for ponds;
   (e)   Grades along emergency flood routing path(s);
   (f)   Pipe structure lengths;
   (g)   BMP types, dimensions, and boundaries/easements;
   (h)   "As-planted" plans for BMPs, as applicable;
   (i)   Calculations showing detention basin storage volumes utilizing the
average end area method;
   (j)   Data and calculations showing BMP treatment capacity; and
   (k)   Certified statement on plans that the completed storm drainage system
and stormwater management facilities substantially comply with construction
plans and the stormwater management permit as approved by the SWMB. (See
certificate in Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.)
Figure 1: Permit Approval Process
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b44663335d846b22bd032dfe090aca6d0fba3e16/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2891.png]
(Ord. No. 2021-32, §11, 11-10-21)
Division VIII. Enforcement.
Sec. 9-87 Compliance With This Ordinance.
All persons and entities developing or redeveloping real estate within the Town
of Dyer must comply with:
   (a)   The requirements of this ordinance;
   (b)   All other requirements of the ordinances of the Town of Dyer;
   (c)   All other State or Federal laws, regulations, or requirements
applicable to development or redevelopment.
Unless otherwise stated herein, all specifications in this ordinance refer to
the most recent edition of the specifications that is available. Any violation
of this ordinance is subject to the penalties provided in this Chapter. (Ord.
No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-87.1 Penalties for Violations.
Any person in violation of any provision of this ordinance is subject to a
maximum fine of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). Each day such
violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense and renders the
violator liable for the imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and
remedies provided in this section are cumulative and in addition to any other
remedies provided by law. An admission or determination of responsibility does
not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of this
ordinance.
Any person who knowingly assists a person in a violation of this ordinance is
subject to the same penalties as for direct violation.
The Town of Dyer, by the Town Attorney, has the authority to prosecute
violators of the provisions of this ordinance. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-87.2 Stop Work Order.
In addition to other penalties provided in this Chapter, any land disturbance
or impact activities conducted in violation of the terms of this ordinance or
an accepted final stormwater management plan are subject to a stop work order.
The Town of Dyer may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any
persons and entities engaged in or causing such work to be done, and all such
persons and entities must immediately stop work until authorized by the Town of
Dyer to proceed with the work. The Town of Dyer may also undertake or cause to
be undertaken, any necessary or advisable protective measures to prevent
violations of this ordinance or to avoid or reduce the effects of noncompliance
with it. The owner(s) of the real estate and all persons and entities
participating in the violation are jointly and severally liable for and pay to
the Town of Dyer all costs incurred by the Town for any such protective
measures including engineering and attorney fees.
Any person or entity who fails to comply with a stop work order is guilty of an
ordinance violation and shall subject to a fine of two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) for each incident of noncompliance. For continuous
noncompliance, each day of noncompliance constitutes a separate offense and
renders the violator liable for the imposition of a fine for each day. In
addition, the Town of Dyer has the right to seek injunctive relief to prohibit
violation of any stop work order and force compliance with this ordinance. All
persons or entitles responsible for the violation of a stop work order are
responsible for and pay for all engineering fees, attorney fees, and other
related costs incurred by the Town of Dyer in seeking injunctive relief for
compliance with this ordinance. Any violation of this ordinance allows the Town
of Dyer to suspend or revoke any permit issued to the violator under this
ordinance. If a violator's permit is suspended, the violator must pay a permit
reinstatement fee equal to the original permit fee before reinstatement. If a
permit is revoked, the applicant must apply for a new permit complying with all
terms and conditions of this ordinance for a new permit. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1,
11-10-21)
Sec. 9-87.3 Failure to Comply or Complete.
In addition to all other remedies and penalties provided for in this Chapter,
if any person or entity fails to comply with this ordinance or fail to timely
complete a project for which a permit has been issued, after being given notice
and reasonable time for compliance, the Town of Dyer has the right, but not the
obligation, to complete the work necessary to cure the violation(s) or complete
the project. All costs and fees incurred by the Town of Dyer for such actions
must be paid by the owner of the real estate and all persons or entities
responsible for the violations or failure to timely complete the project. (Ord.
No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-87.4 Suspension of Access to the Storm Drain System.
   (a)   Suspension Due to Emergency Situations. The Town of Dyer may, without
prior notice, suspend stormwater drainage system discharge access to a person
or entity when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the stormwater
drainage system or waters connected to it. If any person or entity fails to
comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the Town of Dyer may
take all actions that minimize damage to the stormwater drainage system or
waters connected to it, or to minimize danger to persons or property.
   (b)   Suspension Due to the Detection of Illicit Discharge. Any person or
entity discharging into the stormwater drainage system in violation of this
ordinance may have its stormwater drainage system access terminated if
termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. Except in an emergency,
the Town of Dyer must notify a violator of the proposed termination. (Ord. No.
2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-87.5 Corrective Action.
Nothing in this ordinance prevents the Town of Dyer from taking any lawful
action necessary to prevent or remedy any violation of this ordinance. The
owners of the real estate and all persons or entities participating in the
violations or creating the situation for which preventative or remedial action
is necessary are liable to the Town of Dyer for all costs and fees incurred for
such actions. Costs include repairs to the stormwater drainage system made
necessary by the violation, penalties levied by government agencies for
violation of the Town of Dyer's NPDES permit, engineering fees, attorney fees,
labor and material costs, and all other costs and expenses incurred by the Town
of Dyer. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 9-87.6 Appeals.
   (a)   Any person or entity against whom the Town of Dyer has applied any
provision of this ordinance may appeal the Town's action to the SWMB. The
appealing party must file its appeal within ten (10) days of the date of the
action being appealed. Failure to file an appeal within that time renders the
action final. An appeal must be in writing and set forth in detail the basis
for the appeal. The SWMB must hear the appeal at its next regular meeting
scheduled at least seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The appeal
hearing may be continued to subsequent meetings if additional time is needed to
hear evidence. The appealed action remains effective pending a decision on
appeal.
   (b)   On appeal, the SWMB may consider the following in deciding the appeal:
      (1)   Any evidence presented by the appellant;
      (2)   Recommendations and evidence presented by any engineer for the Town
of Dyer or the SWMB;
      (3)   Recommendations and evidence presented by the Town of Dyer or any
of its Boards, Commissions, or Departments; and
      (4)   Any other relevant evidence or testimony from persons or entities
having knowledge of the matter being considered on appeal.
   (c)   The SWMB, after concluding the hearing of the appeal, may affirm,
reverse, or modify the appealed action.
   (d)   The SWMB must issue its decision in writing no more than forty-five
(45) days after the appeal hearing concludes.
   (e)   Upon appeal, the SWMB may grant a variance or modification from the
requirements of this ordinance to provide either whole or partial relief the
appealed action. Such a variance or modification may only issue upon a finding
by the SWMB that all of the following requirements are fulfilled:
      (1)   The application of the ordinance provisions to the appealed action
will present or cause practical difficulties for a development or development
site, excluding the reasonable costs and expenses necessary to comply with this
ordinance; and
      (2)   That the granting of the requested variance or modification will
not materially violate the requirements and purposes of this ordinance; and
      (3)   That the granting of the requested variance or modification will
not materially impact the proper management of stormwater runoff in the Town of
Dyer and surrounding areas. (Ord. No. 2021-32, §1, 11-10-21)
ARTICLE 4. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SANITATION.
Sec. 9-90 Governing State Law.
The Statute, Indiana Code, §§ 36-9-25-1 through 36-9-25-40, concerning the
establishment and maintenance of a department of public sanitation, defining
its powers and duties, and creating a sanitary district, be and hereby is
adopted by the Town Council of the Town of Dyer, Indiana, so as to make said
Statute and any and all amendments thereto effective and operative as to the
Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana.
(Ord. No. 91-7, § 1, 3-12-91)
Sec. 9-91 Department of Public Sanitation Created.
Pursuant to said Statute a Department of Public Sanitation shall be and is
created for the purpose of providing for the collection, disposal, and drainage
of wastewater in the Town of Dyer, Indiana. (Ord. No. 91-7, § 2, 3-12-91)
Sec. 9-92 Territory Included in District.
The territory to be included initially in the district shall be all of that
territory included at any time within the corporate limits of the Town of Dyer,
and any territory, addition, or platted subdivision or unplatted lands lying
outside the corporate limits of the Town of Dyer, Indiana, which have been
taken into or which have been connected with the wastewater treatment system of
the Town of Dyer. Indiana, in accordance with the provisions of any prior act,
and the drainage of which discharges into or through the sewer system of the
Town of Dyer, Indiana. (Ord. No. 91-7, § 3, 3-12-91)
Sec. 9-93 Board.
The Board shall consist of three (3) commissioners to be appointed by the Town
Council, not more than two (2) of whom may be of the same political party. The
term of the first commissioner shall end on December 31, 1991; the term of the
second commissioner shall end on December 31, 1992; and the term of the third
commissioner shall end on December 31, 1993. Thereafter all terms will be for a
period of four (4) years. The members of the Board shall be compensated for
their services set forth annually in the salary ordinance for the Town of Dyer.
Should a vacancy occur on the Board, that vacancy shall be filled by the Town
Council within sixty (60) days from the date the vacancy occurred. (Ord. No.
91-7, § 4, 3-12-91)
Sec. 9-94 Special Taxing District.
Pursuant to Indiana Code, § 36-9-25, there is created a special taxing district
which shall include all of the territory as identified and set out hereinabove
in Sec. 9-92. (Ord. No. 91-7, § 5, 3-12-91)
Sec. 9-95 Concurrent Powers.
This ordinance shall not be construed as adversely affecting any outstanding
sewage works revenue bonds issued or to be issued pursuant to Indiana Code, §
36-9-23. The Town shall retain its municipal works board and the town's ability
to issue revenue bonds pursuant to Indiana Code, § 36-9-23. The municipal works
board and the Board of Sanitary Commissioners shall have concurrent power with
respect to the sewer system of the Town of Dyer, Indiana. (Ord. No. 91-7, § 6,
3-12-91)
Sec. 9-96 through Sec. 9-99 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 5. REGULATIONS ADDRESSING PUBLIC SEWERS AND DRAINS.
Sec. 9-100 Definitions.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in the Ordinance shall be as follows:
   a.   “Ammonia (or NH3-N)” shall mean the same as Ammonia Nitrogen measured
as Nitrogen. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in “Standard Methods” as defined in this article.
   b.   “Building (or House) Drain” means the lowest horizontal piping of
building drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to a
point approximately five (5) feet outside the foundation wall of the building
or house.
      1.   “Building Drain (Sanitary)” - A building drain which conveys
sanitary or industrial sewage only.
      2.   “Building Drain (Storm)” - A building drain which conveys storm
water or other clean water drainage, but no wastewater.
   c.   “Building (Or House) Lateral sewer” means the extension from the
building drain to the sewage system or other place of disposal. (Also called
house connections.)
      1.   “Building Sewer (Sanitary)” - A building sewer which conveys
sanitary or industrial sewage only.
      2.   “Building Sewer (Storm)” - A building sewer which conveys storm
water or other clean water drainage, but no wastewater.
   d.   “Carbonaceous Biochemical Oxygen Demand (or CBOD)” of sewage, sewage
effluent, polluted waters or industrial wastes shall mean the rate at which
microorganisms use the oxygen in water or wastewater while stabilizing
decomposable carbonaceous organic matter under aerobic conditions. The
laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth
in “Standard Methods” as defined in this section.
   e.   “CFR” means Code of Federal Regulations.
   f.   “Chemical Oxygen Demand (or COD)” of sewage, sewage effluent, polluted
waters or industrial wastes is a measure of the oxygen consuming capacity or
inorganic and organic matter present in wastewater. All laboratory
determination shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
“Standard Methods.”
   g.   “Collector Sewer” shall mean a sewer whose primary purpose is to
collect wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
   h.   “Combined Sewer” shall mean a sewer intended to receive both wastewater
and storm or surface water.
   i.   “Commercial User” shall mean any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, (for profit or not for profit) business or service which, based on
a determination by tile Town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes
or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   j.   “Compatible Pollutant” shall mean carbonaceous biochemical oxygen
demand, suspended solids, pH and E. Coli bacteria, plus additional pollutants
identified in the Dyer Sanitary District NPDES Permit if the Dyer Sanitary
District Treatment Works was designed to treat such pollutants and in fact does
remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term substantial degree is
not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in the
order of eighty (80%) percent or greater. Minor incidental removals in the
order of ten (10%) to thirty (30%) percent are not considered substantial.
Examples of the additional pollutants which may be considered compatible
include:
      1.   Chemical oxygen demand,
      2.   Total organic carbon,
      3.   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds,
      4.   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds,
      5.   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with operation of the
treatment works and the collection and transmission system).
   k.   “E. Coli” shall mean any or a number of organisms common to tile
intestinal tract or man and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an
indicator of pollution.
   l.   “Easement” shall mean an acquired legal right for the specific use of
land owned by others.
   m.   “Effluent Data” means information necessary to determine the identity,
amount, frequency, concentration, temperature or other characteristics of any
pollutant discharged.
   n.   “EPA” means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or a duly
authorized official of that agency.
   o.   “Excessive Strength Surcharge” shall mean an additional charge which is
billed to users for treating compatible sewage wastes with an average strength
in excess of “normal domestic sewage."
   p.   “Floatable Oil” shall mean oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such
that will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment
facility approved by the Town.
   q.   “Force Main” shall mean a pipe in which wastewater is carried under
pressure.
   r.   “Garbage” shall mean any solid wastes from the preparation, cooking or
dispensing of food and from handling, storage or sale of produce.
   s.   “Garbage, Properly Shredded” shall mean the wastes from the
preparation, cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such
degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow condition
normally prevailing in public sewers with no particle greater than one-half (½)
inch in any dimension.
   t.   “Governmental User” shall mean any Federal, State or local governmental
user of the wastewater treatment works.
   u.   “GPD” shall mean gallons per day.
   v.   “Heavy Demand Substances” are concentrations of phosphorus, ammonia,
suspended solids or biochemical oxygen demand in sewage which exceed the levers
established in this code.
   w.   “IDEM” shall mean Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   x.   “Incompatible Pollutant” shall mean any pollutant that is not defined
as a compatible pollutant, including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids, and
further defined in Regulation 40 CFR Part 403.
   y.   “Industrial User” shall mean any manufacturing or processing facility
that discharges industrial waste.
   z.   “Industrial Wastes” shall mean any solid, liquid or gaseous substances
or form of energy discharged, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial,
manufacturing, commercial or business process or from the development, recovery
or processing or any natural resource carried on by a person and shall further
mean any waste from an industrial sewer.
   aa.   “Infiltration” shall mean the water entering a sewer system, including
building drains and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not
limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls.
(Infiltration does not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   bb.   “Infiltration/Inflow” shall mean the total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow without distinguishing the source.
   cc.   “Inflow” shall mean the water discharged into a sewer system,
including building drains and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to,
roof leader, cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted
cooling water discharges, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers,
cross connections from storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, storm
waters, surface runoffs street wash waters or drainage. (inflow does not
include, and is distinguishable from infiltration.)
   dd.   “Inspector” shall mean the person or persons duty authorized by the
Town through its Board of Sanitary Commissioners to inspect and approve the
installation or building sewers and their connection to the public sewer
system.
   ee.   “Interceptor Sewer” shall mean a sewer whose primary purpose is to
transport wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
   ff.   “Institutional User” shall mean any establishment involved in a
social, charitable, religious, and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the Town discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   gg.   “Interference” shall mean a discharge, which alone or in conjunction
with a discharge or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the
POTW, its treatment processes or operations or its sludge processes, use or
disposal and/or causes a violation of a NPDES Permit or causes the Town to be
in violation of any local, state or federal laws, or prevents sewage sludge use
or disposal in compliance with any of the following statutory/regulatory
provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any more stringent State or local
regulations; Section 405 of the Clean Water Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act,
including Tide II commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA); any State regulations contained in any State sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal
Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the Marine
Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act.
   hh.   “May” shall mean the indication of a discretionary condition.
   ii.   “mgl” means milligrams per liter.
   jj.   “National Categorical Pretreatment Standard” means any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
Section 307(b) and © of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1317) which applies to a specific category of
industrial users and which appear in 40 CFR, Chapter L Subchapter N. Parts 405-
471.
   kk.   “Nonresidential Discharger” means any user of the sewer system who
discharges a nondomestic effluent into the system by means of pipes, conduits,
pumping stations, force mains, constructed drainage ditches, surface water
intercepting ditches, and all constructed devices and appliances appurtenant
thereto. (Specified in 40 CFR Part 403 as “industrial user”)
   ll.   “Normal Domestic Sewage” (for the purpose of determining surcharges)
shall mean wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows:
   T.S.S                  not more than 200 mg/l
   CBOD                  not more than 175 mg/l
   Ammonia-Nitrogen         not more than 25 mg/l
   Phosphorus               not more than 10 mg/l
As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or sanitary
conveniences as distinct from industrial processes.
   mm. “NPDES Permit” National Pollutant Discharge Elimination system Permit
setting forth conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to section 402
of Public Law 95-217.
   nn.   “Operation and Maintenance” shall mean the proper care, maintenance
and repairs necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and
treatment on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that
conform with all related Federal, State and local requirements.
   oo.   “Other Service Charges” shall mean tap charges, connection charges,
area charges and other identifiable charges other than excessive strength
surcharges.
   pp.   “Outlet” shall mean any outlet, natural or constructed, including
storm sewers, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
around water.
   qq.   “pH” shall mean the reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen-ion
concentration. The concentration is the weight of hydrogen-ions, in grams per
liter of solution.
   rr.   “Pass Through” shall mean a discharge which exits the POTW into waters
of the United States in quantities or concentrations which, along or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of a NPDES Permit, including an increase in the
magnitude or duration of a violation.
   ss.   “Person” shall mean any and all persons, natural or artificial,
including, but not limited to any individual, firm, company, municipal or
private corporation, partnership, copartnership, joint stock company, trust,
estate, association, society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the
State of Indiana, the United States of America, or other legal entity, or their
legal representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include
the feminine and the singular shall include the plural where indicated by the
context.
   tt.   “Phosphorus (or P)” shall mean the chemical element phosphorus, total.
The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with procedures set
for “Standard Methods” as defined in this article.
   uu.   “Pretreatment” shall mean the reduction of the amount of pollutants,
the elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes,
process changes or by other means, except as prohibited by 40 CFR Section 403.6
(d); and shall include applicable rules and regulations contained in the Code
of Federal Regulations as published in the Federal Register, under Section 307
or PL 95-217, under regulation 40 CFR Part 403 pursuant to the Act, and
amendments.
   vv.   “Pretreatment Requirement” shall mean any substantive or procedural
requirement related to pretreatment imposed on an industrial user, other than a
pretreatment standard.
   ww. “Pretreatment Standard (or Standards)” shall mean prohibitive discharge
standards, categorical pretreatment standards or local limits.
   xx.   “Private Sewer” shall mean a sewer which is not owned by public
authority.
   yy.   “Publicly Owned Treatment Works (or POTW)” shall mean a “treatment
works,” as defined by Section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned by
the Town. This definition includes any devices or systems used in collection,
storage, pumping, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial
wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a
treatment plant.
   zz.   “Public Sewer” shall mean a Sewer which is owned and controlled by the
public authority and will consist of the following increments: Collector Sewer,
Interceptor Sewer, Force Main, Pumping Station.
   aaa.   “Pumping Station” shall mean a station positioned in the public sewer
system at which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   bbb.   “Residential User” shall mean a user of the POTW whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, etc.
   ccc.   “Sanitary Sewer” shall mean a sewer which carries sanitary and
industrial wastes, and to which storm, surface and ground water are not
intentionally admitted.
   ddd.   “Sewage” shall mean the combination of the liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions (including
polluted cooling water). The three most common types of sewage are:
      1.   “Sanitary sewage” shall mean the combination of liquid and water-
carried wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
      2.   “Industrial Sewage” shall mean a combination of liquid and water-
carried wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from
any trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      3.   “Combined Sewage” shall mean wastes including sanitary sewage,
industrial sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the
wastewater treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
   eee.   “Sewage Treatment Plant” means any arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage.
   fff.   “Sewage Works” shall mean the structures, equipment and processes to
correct, transport and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent and accumulated residual solids.
   ggg.   “Sewer” shall mean a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, including
manholes and other appurtenances.
   hhh.   “Shall” shall mean mandatory.
   iii.   “Significant Industrial User” shall mean:
      1.   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
      2.   A user that:
         a.   Discharges an average of twenty-five thousand (25,000) gpd or
more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling
and boiler blowdown wastewater);
         b.   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five (5) percent
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant; or
         c.   Is designated as such by the Town on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
      3.   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in Subsection (2)
has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the Town may at any time,
on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from a user, and in
accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that such user
should not be considered a significant industrial user.
   jjj.   “Significant Noncompliance (or SNC)” shall mean violation of one or
more of the following criteria:
      1.   “Chronic Violations of Wastewater Discharge Limits,” defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of wastewater measurements taken
during a 3-month period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit for the
same pollutant parameter by any amount:
      2.   “Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations,” defined here as those
in which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken
for each pollutant parameter during a 3-month period equals or exceeds the
product of the daily maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the
applicable criteria (1.4 for CBOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all
other pollutants except pH);
      3.   Any other discharge violation that the Town believes has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through
(including endangering the health of Town personnel or the general public);
      4.   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment or has resulted in the Towns exercise of its
emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      5.   Failure to meet, within sixty (60) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      6.   Failure to provide within thirty (30) days after the due date, any
required reports including baseline monitoring reports, sixty (60) day
compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance
with compliance schedules;
      7.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
      8.   Any other violation(s) which the Town determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program or
operation of the POTW.
   kkk.   “Plug (or Plug Load)” shall mean any discharge at a flow rate or
concentration which could cause a violation of the prohibited discharge
standards set forth in herein, or any discharge of a non-routine, episodic
nature, including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or noncustomary
batch discharge.
   lll.   “Standard Methods” shall mean the laboratory procedures approved by
the EPA and set forth in 40 C.F.R., Part 136.
   mmm.   “Storm Sewer” shall mean a sewer for conveying water, ground water or
unpolluted water from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes
are not intentionally admitted.
   nnn.   “Total Suspended Solids (or T.S.S.)” shall mean solids which either
float on the surface of or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquid
and which are removable by laboratory filtration and the dissolved solids.
Their concentration shall be expressed in milligrams per liter. Quantitative
determination shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
“Standard Methods.”
   ooo.   “Town” shall mean the Town of Dyer acting through its Town Council or
duly authorized officials or Boards acting in its behalf.
   ppp.   “Toxic Amount” shall mean concentrations of any pollutant or
combination of pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any
organism will cause adverse effects, such as cancer, generic mutations and
physiological manifestations, as defined in standards issued pursuant to the
Clean Water Act (PL 95-217).
   qqq.   “Unpolluted Water” is water of quality equal to or better than the
effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   rrr.   “Volatile Organic Matter” shall mean the material in the sewage
solids transformed to gases or vapors when heated to 550 degrees C for 15 to 20
minutes.
   sss.   “Wastewater” shall mean water in which sewage has been discharged.
   ttt.   “Watercourse” shall mean a natural or official channel for the
passage of water either continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 97-5, 3-11-97)
Sec. 9-101 Private Sewage Disposal.
   a.   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the
provisions of this Ordinance and any other applicable local, state of federal
law. Unless otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, outhouse, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   b.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management and the Indiana Department of Public Health. No septic
tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   c.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available within 300 feet of the
property line of a property served by a private sewage disposal system, the
Town will apprize the affected property owner of this availability by certified
mail. A direct connection shall then be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this Article, at the owner's expense, within ninety (90) days of receipt
of the notice.
   d.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall be approved by the Lake County Department of Public, Health and
comply with all recommendations of the Indiana Department of Public Health as
set forth in Bulletins SE 8 and SE 13.
   e.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the Town.
   f.   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within ninety (90) days and the private sewage disposal
system shall be deactivated in accordance with all applicable laws.
   g.   No statement contained in this article shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Lake County
Department of Public Health. (Ord. 97-5, 3-11-97)
Sec. 9-102 Building Sewers and Connections.
   a.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Town.
   b.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: (1) for
residential and (2) for commercial and industrial users. In either case, the
owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
Town. The Permit Application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications
or other information considered pertinent in the judgement of the Inspector.
   c.   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the landowner. The landowner shall
indemnify the Town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer. The person or company
performing the construction shall provide liability insurance protecting the
Town from liability and shall provide a performance bond acceptable to the Town
in the amount of $10,000.
   d.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, sump pumps,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff
or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   e.   The connection of a building sewer into the public sewer shall conform
to the requirements of the Town of Dyer Standard Specifications, building and
plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the Town.
   f.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Town when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector. Prior to
all excavation on public property, Town must be notified at least 48 hours in
advance and provided with a listing of the hours of closure, if any.
   g.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with signs, barricades and lights and flag person as needed so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the Town. All signs, barricades and lights shall be in good
condition and conform to the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   h.   Before the Town accepts any sewers, new or otherwise, into the POTW,
certified videotape (VHS) must be provided to and accepted by the Town. This
requirement may be waived by the Inspector upon adequate visual inspection of
the work. (Ord. 97-5, 3-11-97)
Sec. 9-103 Discharges to Public Sewers.
   a.   General Prohibitions. No person shall discharge, introduce or cause to
be discharged or introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which
causes pass through or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all
users of the POTW whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment
standards or any other National, State or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
      1.   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
Town, any wastewater or other polluted water except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this Ordinance or a NPDES
Permit.
      2.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted water except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this Ordinance or a NPDES
Permit.
      3.   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the Town or in any area
under the jurisdiction of said Town, any human excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   b.   Specific Prohibitions. No person shall discharge, introduce or cause to
be discharged or introduced any of the following described pollutants,
substances of wastewater into any public sewers or directly or indirectly into
a POTW.
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other pollutants which
create a fire or explosive hazard to the POTW, including, but not limited to,
wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C) using the
test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 9.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, collection systems or personnel of the sewage works, or
that interferes with any treatment process.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch, manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, pulp, fiber, paper products, dishes, cups, milk
containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
      5.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater works, or to
exceed the limitations set forth in the applicable Federal Categorical
Pretreatment Standards or other pretreatment standards of regulations issued by
EPA or the IDEM. Toxic pollutant(s) are identified pursuant to Section 307(a)
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended.
      6.   Any pollutant, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly, or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW.
      7.   Wastewater or any liquid having a temperature greater that 150°F
(65°C), or which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant
resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater or liquid which causes the
temperature at the introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F
(40°C).
      8.   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the Town. Trucked pollutants that may, in the opinion of the Inspector,
interfere with operation of the POTW are prohibited.
      9.   Any wastewater, liquid or other waste containing concentrations of
the following substances in amounts exceeding the stated values:
   Parameter               Limit, mg/l
   Chromium, total            2.0
   Copper, total               2.0
   Cyanide, total            1.0
   Fats, Oils and Grease         100.0
   Iron, Dissolved            1.0
   Lead, total               1.6
   Mercury, total            0.0005
   Nickel, total               2.0
   Phenol                  1.3
   PCB's                  No Discharge Allowed
   Zinc, total               2.0
      10.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Town in compliance with
applicable State or Federal regulations.
      11.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm water, surface water, ground water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted
industrial water.
      12.   No new connection shall be made unless there is capacity available
to all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the sewage treatment
plant, including capacity for CBOD and TSS.
   c.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in this Ordinance, and which in the
judgement of the Town may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works,
processes, equipment or receiving waters, or otherwise create a hazard to life
or constitute a nuisance, the Town may:
      1.   Require new industries or industries with significant increase in
discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges.
      2.   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the Town.
      3.   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of normal
domestic sewage as defined.
      4.   Require control of flow equalization of such wastes so as to avoid
any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment works.
      5.   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating such wastes. If the Town permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Town and subject
to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   d.   Interceptors shall be provided by the discharger as necessary for the
removal of grease, flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful substances. All
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Town or its
designee, and shall be readily accessible for cleaning and inspection. The
owner and/or operator of interceptor equipment shall be required to maintain
certified records as to time and date of cleaning and inspection.
   e.   When a discharger is required to provide preliminary treatment,
including interceptors or flow equalization facilities, such equipment shall be
maintained by the discharger in satisfactory operating condition as determined
by the Town.
   f.   When required by the Town, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters, samplers and other appurtenances
in the building sewer, to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of
the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely
located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Town. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be
maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. The Town, the
Indiana Department of Environmental Management and the USEPA shall be permitted
to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing.
   g.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this Ordinance shall be conducted
using the methods and procedures in 40 CFR Part 136, and shall be determined at
the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at said control
manhole, except for application for NPDES Permits and report thereof such shall
be conducted in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the USEPA, 40
CFR Part 136 and any subsequent revisions subject to approval by the Town. In
the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall
be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect to constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property. The particular analysis involved will determine whether a twenty-four
(24) hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a
grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and 5.5.
analyses are obtained from twenty-four (24) hour composites of all outfalls
whereas pH's are determined from periodic grab samples.)
   h.   No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the Town and any industrial user
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the Town for treatment, subject to payment therefore, by the industrial
concern, at such rates as are compatible with the rate ordinance, provided,
however, that no special agreement or arrangement may be made with the Town
which results in the violation of National Pretreatment Standards or local
limits.
   i.   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
written permission of the Town. Unpolluted water from air conditioners,
cooling, condensing systems or swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm
sewer. Where a storm sewer is not available, such unpolluted water may be
discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval by the Town. (Ord. 97-
5, 3-11-97)
Sec. 9-104 Pretreatment of Industrial Wastes.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from Significant Industrial Users prior to
discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the Rules and
Regulations adopted by the EPA (40 C.F.R. Part 403), and “Guidelines
Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants” (40 C.F.R. Part 136),
in addition to any more stringent requirements established by the Town and
subsequent State or Federal Guidelines and Rules and Regulations.
   a.   Limitations of Wastewater Strength:
      1.   The National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, located in 40 CFR
Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, are hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference into this code and include amendments to those standards that occur
hereafter as the same are published in the CFR with effective dates as fixed
therein. An application for modification of the National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards may be considered by the Town when the wastewater
treatment plant achieves consistent removal of the pollutants described herein.
      2.   State and local requirements and limitations on discharges shall be
met by all dischargers when such requirements and limitations are more
stringent than federal requirements and limitations.
      3.   No discharger shall use unpolluted water to dilute a discharge as a
substitute for adequate treatment of prohibited substances to achieve
compliance with the standards set forth in this division.
      4.   Discharges to Public Sewers shall comply with Section
9-104 of this Ordinance.
   b.   Accidental Discharges/Slugs:
      1.   Each Significant Industrial User shall provide an accidental
discharge/slug control plan, which plan is subject to approval by the Town and
other applicable agencies and shall, thereafter, be implemented by the
Significant Industrial User. Such plans shall address, at an minimum, the
following:
         a.   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
         b.   Description of stored chemicals;
         c.   Procedures for immediately notifying the Town of any accidental
or slug discharge, as required hereafter;
         d.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of material loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
      2.   Dischargers shall notify the Town immediately upon the occurrence of
a “slug” or accidental discharge of substances prohibited by this division. The
notification shall include location of discharge, date and time of occurrence,
type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions. Immediate
notification may be verbal, followed by a written verification within five (5)
days of the incident.
   c.   Wastewater Discharge Permits:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to discharge sewage, nondomestic wastes, or
other wastes to any sewer outlet within the jurisdiction of the Town without
having been issued a wastewater discharge permit if the discharger:
         a.   Is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards as
promulgated by the EPA; or,
         b.   Discharges nondomestic wastewater in the amount equal to or
exceeding five thousand (5,000) gallons per day; or,
         c.   Contributes a nondomestic stream exceeding five (5) percent of
the dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant; or,
         d.   Has a reasonable potential to adversely affect the treatment plan
processes by inhibition, pass-through of pollutants, sludge contamination, or
endangerment of treatment plant personnel.
      2.   Prospective nondomestic users of any sewer which are subject to the
provisions of paragraph (c) (1) of this section shall obtain a wastewater
discharge permit prior to connecting to or discharging into the wastewater
system and shall apply for said permit at least ninety (90) days prior to
anticipated connection.
      3.   The Town, at its discretion, may issue a Wastewater Discharge
Permit.
   d.   Permit Application.
      1.   Applications for wastewater discharge permits may be procured from
the Town.
      2.   Dischargers subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) (1) of this
section shall obtain from, complete and file with the Town a permit application
on a form prescribed by the Town. Said form shall require the following
information:
         a.   Disclosure of name, address and location of the discharger.
         b.   Disclosure of Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) number
according to the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Bureau of the
Budget, 1972, as amended.
         c.   Disclosure of wastewater constituents and characteristics
including but not limited to those mentioned in this division, as determined by
bona fide chemical and biological analysis.
         d.   Disclosure of time and duration of discharges.
         e.   Disclosure of average daily wastewater flow rates in gallons per
day, including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any. All flows must
be measured unless other verifiable techniques are approved by the Town due to
cost or nonfeasibility.
         f.   Disclosure of site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing
plans and details to show all sewers, sewer connections, inspection manholes,
sampling chambers, and appurtenances by size, location and elevation.
         g.   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or may be discharged to the sewer.
         h.   Disclosure of the nature and concentration of any pollutants or
materials prohibited by this division in the discharge, including a statement
regarding whether or not compliance is being achieved on a consistent basis and
if not, what additional operation and maintenance activities and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the discharger to comply.
         i.   Where additional pretreatment and/or operation maintenance
activities are required to comply with the applicable pretreatment standard,
the discharger must provide a compliance schedule by which he will provide the
additional pretreatment and/or implementation of additional operational and
maintenance activities. All pretreatment plans shall be submitted to the Town
for review and approval prior to implementation.
         j.   Disclosure of each product produced by type, amount, process or
processes and rate of production.
         k.   Disclosure of the type and amount of the raw materials utilized.
         l.   All permit applications for new or modified permits must be
signed by a principal executive officer of the discharger.
      3.   Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the application for
discharge permit, the Town shall review said application for compliance with
the terms and conditions of this Ordinance and shall approve or reject the
application.
      4.   If the Town finds the applicant to be in compliance, the application
shall be approved and a permit to discharge shall be issued subject to the
following terms and conditions:
         a.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a municipal sewer.
         b.   Numerical limits on the average and maximum wastewater
constituents and characteristics.
         c.   Limits on the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
         d.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities.
         e.   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number and types of samples, and standards
for analyses and reporting schedules.
         f.   Compliance schedules.
         g.   Requirements for submittal of technical reports or discharge
reports.
         h.   Requirements for maintaining and retention of plant records
pertaining to wastewater discharge as specified and affording the Town, USEPA
and IDEM access thereto.
         i.   Requirements for reporting the nature of significant changes in
wastewater flow or in type and concentration of wastewater constituents. For
purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are not limited
to, flow and/or concentration increases of twenty percent (20%) or greater or
the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
         j.   Requirements for notification of slug discharges.
         k.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Town to ensure
compliance with this Ordinance.
         l.   The permit is for a period of five (5) years, but may be revoked
or rescinded if the applicant is not in conformity with the provisions of this
Ordinance.
      5.   If the Town rejects the application for noncompliance, they shall
establish a compliance schedule and require compliance schedule reports and
compliance date reports on forms as supplied.
   e.   Confidentiality:
      1.   In accordance with 40 C.F.R., Part 2, any information submitted to
the Town pursuant to these regulations may be claimed as confidential by the
submitter. Any such claim must be asserted at the time of submission in the
manner prescribed on the application form or instructions, or, in the case of
other submissions, by stamping the words “confidential business information” on
each page containing such information. If no claim is made at the time of
submission, the Town may make the information available to the public without
further notice. If claim is asserted, the information will be treated in
accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. Part 2 (Public Information).
      2.   Information and data provided to the Town pursuant to this part
which is effluent data shall be made available to the public without
restriction.
      3.   All other information which is submitted to the U. S. Environmental
Protection Agency, the Indiana Department of Environmental Management or the
Town shall be available to the public at least to the extent provided by 40
C.F.R., Paragraph 2.302.
   f.   Permit Modifications:
      1.   The Town reserves the right to amend any wastewater discharge permit
issued hereunder in order to ensure compliance by the Town with applicable laws
and regulations. Within nine (9) months of the promulgation of a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater discharge permit of each
discharger subject to such standards shall be revised to require compliance
with such standards within the time frame prescribed by such standards. All
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards adopted after the promulgation of
this Ordinance shall be a part hereof.
      2.   Any discharger required to obtain a discharge permit under the newly
promulgated standards shall apply for same immediately upon notification by the
Town.
      3.   Any current permittee whose wastewater discharge permit is affected
by newly promulgated National Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall, upon
notification by the Town, submit all documentation, information and proposed
changes necessary to bring the discharger into compliance with the new
standards. Upon receipt of said information, the Town shall establish a
compliance schedule whereby the permittee shall attain compliance with the
applicable standards. The permittee shall be advised of any proposed changes in
his permit at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of change. Any
changes in new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time
schedule for compliance, not to exceed the duration specified in the applicable
National Categorical Standards.
   g.   Permit Duration. All Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a
five year duration and shall be valid subject to amendment or revocation as
provided in this division. Under special circumstances, as determined by the
Town, a permit may be issued for a period of less than five (5) years.
   h.   Limitations on Permit Transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued
to a specific discharger for a specific operation and are not assignable to
another discharger or transferable to any other location without the prior
written approval of the Town.
   i.   Reporting Requirements:
      1.   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a) (4), whichever is later, existing
significant industrial users subject to such categorical pretreatment
standards, and currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the POTW,
shall be required to submit to the Town a report which contains the information
listed in paragraph 2 below. At least ninety (90) days prior to commencement of
their discharge, new sources, and sources that become industrial users
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall be
required to submit to the Town a report which contains the information listed
in paragraph 2 below. A new source shall also be required to report the method
of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable pretreatment standards. A
new source shall also give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of
pollutants discharged.
      2.   The industrial user shall submit the information required by this
section including:
         a.   Identifying Information. The name and address of the facility
including the name of the operation and owners.
         b.   Wastewater Discharge Permits. A list of any environmental control
wastewater discharge permits held by or for the facility.
         c.   Description of Operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operations carried out by such industrial user. This description should include
a schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW
from the regulated processes.
         d.   Flow Measurement. Information showing the measured average, or
estimated, if approved by the Town, daily and maximum flow, in gallons per day,
to the POTW from regulated process streams and other stream, as necessary, to
allow use of the combined wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
         e.   Measurement of Pollutants.
            1.   Identify the categorical pretreatment standards applicable to
each regulated process.
            2.   Submit the results of sampling and analysis identifying the
nature and concentration (and/or mass), where required by the Town of regulated
pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process. Instantaneous, daily
maximum and long term average concentrations (or mass, where required) shall be
reported. The sample shall be representative of daily operations and shall be
analyzed in accordance with procedures set out herein.
            3.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set
out herein.
         f.   Certification. A statement reviewed by the industrial users
authorized representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis -- and, if
not, whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
         g.   Compliance Schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standard; the shortest schedule by which
the industrial user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. the
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out herein.
      3.   Any permittee subject to a pretreatment standard set forth in this
division shall submit to the Town during the months of June and December,
unless required more frequently by the discharge permit, a periodic compliance
report indicating the nature and concentration of prohibited or regulated
substances in the effluent. Included in the report shall be a record of all
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows during the reporting
period, computed by verifiable techniques as required by the applicable
discharge permit.
      4.   Each permittee shall monitor the discharge with the frequency
prescribed in its wastewater discharge permit. All sampling and analyses shall
be performed in accordance with 40 C.F.R., Part 136.
      5.   Reports of monitoring events shall be filed with the Town as
required by the wastewater discharge permit. The reports shall include all
results of analyses required by the permit including flow conditions and the
nature and concentration of those prohibited substances specified in the
applicable categorical standards. The reports shall also specify sampling
location, date, time and techniques, analysis date, analyst and analysis
methods, and results of all analyses.
      6.   If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation,
the industrial user must notify the Town within twenty-four (24) hours of the
violation. The industrial user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and
submit the results of the report to the Town within fifteen (15) days after the
violation. The Industrial User shall continue to sample until the Town informs
them in writing that additional sampling is not required.
      7.   Any industrial user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste
shall notify the Town, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and
the State hazardous waste authorities in writing of any discharge into the POTW
of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste
under 40 CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous
waste as set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the industrial user
discharges more than 100 kilograms, of such waste per calendar month to the
POTW, the notification shall also contain the following information to the
extent such information is known and readily available to the industrial user;
an identification of the hazardous constituents in the wastestream discharged
during the calendar year, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months.
All notifications must be in writing and take place no later than fifteen (15)
days after the discharge commences. Any notification under this paragraph need
be submitted only once or each hazardous waste discharged. However,
notification of changed discharges must be submitted as required by law. The
notification requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already
reported under the self-monitoring requirements set out above.
         a.   In the case of any new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the
Town, the U.S. EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and State
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within ninety
(90) days of the effective date of such regulations.
         b.   In the case of any notification made under this section, the
industrial user shall certify, within thirty (30) days, that it has a program
in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated.
      8.   All permittees shall retain and preserve for no less than five (5)
years, any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports, correspondence and
any and all summaries thereof relating to monitoring, sampling and analyses
made in connection with its discharge. All records which pertain to matters
which are the subject of administrative adjustment or any other enforcement or
litigation activities brought by the Town pursuant hereto shall be retained and
preserved by the permittee until all enforcement activities have concluded and
all periods of limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
      9.   Any person who makes any false statement, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this section, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required
under this section may be assessed a civil penalty of not more than two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
      10.   All permittees subject to Federal Categorical Pretreatment
Standards will be required to file all reports as described in 40 C.F.R., 403,
which is incorporated herein by reference, including amendments that may
hereafter be made as the same are published in the Code of Federal Regulations.
These reports shall include, but not be limited' to, baseline monitoring
reports, compliance schedule reports, compliance date reports and periodic
compliance reports.
      11.   Compliance schedule reports must be submitted by any nonresidential
discharger not subject to categorical standards who is not in compliance with
the terms and conditions of this division.
   j.   Emergency suspension of service and permit. The Town may, for good
cause shown, suspend the wastewater treatment service and the discharge permit
of a nonresidential discharger when an actual or threatened discharge presents
or may present an imminent or substantial danger to the health or welfare of
persons, substantial danger to the environment, interfere with the operations
of the wastewater treatment plan, or violate any pretreatment limits imposed by
this Ordinance. Any nonresidential discharger notified of the suspension of
treatment service and/or permit shall cease all discharges to the sewer system.
In the event of failure of the nonresidential discharger to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order within the specified time, the Town shall commence
judicial proceedings immediately thereafter to compel the nonresidential user's
compliance with such order. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as
requiring a hearing prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
   k.   Revocation of Permit. The Town may revoke the permit of any user that
violates the following conditions of this ordinance, wastewater discharge
permit or orders issued hereunder.
      1.   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions.
      2.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge.
      3.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge.
      4.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling.
      5.   Violation of the discharge standards in this Ordinance or of the
pretreatment standards in this section.
   l.   Notification of Violation; Administrative Adjustment. Whenever the Town
finds that a permittee has engaged in conduct which justifies revocation of its
permit, pursuant to this code, the Town shall serve or cause to be served upon
such permittee a written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested,
stating the nature of the alleged violation. Within fifteen (15) days of the
date of receipt of the notice, the permittee shall respond in writing to the
Town advising of its position with respect to the allegations. Thereafter the
parties shall meet within fifteen (15) days to establish a plan acceptable to
tide Town for the correction of all confirmed violations.
   m.   Show Cause Hearing. Where the violation of this code is not corrected
by timely compliance by means of administrative adjustment, the Town may order
any discharger which causes or allows conduct herein prohibited, to show cause
before the Town, why the proposed permit revocation should not be taken. A
written notice shall be served on the discharger by personal service, certified
or registered, return receipt requested, specifying the time and place of a
hearing to be held by the Town or its designee regarding the violation, the
reasons why the enforcement action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement
action, and directing the discharger to show cause before the Town or its
designee why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of
the hearing shall be served not less than ten (10) days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any agent, officer, or authorized representative of a
discharger. The proceedings at the hearing shall be considered by the Town
which shall then enter appropriate orders with respect to the alleged improper
activities of the discharger.
   n.   Judicial Proceedings. Following a finding by the Town that a permittee
is not in compliance with the provisions of this code, the Town may commence an
action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the appropriate local
court.
   o.   Annual Publication of Significant Violators. The Town shall annually
publish in the local daily newspaper a list of the nonresidential dischargers
which were not in compliance with applicable pretreatment requirements or
standards at least once during the previous twelve (12) months. The
notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken against the
dischargers during the same twelve (12) months.
   p.   The Town shall have the right to enter the facilities of any industrial
user to ascertain whether the purpose of this ordinance, and any permit or
other issued hereunder, is being met and whether the industrial user is
complying with all requirements thereof. Industrial users shall allow the Town
immediate access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance of any
additional duties.
      1.   Where an industrial user has security measures in force which
require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the
industrial user shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so
that, upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the Town
will be permitted to enter without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
      2.   The Town shall have the right to set up on the industrial user's
property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct
sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
      3.   The Town may require the industrial user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the
industrial user and in addition all devices used to measure wastewater flow and
quantity shall be calibrated periodically to ensure their accuracy, all of
which shall be at the industrial user's expense.
      4.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the industrial facility to be inspected and/or samples shall be promptly
removed by the industrial user at the written or verbal request of the Town and
shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
industrial user.
      5.   Unreasonable delays in allowing Town personnel access to the
industrial user's premises shall be a violation of this ordinance. (Ord. 97-5,
3-11-97)
Sec. 9-105 Plans and Specifications of Pretreatment Facilities.
   Pretreatment information, including plans and specifications of control
facilities shall be submitted for approval of the Town and no construction of
such facilities shall be commenced until approval in writing is granted. Where
such facilities are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his expense and
shall be subject to periodic inspection by the Town to determine that such
facilities are being operated in conformance with the applicable Federal, State
and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain operating records of the
influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment facilities and
for comparison against Town's monitoring records. (Ord. 97-5, 3- 11-97)
Sec. 9-106 Spills Reporting.
   Users of the sewage works shall immediately notify the Town of any unusual
flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the sewer
system. (Ord. 97-5, 3-11-97)
Sec. 9-107 Protection from Damage; Arrest.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, recklessly or
negligently break, damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the POTW. (Ord. 97-5, 3- 11-97)
Sec. 9-108 Search Warrant.
   If the Town has been refused access to a building, structure or property of
any part thereof, and if the Town has demonstrated probable cause to believe
that there may be a violation of this ordinance or that there is a need to
inspect as part of a routine inspection program of the Town designed to verify
compliance with this ordinance or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to
protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then
upon application to an appropriate judicial officer, the Town may obtain and
utilize a search warrant. In the event of an emergency affecting public health
and safety, inspections may be made without the issuance of a search warrant.
(Ord. 97-5, 3-11-97)
Sec. 9-109 Recovery of Costs.
In addition to other penalties imposed for violations of the provisions of this
ordinance, any discharger who discharges or causes a discharge producing a
deposit or obstruction, or causes damage to or impairs the POTW shall be liable
to the Town for any one or more of the following which may be billed to the
discharger by the Town in its ordinary course of business and which shall be
paid to the Town within 30 days of the billing:
   a.   Any and all costs incurred by the Town for any cleaning, repair or
replacement work caused by the violation or discharge;
   b.   Any and all expenses, loss, damage, or costs and expenses incurred by
the Town, including, but not limited to, attorney fees, engineering fees, and
other expert and consulting fees caused by the violation or discharge; and
   c.   Any and all other consequential damages, foreseen or otherwise, to the
Town, including, but not limited to, fees, penalties, damages and costs of
injunctive relief that are incurred by the Town, including the costs and
expenses of legal proceedings and/or litigation, including, but not limited to,
attorney fees, engineering fees, and other expert or consulting fees, incurred
in the Town's defense against claims for such consequential damages. (Ord. 97-
5, 3-11-97)
Sec. 9-110 Effective Date of Ordinance.
   This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and publication as provided by law. (Ord. 97-5, 3-11-97)
Sec. 9-111 Construction of Ordinance.
   a.   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence, or provision of this
Ordinance shall not affect the validity of any other part of this Ordinance
which can be given effect without such invalid part or parts.
   b.   Whenever another law, regulation or standard is referenced, it means
the latest version as it is amended from time to time. (Ord. 97-5, 3-11-97)
Sec. 9-112 Severability and Conflicts.
   a.   If any provision, paragraph, work, section or chapter of this Ordinance
is invalidated by the court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
provisions, paragraphs, works, sections, and chapters shall not be affected and
shall continue in full force and effect.
   b.   In the event other Ordinance or parts of other ordinances are
inconsistent or conflict with any part of this ordinance, this ordinance shall
take precedence. (Ord. 97-5, 3-11-97)
Sec. 9-113 through Sec. 9-124 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 6. SEWAGE WORKS.
Division I. Schedule of Rates and Charges.
Sec. 9-125 Definitions.
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of items used
in the Ordinances shall be as follows:
   a.   “Ammonia, (or NH3-N)” shall mean the same as Ammonia Nitrogen measured
as Nitrogen. The laboratory determinations shall be made in accordance with
procedures set forth in “Standard Methods” as defined in this article.
   b.   “Carbonaceous Biochemical Oxygen Demand (or CBOD)” of sewage, sewage
effluent, polluted waters or industrial wastes shall mean the rate at which
microorganisms use the oxygen in water or wastewater while stabilizing
decomposable carbonaceous organic matter under aerobic conditions. The
laboratory determination shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth
in “Standard Methods” as defined in this Section.
   c.   “CFR” means Code of Federal Regulations.
   d.   “Commercial User” shall mean any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, (for profit or not for profit) business or service which, based on
determination by the Town, discharges primarily segregated domestic waste or
waste from sanitary conveniences.
   e.   “Debt Service Cost” shall mean the average annual principal and
interest payment on all proposed revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   f.   “Dwelling Unit” shall be interpreted as a room or rooms or any other
space in which cooking facilities are provided and having individual sink and
toilet facilities.
   g.   “Excessive Strength Surcharge” shall mean an additional charge which as
billed to users for treating compatible sewage wastes with an average strength
in excess of “normal domestic sewage.”
   h.   “Heavy Demand Substances” are concentrations of phosphorus, ammonia,
total suspended solids or carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand in sewage
which exceed the levels established in this code.
   i.   “Industrial User” shall mean any manufacturing or processing facility
that discharges industrial waste.
   j.   “Industrial Wastes” shall mean any solid, liquid or gaseous substances
or form of energy discharged, permitted to flow or escape from an industrial,
manufacturing, commercial or business process or from the development, recovery
or processing of any natural resource carried on by a person and shall further
mean any waste from an industrial sewer.
   k.   “mg/l” means milligrams per liter.
   l.   “Multiple Family Unit” shall mean a building, or a portion thereof,
designed exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living
independently of each other.
   m.   “Normal Domestic Sewage” (for the purpose of determining surcharges)
shall mean wastewater or sewage having an average daily concentration as
follows:
   TSS               not more than 200 mg/l
   CBOD               not more than 175 mg/l
   Ammonia-Nitrogen      not more than 25 mg/l
   Phosphorus            not more than 10 mg/l
   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or sanitary
conveniences are distinct from industrial processes.
   n.   “NPDES Permit” - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit
setting forth conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Section 402
of Public Law 95-217.
   o.   “Operation and Maintenance Cost” include all costs, direct and
indirect, necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and
treatment on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that
conform with all related Federal, State and local requirements. (These costs
include replacement.)
   p.   “Other Service Charges” shall mean tap charges, connection charges,
area charges and other identifiable charges other than excessive strength
surcharges.
   q.   “Person” shall mean any and all persons, natural or artificial,
including, but not limited to, any individual, firm, company, municipal or
private corporation, partnership, copartnership, joint stock company, trust,
estate, association, society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, the
State of Indiana, the United States of America, or other legal entity, or their
legal representatives, agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include
the feminine and the singular shall include the plural where indicated by the
context.
   r.   “Publicly Owned Treatment Works (or POTW)” shall mean a “treatment
works,” as defined by Section 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1292) which is owned by
the Town. This definition includes any devices or systems used in collection,
storage, pumping, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial
wastes of a liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a
treatment plant.
   s.   “Replacement Costs” shall mean the expenditures for obtaining and
installing equipment, accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during
the useful life of the POTW to maintain the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed.
   t.   “Residential User” shall mean a user of the POTW whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units, etc.
   u.   “Sewage” shall mean the combination of the liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions (including polluted cooling water). The three most common types of
sewage are:
      1.   Sanitary Sewage shall mean the combination of liquid and water-
carried wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
      2.   Industrial Sewage shall mean a combination of liquid and water-
carried wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting
from any trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include
the wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      3.   Combined Sewage shall mean wastes including sanitary sewage,
industrial sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the
wastewater treatment facilities by a combined sewer.
   v.   “Sewer” shall mean a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, including
manholes and other appurtenances.
   w.   “Shall” means mandatory.
   x.   “Standard Methods” shall mean the laboratory procedures approved by the
EPA and set forth in 40 C.F.R., Part 136.
   y.   “Storm Sewer” shall mean a sewer for conveying water, ground water or
unpolluted water from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes
are not intentionally introduced.
   z.   “Total Suspended Solids (or TSS)” shall mean solids which either float
on the surface of or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquid and
which are removable by laboratory filtration. Their concentration shall be
expressed in milligrams per liter. Quantitative determination shall be made in
accordance with procedures set forth in “Standard Methods.”
   aa.   “Town” shall mean the Town of Dyer acting through its Town Council or
duly authorized officials or Boards acting in its behalf. (Ord. No. 97-6)
Sec. 9-126 Rates and Charges.
   a.   There shall be and are hereby established for the use of and the
service rendered by the sewage works system of the Town of Dyer, the following
rates and charges:
Flow charge - per 1,000 gallons:      $5.48
PLUS:
Base rates - per month:
   Water Meter Size (Inches)
   5/8 to 1                  $ 14.55
   1 1/4                  $ 55.85
   1 1/2                  $ 81.75
Unmetered:
   Residential:
   Single family dwelling      $44.75
   Apartment/unit            $33.60
   Commercial:                  
   First 3 employees            $44.75
   Each additional employee      $11.20
Monthly Surcharge Rates (per pound):
   TTS in excess of 200 mg/l      $0.23
   CBOD in excess of 175 mg/l   $0.38
   Ammonia - Nitrogen in excess of 25 mg/l   $0.61
   Phosphorus in excess of 10 mg/l   $0.38
   b.   The Town hereby elects to earn a reasonable return on the sanitary
sewer utility plant.
   c.   The Town hereby elects to receive payments in lieu of taxes from the
sanitary sewer utility plant.
(Ord. No. 97-6; Am. Ord. No. 2001-13, § 1, 8-21-01; Am. Ord. No. 2009-15, 11-4-
09; Am. Ord. No. 2016-28, 12-8-16)
Sec. 9-127 Special Metering.
The quantity of water discharged into the POTW and obtained from sources other
than the utility that serves the Town shall be determined by the Town in such
manner as the Town shall reasonably elect, and the sewage service shall be
billed at the above appropriate rates; further, as is hereinafter provided in
this section, the Town may make proper allowances in determining the sewage
bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be consumed, but which are
also shown to the satisfaction of the Town that such quantities do not enter
the POTW.
   a.   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or other liquids into the POTW, either
directly or indirectly, and uses water in excess of 10,000 gallons per month,
and it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Town that a portion of water as
measured by the water meter or meters does not and cannot enter the POTW, then
the owner or other interested party shall install and maintain meters, weirs,
volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of measurement
acceptable to the Town for the determination of sewage discharge and then the
Town may, at its discretion, adjust the sewer charges accordingly.
   b.   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial waste water or other liquids into the POTW, either
directly or indirectly and the use is:
      1.   A user of water obtained from a source other than the municipal
waterworks of the Town; or
      2.   A user of water of the municipal waterworks of the Town and in
addition uses water from another source; or
      3.   A user who diverts a portion of the water used on or in the premises
away from the sanitary sewage system; or
      4.   A user who uses a material amount of water in a product; or
      5.   A user with a material amount of the water used in or on the
premises evaporated and not discharged to the sanitary sewage system; or
      6.   A user who has for any other reason water entering the sanitary
system under circumstances where the sewage flow is not accurately measured by
metering devices.
then the amount of water used and returned to the sanitary sewer shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the owner or other interested party or the
Town, at its discretion, at the owner or other interested parties expense by
the installing and maintaining of meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices
or any adequate method of measurement approved by the Town for determination of
sewage discharge.
   c.   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the POTW,
either directly or indirectly, are users of water and the quantity of water is
measured by a single water meter, then in such case for billing purposes the
quantity of water used shall be averaged for each user and the base charge
shall apply to each of the number of residential lots, parcels of real estate
or buildings served through the single water meter.
   d.   In the event two or more dwelling units such as trailers, apartments or
housekeeping rooms discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the
POTW, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and the quantity of
water is measured by a single water meter, then in such case, for billing
purposes a base charge of $5.00 shall apply to each of the number of trailers,
apartments or housekeeping rooms.
   e.   No lot, parcel of real estate or building located outside the corporate
limits of the Town shall discharge sanitary sewage, industrial waste, water or
other liquids into the POTW, either directly or indirectly, without the prior
written consent of the Town.
   f.   Sewage rates and charges for Town residents serviced by the Water
Utility for the months of June, July and August of each year, for which bills
are rendered in July, August and September will be based on each resident's
average water consumption for the previous months of October, November,
December, January, February, and March, as billed in November, December,
January, February, March, and April for billing for said three (3) months.
(Ord. No. 97-6; Am. Ord. No. 2001-13, § 1, 8-21-01)
Sec. 9-128 Billing.
Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the Town in
the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   a.   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   b.   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability in the event
payment is not made as herein required. The owners of properties served, which
are occupied by a tenant or tenants, shall have the right to examine the
collection records of the Town for the purpose of determining whether bill have
been paid by such tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall be
made at the office at which said records are kept and during hours that such
office is open for business. (Ord. No. 97-6)
Sec. 9-129 Laws and Regulations by the Town.
The Town shall make and enforce such ordinances and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the POTW.
(Ord. No. 97-6)
Sec. 9-130 Delinquent bills.
As provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are hereby
declared to be delinquent and a penalty often percent (10%) of the amount of
the rates or charges shall be attached thereto. The time at which such rates or
charges shall be paid is now fixed at the 28th day of the month in which the
bill is mailed. In the event the Town chooses to employ the services of an
attorney for purposes of collection, the delinquent user shall be liable also
for any and all costs of collection including attorney fees and court costs.
(Ord. No. 97-6)
Sec. 9-131 Connections Tap-In and Permit Fees.
   a.   In addition to the sewage rates and charges based upon the quantity of
water used on or in the property or premises subject to said rates and charges
as set forth above, there shall be charged to the owner of each and every lot
and parcel of real estate that is connecting with the Town's sanitary sewer
system, a connection fee or charge in the amount of six hundred twenty-five
($625.00) dollars plus the actual cost of construction of the connection. The
connection fee shall cover the cost of work performed to install the lateral
sewer from the sewer line to the property line. Said payment shall be credited
by the Clerk-Treasurer to the Dyer Sewer Improvement Fund.
   b.   In addition, the owner of each and every lot and parcel of real estate
that is connecting with the Town's sanitary sewer system shall pay a tap-in
charge of two hundred seventy-five ($275.00) dollars per unit. For purposes of
this ordinance, a unit shall be defined as an apartment building not exceeding
three (3) units, single family residence, duplex, commercial establishment not
exceeding two (2) units, or any other building or portion of a building
connected to the POTW. Each three (3) apartments in a multi-unit building and
each two (2) commercial units in a multi-unit commercial building shall be
assessed a tap-in charge of two hundred seventy-five ($275.00) dollars as
provided above.
   c.   Said connection fee or charge shall be paid at the time of making
application for a sewer connection.
   d.   Industrial Users that are required to obtain a Wastewater Discharge
Permit shall be charged a permit fee in the amount equal to the cost to the
Town. Said Wastewater Discharge Permit fee shall be paid prior to issuing of
the permit.
   e.   Where videotape inspection of building sewers must be performed, the
inspection may, upon agreement between the owner and Town of Dyer, be performed
by the Town of Dyer. The fee for video inspection shall be $1.25 per lineal
foot of sewer inspected. If the Town must clean the sewer prior to video
inspection, the fee for cleaning shall be $5.00 per lineal foot of sewer
cleaned. (Ord. No. 97-6)
Sec. 9-132 Excessive Strength Surcharge.
   a.   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to service rendered to users, the Town shall base its charges not only
on the volume, but also on strength and character of the sewage and wastes
which it is required to treat and dispose of. The Town shall have the night to
require the user to measure and/or determine the strength and content of all
sewage and wastes discharged either directly or indirectly into the POTW, in
such manner and by such method and at such times as the Town may deem
practicable in light of the conditions and attending circumstances of the case,
in order to determine the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central
sampling point available to the Town at all time.
   b.   Additional charges for treating excessive strength domestic sewage
waste shall be made on the following basis:
      1.   Rate Surcharge Based Upon TSS. There shall be an additional charge
of eighteen cents ($.18) per pound of TSS for TSS received in excess of 200 mg/
l of fluid.
      2.   Rate Surcharge Based Upon CBOD. There shall be an additional charge
of thirty cents ($.30) per pound of CBOD for CBOD received in excess of 175 mg/
l of fluid.
      3.   Rate Surcharge Based Upon Ammonia-Nitrogen. There shall be an
additional charge of forty- eight cents ($.48) per pound of ammonia-nitrogen
received in excess of 25 mg/l of fluid.
      4.   Rate Surcharge Based Upon Phosphorus. There shall be an additional
charge of thirty cents ($.30) per pound of phosphorus received in excess of 10
mg/l of fluid.
   c.   The determination of TSS, CBOD, Ammonia-Nitrogen and Phosphorus
contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest edition of
Standard Methods. (Ord. No. 97-6; Am. Ord. No. 2001-13, § 1, 8- 21-01)
Sec. 9-133 Authorization to Enforce Regulations.
The Town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the Town's
sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the operation of
the POTW or to require methods affecting pretreatment of said wastes to comply
with pretreatment standards included in the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) Permit issued to the POTW, if any, or as contained
in the EPA General Pretreatment Regulations, 40 C.F.R. Part 403 or the Town's
Pretreatment Program. (Ord. No. 97-6)
Sec. 9-134 Fire Protection and Adjustments.
Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as for other
uses, the Town may, at its discretion, make adjustments in the user charges as
may be equitable. (Ord. No. 97-6)
Sec. 9-135 Compliance with State and Federal Requirements.
All provisions of this Ordinance and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable State and/or Federal requirements. (Ord. 97-6)
Sec. 9-136 Authorization to Enter into Special Rate Contracts.
The Town is hereby authorized to enter into special rate contracts with
customers of the POTW where reduction in cost to the sewage works can be
determined, and such reduction shall be limited to such reduced costs. (Ord.
97-6)
Sec. 9-137 Effective Date of Ordinance Rates and Charges.
The rates and charges as herein set forth shall become effective on the first
full billing period occurring after the adoption of this Ordinance. (Ord. 97-6)
Sec. 9-138 Effective Date of Ordinance.
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
publication as provided by law. (Ord. 97-6)
Sec. 9-139 Construction of Ordinance.
   a.   The invalidity of any section, clause, sentence, or provision of this
Ordinance shall not affect the validity of any other part of this Ordinance
which can be given effect without such invalid part or parts.
   b.   Whenever another law, regulation or standard is referenced, it means
the latest version as it is amended from time to time. (Ord. 97-6)
Sec. 9-140 Severability and Conflicts.
   a.   If any provision, paragraph, word, section or chapter of this ordinance
is invalidated by the court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
provisions, paragraphs, works, sections, and chapters shall not be affected and
shall continue in full force and effect.
   b.   In the event other ordinances or parts of other ordinances are
inconsistent or conflict with any part of this ordinance, this ordinance shall
take precedence. (Ord. 97-6)
Sec. 9-141 System Development Charges.
A system development charge will be collected from new customers of the Town
municipal sewer system in accordance with the following schedule:
 
         Meter Size
      5/8" 1"  1-1/2" 2"   3"   4"
Ratio 1.0  1.0 5.8    10.0 23.0 40.0
 
 
Year                   Connection Fees
2013 and thereafter 1,760 1,760 10,208 17,600 40,480 70,400
 
*   Non-metered residential user connection fees are equivalent to those for 5/
8" meter users.
(Ord. No. 2006-10, 8-16-06)
Sec. 9-142 through Sec. 9-144 Reserved for Future Use.
Division II. Funds Related to Sewage Works.
Sec. 9-145 Revenue Fund.
There is continued a fund known as the Revenue Fund (the “Revenue Fund”) into
which all income and revenues of the sewage works shall be deposited upon
receipt. This fund shall be maintained separate and apart from all other
accounts of the Town. All monies deposited in the Revenue Fund may be invested
in accordance with Indiana Code, § 5-13-9 and other applicable laws. (Ord. No.
92-27, § 9, 9-8-92)
Sec. 9-146 Operation and Maintenance Fund.
The Operation and Maintenance Fund created by Ordinance No. 89-30 is continued
herein. There shall be credited on the last day of each calendar month a
sufficient amount of the revenues of the sewage works so that the balance in
the Operation and Maintenance Fund shall be sufficient to pay the expenses of
operation, repair and maintenance for the then next succeeding two calendar
months. The monies credited to the Operation and Maintenance Fund shall be used
for the payment of the reasonable and proper operation, repair and maintenance
expenses of the sewage works on a day-to-day basis. Any monies in the Operation
and Maintenance Fund in excess of the expected expenses of the operation,
repair and maintenance for the next succeeding month may be transferred to the
Sinking Fund if necessary to prevent a default in the payment of principal of
or interest on the outstanding bonds of the sewage works. (Ord. No. 92-27, §
10, 9-8-92)
Sec. 9-147 Sewage Works Sinking Fund.
   a.   Sewage Works Sinking Fund. There is continued a sinking fund for the
payment of the principal of and interest on revenue bonds which by their terms
are payable from the Net Revenues of the sewage works, and the payment of any
fiscal agency charges in connection with the payment of bonds and interest,
which fund shall be designated the Sewage Works Sinking Fund (the “Sinking
Fund”). There shall be set aside and deposited in the Sinking Fund, as
available, and as provided below, a sufficient amount of the Net Revenues of
the sewage works to meet the requirements of the bond and Interest Account and
of the Reserve Account hereby continued in the Sinking Fund. Such payments
shall continue until the balance in the Bond and Interest Account, plus the
balance in the Reserve Account described below, equals the amount needed to
redeem all of the then outstanding bonds.
   b.   Bond and Interest Account. There shall be transferred, on the last day
of each calendar month, from the Revenue Fund and credited to the Bond and
Interest Account an amount of the Net Revenues equal to (i) one-sixth (1/6) of
the interest on all then outstanding bonds payable from Net Revenues on the
next succeeding interest payment date and (ii) one-sixth (1/6) of the principal
on all outstanding bonds payable on the next succeeding principal payment date,
until the amount of interest and principal payable on the next succeeding
interest and principal payment dates shall have been so credited. There shall
similarly be credited to the Account any amount necessary to pay the bank
fiscal agency charges for paying principal and interest on the bonds as the
same become payable. The Town shall, from the sums deposited in the Sinking
Fund and credited to the Bond and Interest Account, remit promptly to the
registered owner or to the bank fiscal agency sufficient monies to pay the
principal and interest on their due dates together with the amount of bank
fiscal agency charges.
   c.   Reserve Account. Beginning with the first month after any series of
Bonds are delivered, the Town shall deposit on the last day of each calendar
month an amount of Net Revenues into the Reserve Account until the balance
therein equals but does not exceed the least of (i) the maximum annual debt
service on the Bonds and 1989 Bonds, (ii) one hundred twenty-five (125%)
percent of average annual debt service on the Bonds and 1989 Bonds, or (iii)
ten (10%) percent of the proceeds of the Bonds and 1989 Bonds, plus a minor
portion thereof as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Reserve
Requirement”). The monthly deposits of Net Revenues shall be equal in amount
and sufficient to accumulate the Reserve Requirements within five (5) years of
the date of delivery of any series of Bonds. For purpose of federal tax law,
the Reserve Account shall be allocated between the 1989 Bonds and each series
of Bonds issued hereunder according to their original face amounts.
The Reserve Account shall constitute a margin for safety and protection against
default in the payment of principal and interest on outstanding bonds, and the
monies in the Reserve Account shall be used to pay current principal and
interest on outstanding bonds to the extent that monies in the Bond and
Interest Account are insufficient for that purpose. Any deficiency in the
balance maintained in the Reserve Account shall be promptly made up from the
next available Net Revenues remaining after credits into the Bond and Interest
Account. If monies in the Reserve Account are transferred to the Bond and
Interest Account to pay principal and interest on outstanding bonds, then this
depletion of the balance in the Reserve Account shall be made up from the next
available Net Revenues after the credits into the bond and Interest Account.
Any monies in the Reserve Account in excess of the Reserve Requirement may, in
the discretion of the Town Council, be transferred to the Sewage Works
Improvement Fund or be used for the purchase of outstanding bonds or
installments of principal of duly registered bonds at a price not exceeding par
and accrued interest. (Ord. No. 92-27, § 11, 9-8-92)
Sec. 9-148 Improvement Fund.
After meeting the requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund and the
Sinking Fund, any excess revenues may be transferred or credited to the Sewage
Works Improvement Fund, created by Ordinance No. 89-30 and hereby continued,
and said Fund shall be used for additions, extensions, replacements and
improvements. Monies in the Sewage Works Improvement Fund shall be transferred
to the Sinking Fund if necessary to prevent a default in the payment of
principal and interest on the then outstanding bonds or, if necessary, to
eliminate any deficiencies in credits to or minimum balance in the Reserve
Account of the Sinking Fund, or may be transferred to the Operation and
Maintenance Fund to meet unforeseen contingencies in the operation and
maintenance of the sewage works. (Ord. No. 92-27, § 12, 9-8-92)
Sec. 9-149 Priority of Payments.
The revenues of the Sewer works shall be applied towards the payment of, in
order of priority, the following: first, the expenses of operation, repair and
maintenance; second, on a pari passu (parity) basis, the principal of and
interest on the 1989 Bonds and the Bonds; third, to meet the requirements of
the reserve required for the 1989 Bonds and the Bonds; and fourth, expenses or
costs that may be paid from the Sewage Works Improvement Fund. (Ord. No. 92-27,
§ 13, 9-8-92)
Sec. 9-150 Maintenance of Accounts. 10
The Sinking Fund shall be deposited in and maintained as a separate account or
accounts from all other accounts of the Town. The Operation and Maintenance
Fund and the Sewage Works Improvement Fund may be maintained in a single
account, or accounts, but such account, or accounts, shall likewise be
maintained separate and apart from all other accounts of the Town and apart
from the Sinking fund account or accounts. All monies deposited in the accounts
shall be deposited, held and secured as public funds in accordance with the
public depository laws of the State of Indiana; provided that monies therein
may be invested in obligations in accordance with the applicable laws,
including particularly Indiana Code, Title 5, Article 13, as amended or
supplemented, and section 20 and in the event of such investment the income
therefrom shall become a part of the funds invested and shall be used only as
provided in this ordinance. (Ord. No. 92-27, §14, 9-8-92)
                   
10   A complete copy of Ord. No. 92-27, which is continued in full force and
effect, is on file in the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
Sec. 9-151 through Sec. 9-157 Reserved for Future Use.
Division III. Miscellaneous Regulations Related to the Sewage Works.
Sec. 9-158 Release of Sewer Taps. 11
Upon the affirmative vote of the Town Council of the Town of Dyer, Indiana
lifting the moratorium on the issuance of new residential sewer taps by the
Town of Dyer, Indiana, thirty-three (33) residential sewer taps released by the
lifting of the moratorium shall be reserved for the use of Parkview Terrace 7th
Addition, being currently developed. (Res. No. 93-14, 8-10-93)
                       
11   Editor's Note: Res. No. 92-29 is similar to Res. No. 93-4 in that it
reserves a total of 121 sewer taps in the name of the developers of Autumn
Chase, Brighton Woods, and Heritage Estates Unit 6, and is continued in full
force and effect. It should be noted that Res. No. 91-5, adopted March 12,
1991, addressed a moratorium in the issuance of sewer taps.
Sec. 9-159 Assessment of a Surcharge for Disposal of Ground Water into the Dyer
Sanitary Sewer System.
The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Dyer shall assess a surcharge of fifty
dollars ($50.00) per month to each user of the sewer treatment system who has
been determined to have an illegal connection into the Dyer wastewater
treatment system. Prior to assessment of the surcharge, the subject property
shall be inspected by a duly authorized representative of the Town of Dyer
(unless said property has already been inspected within the past 12 months) and
notice of deficiency shall be sent to the owner of said property by certified
mail, return receipt requested, which notice shall be deemed given when mailed.
In the event the illegal connection has not been removed from the sewer
treatment system within thirty (30) days after the date of mailing of said
notice of deficiency, the name and address of the involved user shall be
submitted by the Town Council to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall assess a
surcharge to the user in the amount of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) per month, which
surcharge shall continue until the illegal connections have been removed from
the sewer system and the work inspected and approved by a duly authorized
representative of the Town of Dyer. The surcharge shall be deposited to the
Sewer Improvement Fund (Ord. No. 90-21, 6-12-90)
Sec. 9-160 Payment in Lieu of Taxes.
   a.   The Town of Dyer is entitled to assess and collect a payment in lieu of
property tax from the Dyer Sewer Utility based on the assessment value of the
property and holdings of the Dyer Sewer Utility pursuant to Burns Annotated
Statutes, Code Edition § 8-1.5-3-8. (Ord. No. 89-45, 12-12-89)
   b.   An ordinance pursuant by the Town Council is necessary to implement the
provisions of this Section.
Sec. 9-161 through Sec. 9-179 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 7. PROCEDURES REGARDING “UNDERGROUND UTILITY DISTRICTS”.
Sec. 9-180 Definitions.
Whenever in this ordinance the words or phrases hereinafter in this section
defined are used, they shall have the following definitions:
   a.   “Commission” shall mean the public service commission of the State of
Indiana.
   b.   “Poles, Overhead Wires and Associated Structures” shall mean poles,
towers, supports, wires, conductors, guys, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces,
transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits,
appliances, attachments and appurtenances located above-ground within a
district and used or useful in supplying electric, communication or similar or
associated service.
   c.   “Underground Utility District or District” means that areas in the Town
of Dyer within which poles, overhead wires, and associated overhead structures
are prohibited as such area is described in a resolution adopted pursuant to
the provisions of Section 1 of this ordinance or as such an area is delineated
as a subdivision on a filed final map or parcel map. (Ord. No. 83-33, § 1, 8-9-
83)
Sec. 9-181 Public Hearing.
The Town Council may from time to time call public hearings to ascertain
whether the public necessity, health, safety or welfare requires the removal of
poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures and the underground
installation of wires and facilities for supplying electric, communication, or
similar or associated service within designated areas of the Town. The Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall notify all affected property owners and utilities
concerned by mail of the time and place of such hearings at least ten days
prior to the date thereof. Each such hearing shall be open to the public and
may be continued from time to time. At each such hearing all persons interested
shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The decision of the Town Council
shall be final and conclusive. Such hearing shall be unnecessary in the case of
a new subdivision which is to become an underground utility district pursuant
to the zoning and subdivision ordinance. (Ord. No. 83-33, § 2, 8-9-83)
Sec. 9-182 Designation of Underground Utility District.
If, after any such public hearing, the Town Council finds that the public
necessity, health, safety or welfare requires such removal and such underground
installation within a designated area, the Council shall, by resolution,
declare such designated area an underground utility district and order such
removal and underground installation. Such resolution shall include a
description of a map of the area comprising such district and shall fix the
time within which such removal and underground installation shall be
accomplished and within which affected property owners must be ready to receive
underground service. A reasonable time shall be allowed for such removal and
underground installation, having due regard for the availability of labor,
materials and equipment necessary for such removal and for the installation of
such underground facilities as may be occasioned thereby.
In case of a new subdivision, the area shall become an underground utility
district upon the filing with the county recorder of the final map or parcel
map of said subdivision. Affected property owners must be ready to receive
underground service and such removal and underground installation must be
accomplished prior to the Town approving the improvements in the subdivision.
(Ord. No. 83-33, § 3, 8-9-83)
Sec. 9-183 Unlawful Acts.
Whenever the Town Council creates an underground utility district and orders
the removal of poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures therein
as provided in Section
9-142, it shall be unlawful for any person or utility to erect, construct,
maintain, continue, employ or operate poles, overhead wires and associated
overhead structures in the district after the date when said overhead
facilities are required to be removed by such resolution, except as said
overhead facilities may be required to furnish service to an owner or occupant
of property prior to the performance by such owner or occupant of the
underground work necessary for such owner or occupant to continue to receive
utility service as provided in Section
9-148 hereof, and for such reasonable time required to remove said facilities
after said work has been performed, and except as otherwise provided in this
ordinance. (Ord. No. 83-33, § 4, 8-9-83)
Sec. 9-184 Exception, Emergency, or Unusual Circumstances.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this ordinance, overhead facilities may be
installed and maintained for a period, not to exceed ten (10) days, without
authority of the Town Engineer in order to provide emergency service. The Town
Engineer may grant special permission, on such terms as he may deem
appropriate, in cases of emergency or unusual circumstances, without
discrimination as to any person or utility, to erect, construct, install,
maintain, use or operate poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures. (Ord. No. 83-33, § 5, 8-9-83)
Sec. 9-185 Other Exceptions.
This ordinance and any resolution adopted pursuant to Section
9-142 hereof shall, unless otherwise provided in such resolution, not to apply
to the following types of facilities:
   a.   Any municipal facilities or equipment installed under the supervision
and to the satisfaction of the Town Engineer.
   b.   Poles or electroliers used exclusively for street lighting,
   c.   Overhead wires, exclusive of supporting structures, crossing through a
district within which overhead wires have been prohibited when such wires
originate in an area from which poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures are not prohibited.
   d.   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for the
transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of thirty-four
thousand, five hundred (34,500) volts.
   e.   Overhead wires attached to the exterior surface of a building by means
of a bracket or other fixture and extending from one location on the building
to another location on the same building or extending from the building to
another building without crossing any public street.
   f.   Antennae, associated equipment and supporting structures, used by a
utility for furnishing communication services.
   g.   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface
mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets, and
concealed ducts.
   h.   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used
or to be used in conjunction with construction projects.
   i.   Overhead wires originating from outside the district which connect to
buildings on the perimeter of such district, provided such overhead wires shall
not cross any street within the district. (Ord. No. 83-33, § 6, 8-9-83)
Sec. 9-186 Notice to Property Owners and Utility.
Within ten (10 ) days after the effective date of a resolution adopted pursuant
to Section
9-182 hereof, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall notify all affected utilities and
all persons owning real property within the district created by said resolution
of the adoption thereof. Said Clerk-Treasurer shall further notify such
affected property owners of the necessity that, if they or any person occupying
such property desire to continue to receive electric, communication, or similar
or associated service, they or such occupant shall provide all necessary
facility changes on their premises so as to receive such service from the lines
of the supplying utility or utilities at a new location, subject to applicable
rules, regulations and tariffs of the respective utility or utilities on file
with the commission. (Ord. No. 3-33, § 7, 8-9-83)
Sec. 9-187 Responsibility of Utility.
Notification by the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be made by mailing a copy of the
resolution adopted pursuant to Section
9-182 hereof, the supplying utility shall furnish that portion of the conduits,
conductor and associate equipment required to be furnished by it under its
applicable rules, regulations and tariffs on file with the commission; provided
that if any provision of any agreement between the Town of Dyer and the
supplying utility is in conflict with any provision of the Section, the
provision of the agreement shall prevail. (Ord. No. 83-33, § 8, 8-9-83)
Sec. 9-188 Responsibility of Property Owners.
   a.   Every person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or renting a
building or structure within a district shall construct and provide that
portion of the service connection on his property between the facilities
referred to in Section
9-147 and the termination facility on or within the building or structure being
served, subject to applicable rules, regulations and tariffs of the respective
utility or utilities on file with the commission.
   b.   In the event any person owning, operating, leasing, occupying or
renting the property does not comply with the provisions of subsection (a) of
this section within the time provided for by section
9-146, the Plan Commission shall post written notice on the property being
served and thirty (30) days thereafter shall have the authority to order the
disconnection and removal of any and all overhead service wires and associated
facilities supplying utility service to the property. (Ord. No. 83-33, § 9, 8-
9-83)
Sec. 9-189 Responsibility of Town.
In the event that any act required by this ordinance or by a resolution adopted
pursuant to Section
9-182 hereof cannot be performed within the time provided on account of
shortage of materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor
disturbances, civil disobedience, or any other circumstances beyond the control
of the actor, then the time within which such act will be accomplished shall be
extended for a period equivalent to the time of such limitation. (Ord. No. 83-
33, § 10, 8-9-83)
Sec. 9-190 Extension of Time.
In the event that any act required by this ordinance or by a resolution adopted
pursuant to Section
9-182 hereof cannot be performed within the time provided on account of
shortage of materials, war, restraint by public authorities, strikes, labor
disturbances, civil disobedience, or any other circumstances beyond the control
of the actor, then the time within which such act will be accomplished shall be
extended for a period equivalent to the time of such limitation. (Ord. No. 83-
33, § 11, 8-9-83)
Sec. 9-191 Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this ordinance shall
be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each say during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. No. 83-33, §
12, 8-9-83)
Sec. 9-192 through Sec. 9-199 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 8. SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES. 12
                 
12   I.C., § 36-9-30-1, et seq., addresses Solid Waste Disposal Act.
Sec. 9-200 Quad-Town Council and Intergovernmental Cooperation.
   a.   The Dyer, Schererville, St. John, and Highland Town Councils further
attest to the necessary lessening of Solid Waste landfill use for specific
types of waste products.
   b.   The four (4) communities of Dyer, Schererville, St. John, and Highland
are presenting separate and joint efforts in administering to this cause.
   c.   The practice of composting will positively impact the above stated
purpose the signatures of the Quad-Town Council approve and promote these
efforts of Intergovernmental Cooperation.
   d.   Other Solid Waste Management Components will be reviewed, evaluated,
and acted upon to further promote the lessening of Solid Waste Landfill use.
(Res. No. 5, 6-12-90)
Sec. 9-201 Charges for Collection and Disposal of Solid Waste.
   a.   The 2021-2022 residential solid waste charge shall be $21.79 per month
per unit beginning with the utility bills that include the billing period of
mid-February to mid-March, 2021. These bills will be received in April 2021.
(Ord. No. 94-15, § 1, 9-13-94; Am. Ord. No. 97-12, 6-10-97; Am. Ord. No. 2000-
38, § 1, 12-19-00; Am. Ord. No. 2007-17, 9-19-07; Am. Ord. No. 2009-02, 1-28-
09; Am. Ord. No. 2015-03, 2-26-15; Am. Res. No. 2021-5, 2-11-21)
   b.   In addition, the occupant or occupants of each single family dwelling
unit shall be requested to make a voluntary contribution of 25¢ per month which
shall be used by the Town for promotion of Independence Day Celebration and
such other promotional functions of the Town as determined from time to time by
the Town Council. (Ord. No. 88-16, § 1, 3-8-88)
   c.   Fee for purchase and repair of equipment.
      1.   A solid waste fee in the sum of six dollars ($6.00) per residential
household is hereby established.
      2.   Any monies received from said solid waste fee shall be deposited in
the Solid Waste Fund and shall be utilized for the purchase and repair of
equipment utilized in limb and leaf pickup and disposal and for personnel costs
related to employees operating and maintaining said equipment.
      3.   Said solid waste fee shall be billed by the Town to residential
customers together with the trash service fee heretofore established by the
Town.
(Ord. No. 2008-21, 12-17-08; Am. Ord. No. 2015-02, passed 2-12-15; Am. Ord. No.
2016-30, 12-8-16; Am. Ord. No. 2022-30, 11-16-22)
Sec. 9-202 Solid Waste Disposal Facilities Fund.
All revenues collected pursuant to this ordinance shall be deemed to be the
revenues of the solid waste disposal facilities and shall be maintained in a
separate fund to be known as the Solid Waste Disposal Facilities Fund. (Ord.
No. 80-71, § 2, 12-23-80)
Sec. 9-203 Monthly Billing Procedure.
The charges herein set forth shall be billed monthly and shall be paid not
later than the 28th day of each month and in the event said charges are not
paid within thirty (30) days after the same are due, a ten percent (10%)
penalty shall be added to the charges. In the event the Town of Dyer is
required to institute a civil action to collect said charges and penalties, a
reasonable attorney fee may be recovered in addition to all sums due for said
charges and penalties. (Ord. No. 80-71, § 3, 12-23-80; Am. Ord. No. 2016-30,
12-8-16)
Sec. 9-204 Used Funds.
All rates or charges herein set forth shall be applied solely for the use of
solid waste disposal facilities, including but not limited to payments on
contract with persons for the collection or disposal of solid waste disposal
facilities, interests on bonds issued for the purpose of establishing solid
waste disposal facilities, engineering and legal expenses, expenses for
estimates of cost and revenues, expense for surveys and plans, and other
expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability
of the method or methods to be used for the disposal of refuse, administrative
expense and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the
financing herein authorized. (Ord. No. 80-71, § 4, 12-23-80)
Sec. 9-205 Yardwaste Stickers.
A fee of one dollar ($1.00) is required for the yardwaste stickers to cover the
costs incurred by the Town for the yardwaste collection services. This will
apply for all yardwaste stickers sold in the years 1994 and 1995. The required
yardwaste stickers shall be sold by the Clerk-Treasurer's Office in a minimum
lot of five (5) stickers at any one time. (Ord. No. 1994-14, § 1, 9-13-94)
Sec. 9-206 Size and Weight Limitations.
Effective as of October 1, 1994, all yardwaste shall be placed in kraft bags or
cans no larger than thirty (30) gallons in size and no more than seventy (70)
pounds, and shall be properly tagged with the required yardwaste stickers in
order to be collected.
(Ord. No. 1994-14, § 2, 9-13-94)
Sec. 9-207 Role of Town Council President.
The Town Council authorizes the Town Council President to sign the Addendum to
the Existing Yardwaste Collection Contract for yardwaste collection services.
(Ord. No. 1994-14, § 3, 9-13-94)
Sec. 9-208 Solid Waste/Recycling Commission.
   a.   Establishment. There is hereby established a Solid Waste/Recycling
Commission for the Town of Dyer.
   b.   Appointment of Commission Members; Qualifications; Terms of Office;
Removal from Office; Oaths; Compensation.
      1.   The Solid Waste/Recycling Commission shall be appointed by the Town
Council and consist of seven (7) members. Each Commission Member appointed must
be of good moral character and a legal resident of the Town. No political
affiliation shall be required for appointment. The initial term of office for
all Commissioners shall be when such appointment is made in calendar year 2001,
with each initial appointment terminating on December 31, 2001. Commencing in
year 2003, Commissioners' initial terms of service shall be in accordance with
the following:
         (a)   Two (2) Commissioners shall serve for three (3) year terms;
         (b)   Two (2) Commissioners shall serve for two (2) year terms;
         (c)   The remaining Commissioners shall serve for a one (1) year term.
         (d)   At the expiration of each Commissioners' initial term, as
described above, the Town Council shall fill the vacancy by appointing a new
Commissioner for a term of three (3) years. The Commission shall annually elect
a President, a Vice-President and a Recording/Corresponding Secretary from its
existing membership. Election of persons to these positions shall take place at
the Commission's annual organizational meeting to be held in January of each
calendar year.
      2.   All Commission Members appointed shall serve only upon the giving of
an oath for said position.
      3.   Each Commission Member shall be subject to removal by a majority of
the Town Council for any cause deemed sufficient by the Town Council.
      4.   Before entering upon his or her duties, each Commission Member shall
take and subscribe an oath of office before the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      5.   The salary of the Commission Members may be fixed by the Town
Council. In the event that the Town Council does establish a salary or
compensation for the Commission Members appointed to such positions, the same
shall be payable out of the General Fund of the Town. Salary or compensation
shall be established by appropriate amendment and inclusion in the Town Salary
Ordinance, as amended from time to time.
   c.   Powers and Duties of Solid Waste/Recycling Commission. The Solid Waste/
Recycling Commission will undertake the following duties and responsibilities,
namely:
      1.   Communicate with the then-current Town Garbage-Recycling vendor
regarding service, contract provisions, public relations, communications,
education, and the like.
      2.   Supervise, oversee and operate the “FUN IN THE PARK” annual fund-
raising program, including, but not limited to, overseeing and having
jurisdiction over the garage sale, distribution of recycling information, and
utilization of resources from the Lake County Solid Waste Management District
for the same.
      3.   Monitor and stay current with the actions and activities of the Lake
County Solid Waste Management District, including, but not limited to,
monitoring and reviewing Lake County Solid Waste Management District Board
Meeting Minutes, Resolutions, budget matters and disbursements to the Town of
Dyer.
      4.   Review and recommend appropriate uses for the Grant Monies
distributed to the Town from the Lake County Solid Waste Management District
annually.
      5.   Attend, when able, Lake County Waste Management District meetings.
      6.   Submit proposed budgets for the operation of the Solid Waste/
Recycling Commission for travel and educational expenses for the Members of the
Solid Waste/Recycling Commission. This budget is required to be prepared and
submitted in a timely fashion so as to be included in the general budget as is
proposed for the operation of the Town each calendar year.
      7.   Monitor and remain informed regarding all current events and
circumstances pertaining to solid waste and recycling issues and matters of
concern to the Town.
      8.   Monitor and remain informed pertaining to legislation, whether
local, State or Federal, that is of importance to the Town and/or will impact
the Town.
      9.   Provide recommendations regarding solid waste and recycling matters
to the Town Council, as Legislative Body of the Town, for all matters related
to solid waste and recycling.
      10.   Promulgate appropriate rules and regulations for solid waste and
recycling matters and circumstances in the Town of Dyer, and provide
recommendations of the same to the Town Council.
(Ord. No. 2001-06, §§ 1-3, 3-20-01; Am. Ord. No. 2002-35, 11-19-02; Am. Ord.
No. 2007-03, 2-21-07)
Sec. 9-209 through Sec. 9-239 Reserved for Future Use.
CHAPTER 10
ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS
ARTICLE 1. DYER FLOOD HAZARD AREA ORDINANCE.
   Division I. Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and
Objectives.
Sec. 10-1   Statutory Authorization.
Sec. 10-2   Findings of Fact.
Sec. 10-3   Statement of Purpose.
Sec. 10-4   Methods of Reducing Flood Loss.
Sec. 10-5   Definitions.
   Division II. General Provisions.
Sec. 10-6   Lands to Which this Ordinance Applies.
Sec. 10-7   Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard.
Sec. 10-8   Establishment of Floodplain Development Permit.
Sec. 10-9   Compliance.
Sec. 10-10   Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.
Sec. 10-11   Discrepancy Between Mapped Floodplain and Actual Ground
Elevations.
Sec. 10-12   Interpretation.
Sec. 10-13   Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.
Sec. 10-14   Penalties for Violation.
   Division III. Administration.
Sec. 10-15   Designation of Administrator.
Sec. 10-16   Floodplain Development Permit and Certification Requirements.
Sec. 10-17   Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
Sec. 10-18   Administrative Procedures.
Sec. 10-19   Map Maintenance Activities.
Sec. 10-20   Variance Procedures.
   Division IV. Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction.
Sec. 10-21   Floodplain Status Standards.
Sec. 10-22   General Standards.
Sec. 10-23   Specific Standards.
Sec. 10-24   Standards for Subdivision and Other New Developments.
Sec. 10-25   Standards for Critical Facilities.
   Division V. Legal Status Provisions.
Sec. 10-26   Severability.
Sec. 10-27   Effective Date.
ARTICLE 2. RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3. SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE.
   Division I. Policy, Purpose and Authority.
Sec. 10-36   Title.
Sec. 10-37   Policy.
Sec. 10-38   Purposes of These Regulations.
Sec. 10-39   Authority and Jurisdiction.
Sec. 10-40   Definitions.
Sec. 10-41 through Sec. 10-44 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division II. Procedures.
Sec. 10-45   Initial Submission - Requirements - Staff Meeting.
Sec. 10-46   Plan Commission Study Session.
Sec. 10-47   Request for Public Hearing.
Sec. 10-48   Primary & Secondary Approvals.
Sec. 10-49 through Sec. 10-54 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division III. Procedure for Subdivision Control.
Sec. 10-55   General Improvements.
Sec. 10-56 through Sec. 10-59 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division IV. Streets.
Sec. 10-60   General Requirements for Streets.
Sec. 10-61   Grading and Improvement Plan.
Sec. 10-62   Topography and Arrangement.
Sec. 10-63   Blocks.
Sec. 10-64   Access to Collector Streets.
Sec. 10-65   Access to Primary Arterials.
Sec. 10-66   Street Regulatory Signs.
Sec. 10-67   Street lights.
Sec. 10-68   Construction of Streets.
Sec. 10-69   Design Standards.
Sec. 10-70   Intersections.
Sec. 10-71   Street Dedications and Reservations.
Sec. 10-72   Lot Improvements.
Sec. 10-73   Drainage and Storm Sewers.
Sec. 10-74   Extension of Municipal Services.
Sec. 10-75   Replacement of Special Driveway Aprons.
Sec. 10-76   through Sec. 10-77 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VI. Mandatory Park Dedication.
Sec. 10-78   Conditions for Secondary Subdivision Approval.
Sec. 10-79   Criteria for Requiring Park and Recreation Land Dedication.
Sec. 10-80   Reservation of Additional Land.
Sec. 10-81   Improved Sites.
Sec. 10-82   Procedure.
Sec. 10-83   Applicable only to Residential Zoned Subdivision.
Sec. 10-84   Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VII. Construction Procedures.
Sec. 10-85   Liability Insurance.
Sec. 10-86   Pre-Construction Conference.
Sec. 10-87   Advanced Notification.
Sec. 10-88   Inspection Checklist.
Sec. 10-89   Acceptance Procedures.
Sec. 10-90 through Sec. 10-93 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division VIII. General Provisions.
Sec. 10-94   Interpretation, Conflict, and Separability.
Sec. 10-95   Saving Provision.
Sec. 10-96   Repealer.
Sec. 10-97   Amendments.
Sec. 10-98   Conditions.
Sec. 10-99   Resubdivision of Land.
Sec. 10-100   Vacation of Plats.
Sec. 10-101   Modifications.
Sec. 10-102   Enforcement, Violations, and Penalties.
Sec. 10-103   Reserved for Future Use.
   Division X. Certificates.
Sec. 10-104   Certificates Required.
Sec. 10-105   Certificate of Approval.
Sec. 10-106   Land Surveyor's or Registered Professional Engineer's
Certificate.
Sec. 10-107   Legal Description Certificate.
Sec. 10-108   Acknowledgement Certificate.
Sec. 10-109   Dedication Certificate.
Sec. 10-110   Provision for Private Deed Restrictions or Covenants.
Sec. 10-111   Other Certificates.
Sec. 10-112   Enactment.
Sec. 10-113   Table 1 – Design Standards–Streets.
Sec. 10-114   Table 2 – Intersection Design Standards.
   Division XI. Design Standards for Erosion and Sediment Control.
Sec. 10-115.1   Permit for Installation of Erosion and Sediment Control
Systems.
Sec. 10-115.2   Review and Approval
Sec. 10-115.3   Erosion and Sediment Control Plan.
Sec. 10-115.4   Design Requirements.
Sec. 10-115.5   Inspection.
Sec. 10-116 through Sec. 10-118 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. ZONING.
   Division I. Zoning Ordinance.
Sec. 10-119   Schedule of Fees.
Sec. 10-120   Definitions.
Sec. 10-121   Establishment of Districts – Provisions for Official Zoning Map.
Sec. 10-122   Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries.
Sec. 10-123   Application of District Regulations.
Sec. 10-124   Non-Conforming Lots, Non-Conforming Uses of Land, Non-Conforming
Structures, Non- Conforming Uses of Structures and Premises.
Sec. 10-125   Protection of Shoreland, Watercourses and Wetlands.
Sec. 10-126   Excavations.
Sec. 10-127   Private Swimming Pools.
Sec. 10-128   Temporary Tract Offices.
Sec. 10-129   Filling Stations.
Sec. 10-130   Schedule of Zoning Districts Adopted.
Sec. 10-131   Supplementary District Regulations.
Sec. 10-132   Off-Street Parking Lots and Loading Areas.
Sec. 10-133   Administration and Enforcement - Building Permits and
Certificates of Zoning Compliance.
Sec. 10-134   Board of Zoning Appeals - Establishment and Procedure.
Sec. 10-135   The Board of Zoning Appeals - Powers and Duties.
Sec. 10-136   Appeals From the Board of Zoning Appeals
Sec. 10-137   Duties of Administrative official, Board of Zoning Appeals, and
Courts on Matters of Appeal.
Sec. 10-138   Schedule of Fees, Charges and Expenses.
Sec. 10-139   Amendments.
Sec. 10-140   Provisions of Ordinance Declared to be Minimum Requirements.
Sec. 10-141   Complaints Regarding Violations.
Sec. 10-142   Penalties for Violations.
Sec. 10-143   Severability Clause.
Sec. 10-144   Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances - Effective Date.
Sec. 10-145   Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 10-146   Sign Regulations.
Sec. 10-146.1   General Provisions.
Sec. 10-146.2   Prohibited Signs.
Sec. 10-146.3   Off Premises Signs.
Sec. 10-146.4   Restrictions.
Sec. 10-146.5   Signs in Residential Districts.
Sec. 10-146.6   Signs in B-2, B-3 and I Districts.
Sec. 10-146.7   Signs in B-1 Business Districts.
Sec. 10-146.8   Exemptions.
Sec. 10-146.9   Enforcement.
Sec. 10-146.10   Sign Permit Fees.
Sec. 10-146.11   Definitions.
Sec. 10-146.12   Signs in Special Use Districts.
Sec. 10-147   Landscaping Requirements.
Sec. 10-147.1   Purpose.
Sec. 10-147.2   Applicability.
Sec. 10-147.3   General Requirements.
Sec.
10-147.4   Landscape Plan Submission Requirements.
Sec.
10-147.5   Parkway Landscaping.
Sec.
10-147.6   Screening.
Sec.
10-147.7   Buffer Yard.
Sec.
10-147.8   Property Interior Requirements.
Sec.
10-147.9   Parking Lot Requirements.
Sec.
10-147.10   Maintenance Requirements.
Sec.
10-147.11   Design Guidelines.
Sec. 10-147.12   Parking Lot Perimeter Requirements.
Sec. 10-147.13   Parking Lot Interior Requirements.
Sec. 10-147.14   Appendix A through D.
Sec. 10-148   Exterior Light Requirements.
Sec. 10-148.1   Purpose.
Sec. 10-148.2   Applicability.
Sec. 10-148.3   Definitions.
Sec. 10-148.4   Regulations.
Sec. 10-148.5   Light Trespass.
Sec. 10-148.6   General Lighting Design Requirements.
Sec. 10-148.7   Site Plans.
Sec. 10-148.8   Exemptions.
Sec. 10-148.9   Street Lighting.
Sec. 10-148.10   Injunction.
Sec. 10-148.11   Immunity from Prosecution.
Sec. 10-148.12 through 10-148.99 Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 10-149 through Sec. 10-154 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division II. Special Use Districts.
Sec. 10-155   Definition of Special Use District (SUD).
Sec. 10-156   Applicability of Special Use District Regulations.
Sec. 10-157   Purpose for Special Use District Regulations.
Sec. 10-158   Outline Development Plan.
Sec. 10-159   Application Process: Preliminary Development Plan.
Sec. 10-160   Application Process: Final Development Plan.
Sec. 10-161   Special Use District - West U.S. 30 Corridor
Sec. 10-161.1   Application.
Sec. 10-161.2   Building Types and Uses.
Sec. 10-161.3   Area Regulations.
Sec. 10-161.4   Building Standards.
Sec. 10-161.5   Parking.
Sec. 10-161.6   Utilities, Accessory Structures and Garbage.
Sec. 10-161.7   Non-Conforming Uses.
Sec. 10-161.8   Amendment to Zoning Map.
Sec. 10-162   Special Use District - Calumet Avenue Corridor.
Sec. 10-162.1   Application.
Sec. 10-162.2   Developmental Standards.
Sec. 10-162.3   Conflict.
Sec. 10-162.4   Application Process/Site Plan Review.
Sec. 10-162.5   Amendment of Zoning Map.
Sec. 10-162.6   Public Hearing on Petition; Recommendation.
Sec. 10-163   Building Standards.
Sec. 10-164   Parking.
Sec. 10-165   Utilities, Accessory Structures and Garbage.
Sec. 10-166   Non-Conforming Uses.
Sec. 10-167   Amendment to Zoning Map.
Sec. 10-167.1   Special Use District - Sheffield Avenue Corridor.
Sec. 10-167.2   Public Hearing on Petition; Recommendation.
   Division III. Sexually Oriented Businesses.
Sec. 10-168.1   Policy.
Sec. 10-168.2   Definitions.
Sec. 10-168.3   Permit Required.
Sec. 10-168.4   Investigation and Application.
Sec. 10-168.5   Issuance of Permit.
Sec. 10-168.6   Annual Permit Fee.
Sec. 10-168.7   Inspection.
Sec. 10-168.8   Expiration of Permit.
Sec. 10-168.9   Suspension of Permit.
Sec. 10-168.10   Revocation of Permit.
Sec. 10-168.11   Judicial Review of Permit Denial, Suspension or Revocation.
Sec. 10-168.12   Transfer of Permit.
Sec. 10-168.13   Sexually Oriented Business Employee License.
Sec. 10-168.14   Regulations Pertaining to Exhibition of Sexually Explicit
Films or Videos in Video Booths.
Sec. 10-168.15   Prohibitions Regarding Minors and Sexually Oriented
Businesses.
Sec. 10-168.16   Advertising and Lighting Regulations.
Sec. 10-168.17   Hours of Operation.
Sec. 10-168.18   Nudity at Sexually Oriented Businesses Prohibited.
Sec. 10-168.19   Regulations Pertaining to Live Entertainment.
Sec. 10-168.20   Exemptions.
Sec. 10-168.21   Prohibition of Distribution of Sexual Devices.
Sec. 10-168.22   Penalties and Injunctive Relief.
Sec. 10-169 through Sec. 10-174 Reserved for Future Use.
   Division IV. Fences.
Sec. 10-175   Front Yard Fence Regulations.
Sec. 10-176   Barbed Wire.
Sec. 10-177   Residential Fences.
Sec. 10-178   Fences in Commercial Districts.
Sec. 10-179   Fences in Industrial Districts.
Sec. 10-180   Front Yard Requirements in Commercial and Industrial Districts.
Sec. 10-181 through Sec. 10-189 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 1. DYER FLOOD HAZARD AREA ORDINANCE.
Division I. Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives.
Sec. 10-1 Statutory Authorization.
   The Indiana Legislature has in I.C. 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Town Council of the Town of Dyer does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-2 Findings of Fact.
   The flood hazard areas of the Town of Dyer are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated floodproofed, or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. To
minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes hereinafter set
forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-3 Statement of Purpose.
   It is the purpose of this ordinance to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   a.   Protect human life and health;
   b.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   c.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   d.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   e.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains;
   f.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
area;
   g.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   h.   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   i.   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   j.   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values of
the floodplain;
   k.   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   l.   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-4 Methods of Reducing Flood Loss.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   a.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   b.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   c.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   d.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   e.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-5 Definitions.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this ordinance
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this ordinance its most reasonable application.
   Accessory structure. A structure with a floor area of 400 square feet or
less that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure and the
use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure; an accessory
structure specifically excludes structures used for human habitation.
      1.   Accessory structures are considered walled and roofed where the
structure includes at least two outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof.
      2.   Examples of accessory structures include but are not necessarily
limited to two-car detached garages (or smaller), carports, storage and tool
sheds, and small boathouses.
      3.   The following may have uses that are incidental or accessory to the
principal structure on a parcel but are generally not considered to be
accessory structures by the NFIP:
         a.   Structures in which any portion is used for human habitation,
whether as a permanent residence or as temporary or seasonal living quarters,
such as a detached garage or carriage house that includes an apartment or guest
quarters, or a detached guest house on the same parcel as a principal
residence;
         b.   Structures used by the public, such as a place of employment or
entertainment; and
         c.   Development that does not meet the NFIP definition of a structure
for floodplain management purposes. Examples include, but are not necessarily
limited to, a gazebo, pavilion, picnic shelter, or carport that is open on all
sides (roofed but not walled).
   Addition (to an existing structure). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   Alteration of a watercourse. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other modification which may alter,
impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the flow of water
during conditions of the base flood.
   Appeal. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this ordinance, a request for a variance, or
a challenge of a board decision.
   Area of special flood hazard. The land within a community subject to a one
percent (1%) or greater chance of being flooded in any given year
   Base flood. The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the one
percent (1%) annual chance flood or one hundred (100) year flood.
   Base flood elevation (BFE). The water surface elevation of the base flood in
relation to a specified datum, usually the North American Vertical Datum of
1988.
   Basement. That portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   Best available flood layer (BAFL). Floodplain studies and any corresponding
floodplain maps prepared and/or approved by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources which provide base flood elevation information, floodplain limits,
and/or floodway delineations for flood hazards identified by approximate
studies on the currently effective FIRM (Zone A) and/or for waterways where the
flood hazard is not identified on available floodplain mapping.
   Building. See Structure.
   Community. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the areas within its jurisdiction.
   Critical facility. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. Critical facilities include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire, and emergency response
installations, and installations which produce, use or store hazardous
materials or hazardous waste.
   Development. For floodplain management purposes, any man-made change to
improved or unimproved real estate including but not limited to:
      1.   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      2.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      3.   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
      4.   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, etc.;
      5.   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
      6.   Construction and/or reconstruction of boat lifts, docks, piers and
seawalls;
      7.   Construction and/or reconstruction of, bridges or culverts;
      8.   Storage of materials; or
      9.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   Development does not include activities such as the maintenance of existing
structures and facilities such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing roads; or,
gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not involve
filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent structures.
   Elevation certificate. A FEMA form that is routinely reviewed and approved
by the White House Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork
Reduction Act, that is encouraged to be used to collect certified elevation
information.
   Enclosed area (enclosure). An area of a structure enclosed by walls on all
sides.
   Enclosure below the lowest floor. See Lowest floor and Enclosed area.
   Existing manufactured home park or subdivision. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   Expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   Fill. For floodplain management purposes, means any material deposited or
placed which has the effect of raising the level of the ground surface above
the natural grade elevation. Fill material includes but is not limited to
consolidated material such as concrete and brick and unconsolidated material
such as soil, sand, gravel, and stone.
   Flood or flooding. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
      3.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding
and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally
dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited
along the path of the current.
   Flood or flooding also includes the collapse or subsidence of land along the
shore of a lake or similar body of water as a result of erosion or undermining
caused by waves or current of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels that
result in a flood as defined above.
   Flood hazard area. Areas subject to the one percent annual chance flood (see
Special flood hazard area).
   Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
   Flood Insurance Study (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   Flood prone area. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source (see Floodplain).
   Flood protection grade (FPG). The BFE plus two (2) feet at any given
location in the SFHA. See Freeboard.
   Floodplain or flood prone area. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See Flood).
   Floodplain management. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   Floodplain management regulations. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance), and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. The term describes such state or local regulations in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   Floodproofing (dry floodproofing). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   Floodproofing certificate. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG.
   Floodway. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulative increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   Freeboard. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   Fringe or flood fringe. The portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   Functionally dependent use. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   Hardship (as related to variances of this ordinance). The exceptional
hardship that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The
Town of Dyer Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional,
unusual, and peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial
hardship alone is NOT exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations,
physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors
likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All these
problems can be resolved through other means without granting a variance, even
if the alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   Highest adjacent grade. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   Historic structure. Any structure that is:
      1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      3.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      4.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by (a)
an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of Interior, or (b)
directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved programs.
   Hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis. Analyses performed by a
professional engineer licensed by the State of Indiana, in accordance with
standard engineering practices that are accepted by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and FEMA, used to determine the base flood, other frequency
floods, flood elevations, floodway information and boundaries, and flood
profiles.
   International Code Council-Evaluation Service (ICC-ES) Report. A document
that presents the findings, conclusions, and recommendations from a particular
evaluation. ICC-ES reports provide information about what code requirements or
acceptance criteria were used to evaluate a product, and how the product should
be identified, installed.
   Letter of Final Determination (LFD).  A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   Letter of Map Change (LOMC).  A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They are broken down into the following categories:
      1.   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR). FEMA's comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, result in modification of the
SFHA through the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
      2.   Conditional Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (CLOMR-F). A letter
from FEMA stating that a proposed structure that will be elevated by fill would
not be inundated by the base flood.
      3.   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a building or of land is not
located in a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A
LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      4.   Letter of Map Amendment Out as Shown (LOMA-OAS). An official
determination by FEMA that states the property or building is correctly shown
outside the SFHA as shown on an effective NFIP map. Therefore, the mandatory
flood insurance requirement does not apply. An out-as-shown determination does
not require elevations.
      5.   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations,
and elevations.
      6.   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F). FEMA's modification
of the SFHA shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill outside the
existing regulatory floodway.
   Lowest adjacent grade. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   Lowest floor. The lowest elevation described among the following:
      1.   The lowest floor of a building.
      2.   The basement floor.
      3.   The garage floor if the garage is connected to the building.
      4.   The first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or pillars.
      5.   The floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement, below an
elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to
the flow of floodwaters. Designs for meeting the flood opening requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet
or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters.
         (b)   At least two (2) openings are designed and maintained for the
entry and exit of floodwater; and these openings provide a total net area of at
least one (1) square inch for every one (1) square foot of enclosed area. The
bottom of all such openings shall be no higher than one (1) foot above the
exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher. Doorways and windows do not qualify as openings.
      6.   The first floor of a building elevated on pilings or columns in a
coastal high hazard area (as that term is defined in 44 CFR 59.1), as long as
it meets the requirements of 44 CFR 60.3.
   Manufactured home. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
manufactured home does not include a recreational vehicle.
   Manufactured home park or subdivision. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   Mitigation. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of mitigation
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   Natural grade. The elevation of the undisturbed natural surface of the
ground. Fill placed prior to the date of the initial identification of the
flood hazard on a FEMA map is also considered natural grade.
   New construction. Any structure for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   New manufactured home park or subdivision. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community's first floodplain ordinance.
   Non-residential building. A commercial or non-habitational building, or a
mixed-use building that does not qualify as a residential building. This
category includes, but is not limited to, small businesses, churches, schools,
garages, pool houses, clubhouses, recreational buildings, mercantile buildings,
agricultural and industrial buildings, warehouses, nursing homes, licensed bed
and-breakfasts, and hotels and motels with normal room rentals for less than
six (6) months.
   North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   Obstruction. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   One-percent (1%) annual chance flood. The flood that has a one percent (1%)
chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year. See Regulatory flood.
   Physical Map Revision (PMR). An official republication of a community's FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   Prefabricated building. A building that is manufactured and constructed
using prefabrication. It consists of factory-made components or units that are
transported and assembled on-site to form the complete building.
   Principally above ground. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   Recreational vehicle. A vehicle which is:
      1.   Built on a single chassis;
      2.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck;
      4.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   Regulatory flood. The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure
that is acceptable to and approved by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood
elevation at any location is as defined in Sec. 10-7. The regulatory flood is
also known by the term base flood, one-percent annual chance flood, and 100-
year flood.
   Repetitive loss. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten (10)-year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equaled or exceeded
twenty-five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   Riverine. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   Special flood hazard area (SFHA), synonymous with areas of special flood
hazard and floodplain. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the Town subject
to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year. Special flood
hazard areas are designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on Flood
Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Insurance Studies, as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30,
A99, or VE. The SFHA includes areas that are flood prone and designated from
other federal, state or local sources of data including but not limited to best
available flood layer maps provided by or approved by the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources, historical flood information reflecting high water marks,
previous flood inundation areas, and flood prone soils associated with a
watercourse.
   Start of construction.  Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days
of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab
or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any
work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on
a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   Structure. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground. The term includes a manufactured home,
as well as a prefabricated building. It also includes recreational vehicles
installed on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
   Substantial damage. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   Substantial improvement. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty
percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures that have
incurred repetitive loss or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair
work performed. The term does not include improvements of structures to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code
requirements.
   Variance. A grant of relief from the requirements of this ordinance
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   Violation. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this ordinance.
   Walled and roofed. A building that has two or more exterior rigid walls and
a fully secured roof and is affixed to a permanent site.
   Watercourse. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Division II. General Provisions.
Sec. 10-6 Lands to Which This Ordinance Applies.
   This ordinance shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard (SFHAs)
within the jurisdiction of the Town of Dyer, Indiana as identified in Sec. 10-
7, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the Town
of Dyer, Indiana.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-7 Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard.
   a.   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the Town of Dyer, delineated as an "AE
Zone" on the Lake County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate
Map dated January 18, 2012 shall be determined from the one-percent annual
chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Lake County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas and the corresponding Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) dated
January 18, 2012 as well as any subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date.
Should the floodway limits not be delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
for a studied SFHA designated as an "AE Zone", the limits of the floodway will
be according to the best available flood layer as provided by the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
   b.   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for each of
the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the Town of Dyer, delineated as an "A
Zone" on the Lake County, Indiana and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate
Map, dated January 18, 2012, as well as any subsequent updates, amendments, or
revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date, shall be according to the best available flood layer provided by
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage
area from the subject site is greater than one square mile. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available flood layer data, the party needs to replace
existing data with better data that meets current engineering standards. To be
considered, this data must be submitted to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   c.   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification on
a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of any
watercourse in the community's known flood prone areas shall be according to
the best available flood layer as provided by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is greater
than one square mile.
   d.   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-8 Establishment of Floodplain Development Permit.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this ordinance prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-9 Compliance.
   a.   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this ordinance and other applicable regulations.
   b.   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this ordinance
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the most conservative
(highest) base flood elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed
structure; or for other developments, affecting any part of the area of the
development.
   c.   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without
full compliance with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-10 Abrogation and Greater Restrictions.
   This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this ordinance and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-11 Discrepancy Between Mapped Floodplain and Actual Ground Elevations.
   a.   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) with base flood elevations provided (riverine or lacustrine Zone AE) on
the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on the
profiles or table of still water elevations shall govern.
   b.   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   c.   If the natural grade elevation of the site in question is at or above
the base flood elevation and a LOMA or LOMR-FW is obtained, the floodplain
regulations will not be applied provided the LOMA or LOMR-FW is not
subsequently superseded or invalidated.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-12 Interpretation.
   In the interpretation and application of this ordinance all provisions shall
be:
   a.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   b.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   c.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-13 Warning and Disclaimer of Liability.
   The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this ordinance does not create any
liability on the part of the Town of Dyer, the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources, or the State of Indiana, for any flood damage that results from
reliance on this ordinance, or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-14 Penalties for Violation.
   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or failure to
comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or conditions
of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this ordinance. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code for the Town of Dyer. All
violations shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   a.   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   b.   The Town of Dyer Town Council shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   c.   Nothing herein shall prevent the Town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Division III. Administration.
Sec. 10-15 Designation of Administrator.
   The Town Council of the Town of Dyer hereby appoints the Stormwater
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this ordinance and
is herein referred to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-16 Floodplain Development Permit and Certification Requirements.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator for all development activities located wholly within,
partially within, or in contact with an identified special flood hazard area.
Such application shall be made by the owner of the property or his/her
authorized agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual
commencement of such construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Such
applications shall include, but not be limited to plans drawn to scale showing
the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question;
existing or proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or
equipment, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
   a.   Application stage.
      1.   A description of the proposed development;
      2.   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately locate
property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
      3.   A legal description of the property site;
      4.   For the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of an
existing structure, or an addition to an existing building, a detailed quote
and description of the total work to be completed including but not limited to
interior work, exterior work, and labor as well as a certified valuation of the
existing (pre-improved or pre-damaged) structure;
      5.   A site development plan showing existing and proposed development
locations and existing and proposed land grades;
      6.   Verification that connection to either a public sewer system or to
an approved on-site septic system is available and approved by the respective
regulatory agency for proposed structures to be equipped with a restroom,
kitchen or other facilities requiring disposal of wastewater;
      7.   Plans showing elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures in Zones A, AE. Elevation
should be in NAVD 88;
      8.   Plans showing elevation (in NAVD 88) to which any non-residential
structure will be floodproofed;
      9.   Plans showing location and specifications for flood openings for any
proposed structure with enclosed areas below the flood protection grade;
      10.   Plans showing materials to be used below the flood protection grade
for any proposed structure are flood resistant;
      11.   Plans showing how any proposed structure will be anchored to resist
flotation or collapse;
      12.   Plans showing how any electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities are designed and/or
located. Elevation should be in NAVD 88;
      13.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis is required, and any watercourse changes submitted to DNR
for approval. Once DNR approval is obtained, a FEMA Conditional Letter of Map
Revision must be obtained prior to construction. (See Sec. 10-17b.8. and Sec.
10-19 for additional information.)
      14.   Any additional information, as requested by the Floodplain
Administrator, which may be necessary to determine the disposition of a
proposed development or structure with respect to the requirements of this
ordinance.
   b.   Construction stage.
      1.   Upon establishment of the lowest floor of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD
elevation of the lowest floor, as built. Said certification shall be prepared
by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. The Floodplain Administrator
shall review the lowest floor elevation survey data submitted. The applicant
shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any further work is
allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to make said
corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the
project. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the elevation certification
shall be at the applicant's risk.
      2.   Upon establishment of the floodproofed elevation of a floodproofed
structure, it shall be the duty of the applicant to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a floodproofing certificate. Certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer and
certified by same. (The Floodplain Administrator shall review the floodproofing
certification submitted.) The applicant shall correct any deficiencies detected
by such review before any further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit
the floodproofing certification or failure to make correction required shall be
cause to issue a stop work order for the project.
   c.   Finished construction.
      1.   Upon completion of construction of an elevated structure or
structure constructed on fill, an elevation certificate which depicts the "as-
built" lowest floor elevation and other applicable elevation data is required
to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator. The elevation
certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor and certified by the same.
      2.   Upon completion of construction of a floodproofing measure, a
floodproofing certificate is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator. The floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or architect
and certified by same.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-17 Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator.
   a.   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this ordinance. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this
ordinance, which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   b.   Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Enforce the provisions of this ordinance.
      2.   Evaluate application for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas to assure that the permit requirements of this ordinance have been
satisfied.
      3.   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information.
      4.   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance.
      5.   Advise permittee that additional federal, state and/or local permits
may be required. If specific federal, state and/or local permits are known,
require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file with the
floodplain development permit.
      6.   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
      7.   For applications to improve structures, including alterations,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of substantial
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Verify and document the market value of the pre-damaged or pre-
improved structure;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement; or the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition; or, the combined costs
of improvements and repair, if applicable, to the market value of the
predamaged or pre-improved structure. The cost of all work must be included in
the project costs, including work that might otherwise be considered routine
maintenance. Items/activities that must be included in the cost shall be in
keeping with guidance published by FEMA to ensure compliance with the NFIP and
to avoid any conflict with future flood insurance claims of policyholders
within the community;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of "substantial improvement" for proposed work to
repair damage caused by flood, the determination requires evaluation of
previous permits issued to repair flood-related damage as specified in the
definition of substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the applicable general and specific standards in Sec.
10-21 through
10-25 are required.
      8.   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      9.   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
Sec.
10-21a.,
10-21c.1. and
10-21d. of this ordinance. Maintain a record of such authorization (either copy
of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment).
      10.   Verify the upstream drainage area of any proposed development site
near any watercourse not identified on a FEMA map to determine if Sec.
10-17b.9. is applicable.
      11.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
      12.   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with Sec.
10-16.
      13.   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with
Sec.
10-16.
      14.   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with Sec.
10-18.
      15.   Coordinate with insurance adjusters prior to permitting any
proposed work to bring any flood-damaged structure covered by a standard flood
insurance policy into compliance (either a substantially damaged structure or a
repetitive loss structure) to ensure eligibility for ICC funds.
      16.   Ensure that an approved connection to a public sewer system or an
approved on-site septic system is planned for any structures (residential or
non-residential) to be equipped with a restroom, kitchen or other facilities
requiring disposal of wastewater.
      17.   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
      18.   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke permits
and take corrective actions in accordance with Sec.
10-18.
      19.   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and "as-built" elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this ordinance in accordance with Sec.
10-18.
      20.   Coordinate map maintenance activities and associated FEMA follow-up
in accordance with Sec.
10-19.
      21.   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      22.   Request any additional information which may be necessary to
determine the disposition of a proposed development or structure with respect
to the requirements of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-18 Administrative Procedures.
   a.   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and terms of the permit. In exercising this
power, the Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credential,
to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable
hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   b.   Stop work orders.
      1.   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any building,
structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions of this
ordinance shall immediately cease.
      2.   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state
the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   c.   Revocation of permits.
      1.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval, issued
under the provisions of the ordinance, in cases where there has been any false
statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application or
plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      2.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this ordinance.
   d.   Floodplain management records.
      1.   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention of
public records, records of actions associated with the administration of this
ordinance shall be kept on file and maintained under the direction of the
Floodplain Administrator in perpetuity. These records include permit
applications, plans, certifications, Flood Insurance Rate Maps; Letter of Map
Change; records of issuance of permits and denial of permits; determinations of
whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage; required design certifications and documentation of
elevations required by this ordinance; notifications to adjacent communities,
FEMA, and the state related to alterations of watercourses; assurances that the
flood carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be maintained;
documentation related to appeals and variances, including justification for
issuance or denial; and record of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this
ordinance.
      2.   These records shall be available for public inspection at the Dyer
Town Hall located at One Town Square, Dyer, IN 46311.
   e.   Periodic inspection. Once a project is completed, periodic inspections
may be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
Floodplain Administrator shall have a right upon presentation of proper
credential, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the
department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
(Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-19 Map Maintenance Activities.
   To meet NFIP minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved
by FEMA, and to ensure that the Town of Dyer's flood maps, studies and other
data identified in Sec. 10-7 accurately represent flooding conditions so
appropriate floodplain management criteria are based on current data, the
following map maintenance activities are identified:
   a.   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      1.   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations.
      2.   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have required technical
data for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision or Letter of Map Revision and
submitted to FEMA. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources will review the
submittals as part of a partnership with FEMA. The submittal should be mailed
to the Indiana Department of Natural Resources at the address provided on the
FEMA form (MT-2) or submitted through the online Letter of Map Change website.
Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be the
responsibility of the applicant.
      3.   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a Conditional Letter of
Map Revision prior to the. issuance of a floodplain development permit for
proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood elevation.
      4.   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a Letter of Map
Revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this section.
   b.   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Town Council President of the
Town of Dyer and may be submitted to FEMA at any time.
   c.   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the Town of Dyer have
been modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an
area, or no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management
regulations for a particular area. In order that the Lake County, Indiana and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map accurately represent the Town of
Dyer boundaries, include within such notification a copy of a map of the Town
of Dyer suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new corporate limits or
the new area for which the Town of Dyer has assumed or relinquished floodplain
management regulatory authority.
(Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-20 Variance Procedures.
   a.   The Town of Dyer Board of Zoning Appeals (the board) as established by
the Town Council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from
requirements of this ordinance.
   b.   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this ordinance. Any
person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the
Lake County Circuit or Superior Court.
   c.   In passing upon such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this ordinance, and:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      7.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      8.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      9.   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      10.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   d.   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   e.   Variances from the provisions of this ordinance shall only be granted
when the board can make positive findings of fact based on evidence submitted
at the hearing for the following:
      1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship as defined in Sec.
10-5.
      3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   f.   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to Sec.
10-21a,
10-21c.1.,
10-21d. of this ordinance may be granted.
   g.   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to Sec.
10-21a,
10-21c.1.,
10-21d. will require a permit from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
Variances shall not be issued within any designated regulatory floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   h.   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of Sec.
10-21 through
10-25 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   i.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an "historic
structure" and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
   j.   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvements,
and other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent
use.
   k.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   l.   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
ordinance, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances a it deems necessary to further the purposes of this ordinance.
   m.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the flood protection grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   n.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the Indiana Department of Natural Resources upon request.
(Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Division IV. Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction.
Sec. 10-21 Floodplain Status Standards.
   a.   Floodways (riverine). Located within SFHAs, established in Sec.
10-7, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely hazardous
area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris, potential
projectiles, and has erosion potential. Under the provisions of the Flood
Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1) a permit for construction in a floodway from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance of a
local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or obstruction
activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation activities
such as filling, grading, clearing and paving undertaken before the actual
start of construction of the structure. General licenses and exemptions to the
requirements of the Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1 and 312 IAC 10) may apply
to qualified additions/improvements to existing lawful residential structures,
rural bridges, logjam removals, wetland restoration, utility line crossings,
outfall projects, creek rock removal, and prospecting.
      1.   If the site is in a regulatory floodway as established in Sec.
10-7, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the
application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources and apply for approval for construction in a
floodway, provided the activity does not qualify for a general license or
exemption (I.C. 14-28-1 or 312 IAC 10).
      2.   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
approval has been granted by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources for
construction in the floodway, or evidence provided by an applicant that the
development meets specified criteria to qualify for a general license or
exemption to the requirement of the Flood Control Act. The floodplain
development permit shall meet the provisions contained in this Division.
      3.   The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than an
approval issued for construction in a floodway issued by the Indiana Department
of Natural Resources, or the specified criteria used to qualify for a general
license or exemption to the Flood Control Act for a specific site/project.
However, a community's more restrictive regulations (if any) shall take
precedence.
      4.   In floodway areas identified on the FIRM, development shall cause no
increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge
without first obtaining a Conditional Letter of Map Revision and meeting
requirements of Sec. 10-19a. A Conditional Letter of Map Revision cannot be
issued for development that would cause an increase in flood levels affecting a
structure and such development should not be permitted.
      5.   In floodway areas identified by the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources through detailed or approximate studies but not yet identified on the
effective FIRM as floodway areas, the total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not adversely affect the efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity
of the floodway. This adverse effect is defined as an increase in the elevation
of the regulatory flood of at least fifteen-hundredths (0.15) of a foot as
determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under the project
condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as proven with
hydraulic analyses.
      6.   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the Town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 CFR § 65.12.
   b.   Fringe (riverine). If the site is in the fringe (either identified on
the FIRM or identified by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources through
detailed or approximate studies and not identified on a FIRM), the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in this Division have been met.
   c.   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodways/fringes
(riverine).
      1.   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the one-percent annual chance flood elevation and the recommended Flood
Protection Grade has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper
written approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be
issued, provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
      2.   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile:
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and one-percent annual chance flood elevation for the
site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit, provided the provisions contained in this
Division have been met.
   d.   SFHAs not identified on a map.
      1.   If a proposed development site is near a waterway with no SFHA
identified on a map, the Floodplain Administrator shall verify the drainage
area upstream of the site. If the drainage area upstream of the site is
verified as being greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      2.   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the one-percent annual chance flood elevation and the recommended Flood
Protection Grade has been received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources.
      3.   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources, a floodplain development permit may be issued,
provided the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this Division have been met.
(Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-22 General Standards.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
   a.   All new construction, reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive
loss structure, and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
   b.   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with
materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG;
   c.   New construction and substantial improvements must incorporate methods
and practices that minimize flood damage;
   d.   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment,
and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG for residential
structures. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG or
designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components below the FPG for non-residential structures. Water and sewer pipes,
electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed
service facilities may be located below the FPG;
   e.   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   f.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   g.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   h.   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance shall meet the
requirements of "new construction" as contained in this ordinance;
   i.   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of fifty (50) lots or five (5)
acres;
   j.   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this ordinance
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood
elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure; or for
other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development;
   k.   Fill projects that do not involve a structure must be protected against
erosion and scour during flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading.
If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three (3) feet
horizontal to one (1) foot vertical;
   l.   Non-conversion agreements shall be required for all new or
substantially improved elevated structures with an enclosure beneath the
elevated floor, accessory structures, and open-sided shelters. Property owners
shall be required to execute and record with the structure's deed a non-
conversion agreement declaring that the area below the lowest floor (where the
interior height of the enclosure exceeds six (6) feet) shall not be improved,
finished or otherwise converted; the community will have the right to inspect
the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement shall be recorded in the office
of the Lake County Recorder;
   m.   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1.5 to 1) due to the fill or
structure. The Floodplain Administrator and the Dyer Storm Water Board have the
authority to reduce the replacement ratio to one to one if they feel a
reduction is warranted.
      1.   The excavation shall take place in the same floodplain on the same
property on which the authorized fill or structure is located, provided
sufficient space exists. If sufficient space does not exist on the same
property, the excavation shall take place in the same floodplain no further
than one thousand (1,000) from the site of the authorized fill or structure,
provided authorization/permission has been granted by the owners of any
property where the excavation is proposed.
      2.   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain provided that the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory floodwater, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by floodwater, and that it shall not be refilled.
      3.   The excavation shall provide for true storage of floodwater but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by floodwater.
      4.   The excavation shall be sufficiently stabilized and compacted to
remain firm and resist erosion.
      5.   A restrictive covenant which states the approved compensatory cut
area (excavation) shall not be altered without approval from the Floodplain
Administrator shall be executed and recorded in the County Recorder's Office
that runs with the property.
      6.   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      7.   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory floodwater.
      8.   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough to
remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement. When a structure is placed on fill it
shall follow additional requirements of Sec.
10-23b.4. and c.4.
      9.   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this Division.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-23 Specific Standards.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data or
flood depths have been provided, as set forth in Sec. 10-7, the following
provisions are required:
   a.   Building protection requirement. In addition to the general standards
described in Sec. 10-22, structures to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement
applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a residential structure;
      2.   Construction or placement of a non-residential structure;
      3.   Addition or improvement made to an existing structure where the cost
of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
value of the existing structure (excluding the value of the land). An addition
and/or improvement project that is continuous in scope or time is considered as
one project for permitting purposes;
      4.   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure (excluding the
value of the land) before damage occurred (the costs of any proposed additions
or improvements beyond restoring the damaged structure to its before damaged
condition must be included in the cost);
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      6.   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure; and
      7.   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure with a
previous repair, addition or improvement constructed since the community's
first floodplain ordinance.
   b.   Residential construction (excluding manufactured homes).
      1.   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structures shall meet provisions described in Sec.
10-21 and applicable general standards described in Sec.
10-22.
      2.   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor; including basement,
at or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate
a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of Sec.
10-23b.3. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of Sec.
10-23b.4. must be met.
      3.   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
Report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If more than one enclosed area is present, each must have openings
on exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening;
            (3)   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings;
            (4)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
            (5)   Openings are to be not less than three (3) inches in any
direction in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the
wall, excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air
vent device.
            (6)   Property owners shall be required to execute a flood
openings/vent affidavit acknowledging that all openings will be maintained as
flood vents, and that the elimination or alteration of the openings in any way
will violate the requirements of subsection a.4. above. Periodic inspections
will be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
affidavit shall be recorded in the office of the Lake County Recorder.
            (7)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record with
the structure's deed a non-conversion agreement declaring that the area below
the lowest floor (where the interior height of the enclosure exceeds six (6)
feet) shall not be improved, finished or otherwise converted; the community
will have the right to inspect the enclosed area. The non-conversion agreement
shall be recorded in the office of the Lake County Recorder.
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      4.   A residential structure may be constructed on fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one (1) foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Fill shall extend ten (10) feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three (3) feet horizontal to one (1)
foot vertical;
         (d)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties;
         (e)   Fill shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      5.   A residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation (also called chain wall,
raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-wall-with-fill) must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   c.   Non-residential construction.
      1.   New construction or substantial improvement of any non-residential
structures (excludes accessory structures) shall meet provisions described in
Sec. 10-21 and applicable general standards described in Sec.
10-22.
      2.   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction, or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial, or nonresidential structure (excludes accessory
structures) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement and,
elevated to or above the FPG or be floodproofed to or above the FPG. Should
solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings
sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be
provided in accordance with the standards of Sec.
10-23c.3.. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of Sec.
10-23c.4. must be met.
      3.   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Engineered flood
openings must be designed and certified by a registered design professional
(requires supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES
Report), or meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings:
            (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different sides of an
enclosure. If more than one enclosed area is present, each must have openings
on exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
            (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening;
            (3)   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings;
            (4)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions;
            (5)   Openings are to be not less than three (3) inches in any
direction in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the
wall, excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air
vent device.
         (b)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      4.   A nonresidential structure may be constructed on fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Shall be placed in layers no greater than one (1) foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Shall extend ten (10) feet beyond the foundation of the
structure before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding by
vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is used, the
slopes shall be no steeper than three (3) horizontal to one (1) foot vertical;
         (d)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties;
         (e)   Shall be composed of clean granular or earthen material.
      5.   A nonresidential structure may be floodproofed in accordance with
the following:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      6.   A nonresidential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   d.   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      1.   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on a
site in the SFHA:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in Sec.
10-23b.3..
         (c)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame
or foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      2.   Recreational vehicles placed on a site in the SFHA shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days and be fully licensed and
ready for use on a public highway (defined as being on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and has no permanently attached additions); or
         (b)   Meet the requirements for "manufactured homes" as stated earlier
in this section.
   e.   Accessory structures. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of an
accessory structure must meet the following standards:
      1.   Shall have a floor area of 400 square feet or less;
      2.   Use shall be limited to parking of vehicles and limited storage;
      3.   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      4.   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      5.   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      6.   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      7.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
elevated or floodproofed to or above the PPG;
      8.   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in Sec.
10-23c.3. and;
      9.   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the structure from its continued designation as an accessory
structure.
   f.   Free-standing pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar
development. Within SFHAs designated as Zones A, AE, on the community's FIRM,
new construction or placement of pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and
similar development must meet the following standards:
      1.   Shall have open sides (having not more than one rigid wall);
      2.   Shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement;
      3.   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below the FPG;
      4.   Any electrical, heating, plumbing and other service facilities shall
be located at/above the FPG;
      5.   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the development from its continued designation as a pavilion, gazebo,
carport, or similar open-sided development.
   g.   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. Within SFHAs designated as
Zones A, AE, on the community's FIRM, all newly placed aboveground gas or
liquid storage tanks shall meet the requirements for a non-residential
structure as required in Sec.
10-23c.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-24 Standards for Subdivision and Other New Developments.
   a.   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   b.   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   c.   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   d.   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
area not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and all other proposed new development (including manufactured home
parks and subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of fifty (50) lots or
five (5) acres, whichever is less.
   e.   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/or
limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   f.   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA for
pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
   g.   Streets, blocks lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-25 Standards for Critical Facilities.
   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent possible,
located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical facilities
shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site is
available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site. Floodproofing and
sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be
displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above
the FPG shall be provided to all critical facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. No. 2015-22, 11-12-15; Am. Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Division V. Legal Status Provisions.
Sec. 10-26 Severability.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of these regulations
is, for any reason, declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the regulations as a whole, or
any part thereof, other than the part so declared.
(Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
Sec. 10-27 Effective Date.
   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon adoption.
(Ord. No. 2022-32, 12-21-22)
ARTICLE 2. RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE.
ARTICLE 3. SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE.
Division I. Policy, Purpose and Authority.
Sec. 10-36 Title.
   This ordinance and the regulations contained herein shall hereafter be known
and cited as the Subdivision Control Ordinance of the Town of Dyer, Lake
County, Indiana.
(Ord. No. 94-9, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-37 Policy.
   a.   It is declared to be the policy of the Town to consider the subdivision
of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided plat as subject to the
official comprehensive plan and related policies (contained in the Dyer Zoning
Ordinance) for the orderly and efficient development of the Town.
   b.   Land to be subdivided shall be of such a character that it can be
developed without intentional or discoverable peril to health or intentional or
discoverable peril from flood, fire or other menace. Land shall not be
subdivided until access is made available to existing public facilities and
until improvements and proper provision have been made for drainage, water,
sewerage, other necessary new public improvements such as schools, parks,
recreation facilities; and transportation facilities are adequate for serving
the subdivision. Private wells and septic systems in lieu of public water and
sewer facilities shall be allowed in the Town upon securing all applicable
permits from the Board of Health only in the absence of available public water
and sewer facilities within three hundred (300) feet of the property line. This
requirement may be waived at the discretion of the Plan Commission.
   c.   Both existing and proposed public facilities serving the subdivision
shall be properly related and conform to the terms and provisions of the Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § I, A, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-38 Purposes of These Regulations.
   a.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the Town.
   b.   To guide the future development and renewal of the Town in accordance
with the Comprehensive Plan and related policies.
   c.   To provide for the safety, comfort, and soundness of the built
environment and related open spaces.
   d.   To protect the compatibility, character, economic stability and
orderliness of all development through reasonable design standards.
   e.   To guide public and private policy and action to provide adequate and
efficient public and private facilities, the most aesthetically pleasing and
beneficial interrelationship between land uses, conserve natural resources such
as natural beauty, woodlands, wetlands and open spaces both during and after
development.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § I, B, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-39 Authority and Jurisdiction.
   a.   This ordinance which was enacted pursuant to Indiana Home Rule and
planning enabling legislation (Indiana Code, titles § 36-7-4-700 series, as
amended) authorizes the Dyer Plan Commission to review and approve or
disapprove plats for subdivisions throughout the Town, which show lots, blocks,
or sites with or without new streets or highways. This authority extends to the
development or resubdivision of undeveloped portions of already recorded plats.
   b.   No construction of any kind shall be undertaken upon any vacant
unsubdivided parcel of land within the corporate boundaries of the Town of
Dyer.
   c.   This ordinance shall apply to all subdivision of land within the
corporate limits of Dyer. No plat or replat of a subdivision of land located
within the Town of Dyer shall be recorded until it shall have been reviewed and
approved by the Dyer Plan Commission. Such approvals shall be entered in
writing on the plat by the President and Executive Secretary of the Plan
Commission, who shall then affix the Plan Commission Seal thereto.
   d.   No lot, tract or parcel of land within a subdivision shall be offered
for sale nor shall a sale, contract for sale, or option be made or given until
the final plat of subdivision has been reviewed, officially approved by the
Dyer Plan Commission and recorded. No construction work on any proposed
subdivision, including grading, shall be made until the owner or owners
thereof, or his or their agent, have obtained from the Plan Commission final
written engineering approval of a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
IDEM water and wastewater permits, any and all local, state and federal permits
required according to the procedures outlined herein.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § I, C, 8-9-9; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00)
Sec. 10-40 Definitions.
   Accessory Building - A subordinate structure, such as a garage, storage
shed, or barn, the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant use of
the principal building or land
   Administrator - The officer appointed by and/or delegated the responsibility
for the administration of these regulations by the Planning Commission. This
term shall be construed to include those planning staff members working under
the direction of the Administrator in the exercise of his/her responsibilities
in regard to the processing of these Subdivision Regulations.
   Adjacent Property Owners - Those parties who are the owners of properties
adjoining or adjacent to the proposed subdivision as shown on the sketch plan.
   Alley - A public or private vehicular right-of-way primarily designed to
serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose
principal frontage is on some other street.
   Applicant - The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his agent or his
legal representative.
   Block - A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemetery, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways, or
boundary lines of municipalities.
   Block Park - A park of one (1) acre or less in size.
   Bond - Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrumental credit in an amount and form satisfactory
to the Town Council. All bonds shall be approved by the Town Council wherever a
bond is required by these regulations.
   Book of Standards - The document which accompanies the Subdivision Control
Ordinance and contains construction and design standards for all required
infrastructure improvements.
   Buffer Landscaping - Any trees, shrubs, walls, fences, berms, or related
landscaping features required under this ordinance or the Zoning Ordinance on
private lots and privately maintained buffering lots from adjacent and/or
properties or public rights of way for the purpose of increasing visual
privacy. (See Screening also.)
   Building - Any roofed structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure
of persons, animals, or movable property of any kind.
   Building Code - That Town ordinance or group of ordinances establishing and
controlling the standards for constructing buildings, utilities, mechanical
equipment and all forms of structures and permanent installations and related
matters, within the Town. Also referred to herein as the Dyer Building Code.
   Building Inspector - That official of local government authorized to issue
building permits.
   Building Permit - A certificate issued by the Building Inspector of a
governing body permitting a person, firm or corporation to erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish any
building or structure within its jurisdiction, or cause the same to be done.
   Capital Improvements Program - A proposed schedule of all future projects
listed in order of construction priority together with cost estimates and the
anticipated means of financing each project. All major projects requiring the
expenditure of public funds, over and above the annual local government's
operating expenses for the purchase, construction or replacement of the more
durable, longer lived physical assets for the community are included.
   Central Sewer System - A community sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision or
an existing sewer system.
   Central Water Systems - A community water supply system including existing
and new wells and/or surface water sources and intakes, treatment facilities,
and distribution lines and includes such of the above facilities established by
the developer to serve a new subdivision.
   Certificate - The signed and attested document which indicates that a
subdivision has been granted secondary approval by the Commission subsequent to
proper public notice of its hearing.
   Commission - The Dyer Plan Commission.
   Commission Attorney - The licensed attorney designated by the Dyer Town
Council to furnish legal assistance for the administration of this ordinance or
as provided by statute.
   Community Park - A park in excess of ten (10) acres.
   Comprehensive Plan - Inclusive physical, social and economic plans and
policies in graphic and verbal statement forms for the development of the Town,
prepared and adopted by the Commission and Town Council, pursuant to the State
Acts, and including any part of such plan and/or policies separately adopted
and any amendment to such plan and/or policies, or parts thereof.
   Condominium - The division of building(s) and the related land into
horizontal property interests meeting the requirements of and controlled by
Indiana statutes for condominiums as prescribed by Indiana Code, §§ 32-1-6-
1 through 31.
   Construction Plan(s) - The preliminary and/or final drawings accompanying a
subdivision plat and showing the specific location and design of improvements
to be installed for the subdivision in accordance with the requirements of this
ordinance as a condition of the approval of the plat.
   Cul-de-Sac - A local street with only one (1) outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement
including public safety vehicles.
   Dead-End Street - A street or a portion of a street with only one (1)
vehicular traffic outlet, and no turnaround at the terminal end.
   Developer - The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or one who is hired
by the owner to subdivide or develop the land. Consent for making applications
for development approval shall be required from the legal owner of the
premises.
   Drives, Private - Vehicular streets and driveways, paved or unpaved, which
are wholly within private property, except where they intersect with other
streets within public rights-of-way.
   Easement - An authorization grant by a property owner for the use by another
of any designed part of his property for a clearly specified purpose(s).
   Engineer (Design) - Professional engineer hired by a developer/private party
for the purposes of designing a particular project.
   Engineer (Town) - Professional engineer or engineering firm employed by the
Town of Dyer either as a Town employee or as a consulting engineer.
   Escrow - A deposit of cash with the Town Council in lieu of an amount
required and still in force on a performance or maintenance bond. Such escrow
funds shall be held by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   Final Plat - The map, drawing or plan described in this ordinance of a
subdivision and any accompanying material submitted to the Commission for
secondary approval, and which, if approved and signed by the designated
officials, may be submitted to the County Recorder for recording.
   Flood Hazard Areas - Those flood plains which have not been adequately
protected from flooding by the Regulatory Flood by means of dikes, levees, or
reservoirs, and are shown on the Floodway-Flood Boundary Maps of the Federal
Insurance Administration or maps provided to the Commission from the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
   Flood Plains - The area adjoining the river or stream which has been or may
hereafter be covered by flood water from the Regulatory Flood.
   Flood Protection Grade - The elevation of the lowest point around the
perimeter of a building at which flood waters may enter the interior of the
building.
   Floodway Fringe - Those portions of the Flood Hazard Areas lying outside the
Floodway, shown on the Floodway-Flood Boundary Maps of the Federal Insurance
Administration.
   Foundations - The supporting member of a wall or structure.
   Frontage - That side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily
regarded as the front of the lot. Corner lots will be considered to front on
both intersecting streets. (No access for any one lot is permitted to more than
one street and that street generally will be the one calculated to have lower
traffic volumes and less frequent intersections.)
   Frontage Street - Any street to be constructed by the developer or any
existing street in which development shall take place on both sides.
   Front Yard - A yard as defined herein, encompassing the horizontal space
between the nearest foundation of a building to the right-of-way line,
extending to the side lines of the lot, and measured as the shortest distance
from that foundation to the right-of-way line.
   Governing Body - The Dyer Town Council.
   Grade - The slope of a street, or other public way, specified in percentage
(%) terms.
   Health Department and Health Officer - The agency and person designated by
the County to administer the health regulations within the County's
jurisdiction.
   Indiana Code - The Burns Indiana Statute Code Edition, which codifies all
Indiana statutes for reference purposes. The latest edition with any amending
supplements must be referred to for the laws “now” in force and applicable.
(Usually abbreviated as I.C. herein.)
   Joint Ownership - Joint ownership among persons shall be construed as the
same owner, “constructive ownership” for the purpose of imposing subdivision
regulations.
   Landscaping - See Buffer Landscaping, Screening and Shade Trees.
   Lot - For purposes of this ordinance, a lot is a subdivided and recorded
parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as
are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street,
or on an approved private street, and may consist of:
   (1)   A single lot of record.
   (2)   A combination of complete lots of record, or complete lots of record
and portions of lots of record.
   Lot Frontage - The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on comer
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated under Yards in
this section.
   Lot Lines - The lines bounding lots as defined herein.
   Lot Measurement -
   1.   Depth of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between the
midpoints of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot
lines in front and the rearmost points of the side lot lines in the rear.
   2.   “Width” of a lot shall be considered to be the distance between
straight lines connecting front and rear lot lines at each side of the lot,
measured across the rear of the required front yard, provided, however, that
width between side lot lines at their foremost points (where they intersect
with the street line) shall not be less than eighty percent (80%) of the
required lot width except in the case of lots on the turning circle of a cul-
de- sac or eyebrow. Examples of said measurements may be found in Appendix “A.”
   Lot of Record - A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the Recorder of Lake County.
   Lot Types
   a.   “Corner Lot” is defined as a lot located at the intersection of two (2)
or more streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be
considered a comer lot if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the
side lot lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of
less than one hundred thirty-five degrees (135°).
   b.   “Interior lot” is defined as a lot other than a corner lot with only
one frontage on a street.
   c.   “Through lot” is defined as a lot other than a corner lot with frontage
on more than one (1) street. Through lots abutting two (2) streets may be
referred to as double frontage lots.
   d.   “Reversed Frontage lot” is defined as a lot on which the frontage is at
right angles or approximately right angles (interior angle less than one
hundred thirty-five degrees [135°]) to the general pattern in the area. A
reversed frontage lot may also be a corner lot, an interior lot, or a through
lot.
   Major Subdivisions - Any subdivision not classified as a minor subdivision,
including, but not limited to, subdivision of four (4) or more lots, or any
size subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the local
governmental facilities, to the creation of any public improvements.
   Map - A representation of a part or the whole of the earth's surface, in
signs and symbols, on a plane surface, at an established scale, with a method
of orientation indicated.
   Marker - A stake, pipe, rod, nail, or any other object which is intended to
be a permanent point for record purposes.
   Master Plan - See Comprehensive Plan.
   Minor Subdivision - Any subdivision containing not more than three (3) lots
fronting on existing street which is an improved right-of-way maintained by the
Town involving no street or the extension of municipal facilities, or the
creation of any public improvements. A minor subdivision shall not adversely
affect the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property, and shall not
conflict with any provision or portion of the Comprehensive Plan, Official Map,
Zoning Ordinance, or this ordinance.
   Model Home - A dwelling unit used initially for display purposes which
typifies the kind of units that will be constructed in the subdivision.
   Monument - A physical structure which marks the location of a corner or
other survey point.
   Neighborhood Park - A park of one (1) to ten (10) acres in size.
   Nonresidential Subdivision - A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial. Such subdivision shall comply
with the applicable provisions of these regulations.
   Off-Site - Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision's approval.
   Official Map - The zoning map established by the Town pursuant to law and
any amendments or additions thereto adopted by the Town or additions thereto
resulting from the approval of subdivision plats by the Commission and the
subsequent filing of such approved plats.
   Ordinance - Any legislative action, however denominated, of a local
government which has the force of law, including any amendments or repeal of
any ordinance.
   Owner - Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to the land sought
to be subdivided under these regulations.
   Parcel - A part or portion of land having a legal description formally set
forth in a conveyance together with the boundaries thereof, in order to make
possible its easy identification.
   Perimeter Street - Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
   Person - A person includes a corporation, partnership and an unincorporated
association of persons such as a club.
   Plan Commission - That Commission established by the Town of Dyer in
accordance with Indiana Code, § 36-7-1-2.
   Planned Unit Development - A means of land regulation which permits a
unified land development in a configuration and possibly a mix of uses not
otherwise permitted “as of right” under the Town Zoning Ordinance, but
requiring under that ordinance or a special ordinance a special review and
approval process.
   Primary Approval - An approval (or approval with conditions imposed) granted
to a subdivision by the Commission after having determined in a public hearing-
that the subdivision complies with the standards prescribed in this ordinance
(per Indiana Code, § 36-7-4-700 series: Subdivision Control).
   Primary Plat - The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Commission for approval which include full engineering
drawings.
   Principal Use Building - A building in which the principal use of the lot or
parcel is conducted. Standards recognized by the Indiana Administrative
Building Council shall be used to determine whether a given structure
constitutes one or more buildings in cases where ambiguities exist.
   Public Improvement - Any drainage ditch, street, highway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian-way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other
facility used by the general public and not intended for private use.
   Rear Yard - A yard defined herein, encompassing the horizontal spaces
between the nearest foundation of a building to a rear lot line and that rear
lot line, extending to the side lines of the lot, and measured as the shortest
distance from that foundation to the real lot line. The rear yard of a corner
lot shall be that yard at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   Registered Land Surveyor - A land surveyor properly licensed and registered
or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the State of Indiana.
   Registered Professional Engineer - An engineer properly licensed and
registered in the State of Indiana or permitted to practice in Indiana through
reciprocity.
   Regulatory Flood - That flood having a peak discharge which can be equaled
or exceeded on the average of once in one hundred (100) year period, as
calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); this flood is equivalent to a flood
having probability of occurrence of one percent (1%) in any given year.
   Regulatory Flood Elevation - The maximum elevation, as established by FEMA,
reached by the Regulatory Flood at the location in question relevant to
approval of a given subdivision under consideration.
   Regulatory Floodway - The channel of a river or stream and those portions of
the Flood Plains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to
efficiently carry and discharge the peak flow of the Regulatory Flood of any
river or stream shown on the Floodway-Flood Boundary Maps of the Federal
Insurance Administration.
   Restrictive Covenants - Regulations of various kinds on the usage of lots or
parcels of land within a subdivision which are proposed by the subdivision, and
in the case of public health, safety, and welfare by the Commissions, that are
recorded with the plat and run with the land.
   Resubdivisions - A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision
plat.
   Right-of-Way - A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied, by a
street, pedestrian-way, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or
gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, special landscaping, or
for another special use. The usage of term “right-of-way” for land platting
purposes shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on
a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining
such right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots
or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains,
sanitary sewers, storm drains, screening or special landscaping, or any other
use involving maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use
by the subdivider on whose plat such right-of-way is established.
   Sale or Lease - Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any
possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise,
intestate succession, or transfer of an interest in a subdivision or part
thereof, whether by metes and bounds, deeds, contract, plat, map, lease,
devise, intestate, succession, or other written instrument.
   Same Ownership - Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership, or unincorporated association; or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities, or unincorporated associations in
which a stockholder, partner, or associate, or member of his family owns an
interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity, or unincorporated
association.
   Screening - Either (a) a strip of at least ten (10) feet wide, densely
planted (or having equivalent natural growth) with shrubs or trees at least
four (4) feet high at the time of planting, of a type that will form a year
round dense screen at least six (6) feet high; or (b) an opaque wall or barrier
or uniformly painted fence at least six (6) feet high. Either (a) or (b) shall
be maintained in good condition at all times and may have no signs affixed to
or hung in relation to the outside thereof except as permitted or required
under the Zoning Ordinance. Where required by the Zoning Ordinance, a screen
shall be installed along or within the lines of a plot as a protection for
adjoining or nearby properties. Earth berms may be incorporated as part of such
screening measures where appropriate.
   Secondary Approval - The stage of applications for formal Plan Commission
approval of a final plat of a subdivision the construction of which has been
completed or substantially  completed which, if approved and signed by the
designated officials, may be submitted to the County Recorder for filing.
   Setback - A line parallel to and equidistant from the relevant lot line
(front, back, side) between which no buildings or structures may be erected as
prescribed in the Town Zoning Ordinance.
   Shall - Mandatory without exception.
   Side Lot Lines - Any lines separating two lots other than front or rear lot
lines.
   Sketch Plan - The initially submitted graphic representation of a proposed
subdivision, drawn to the approximate scale, whether superimposed upon a print
of a topographic survey or presented in any other suitable graphic medium or
form acceptable to the Commission. Drawing or drawings indicating the proposed
manner of layout of the subdivision meeting the conditions of the subdivision
ordinance to be submitted to the Commission for primary approval.
   Special Landscaping - Areas of tree planting, shrubs, or other landscape
feature serving a public purpose and maintained by the Town. (See also Buffer
Landscaping and Screening.)
   State Acts - Such legislative acts of the State of Indiana as they affect
these regulations.
   State Plan Coordinates System - A system of plan coordinates, based on the
Transverse Mercator Projection for the Western Zone of Indiana, established by
the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey for the State of Indiana.
   Street, Public - All major secondary and minor streets which are shown on
the subdivision plat and are to be dedicated for public use.
   Street, Approved - Any street, whether public or private, meeting standards
and specifications of the Town. Specific street classifications are defined in
Section 1 of the Design Standards for Improvements in the Town of Dyer, in the
attached appendix.
   Street Line - The right-of-way line of a street.
   Street Right-of-Way Width - The distance between property lines measured at
right angles to the center line of the street.
   Structure - Anything constructed or erected that requires location on or in
the ground or is attached to something having a location on or in the ground.
   Subdivider - Any person, or his legally designated Attorney-in-Fact by a
Power of Attorney properly executed and recorded in the Miscellaneous Records
of Lake County Indiana, who (1), having a proprietary interest in land, causes
it, directly or indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision; or who (2)
directly sells,  leases, or develops, or offers to sell, lease, or develop, or
advertise for sale, lease, or development, any interest, lot, parcel site,
unit, or plat in a subdivision; or who (3) engages directly, or through an
agent, in the business of selling, leasing, developing, or offering for sale,
lease, or development a subdivision of any interest, lot, parcel site, unit, or
plat in a subdivision; or (4) is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under
direct, or indirect common control with any of the foregoing.
   Subdivision - The division of a parcel of land into one or more lots for the
purpose of transfer of ownership or building development. If a new street is
involved, any division of a parcel of land is considered to be a subdivision.
The term “subdivision” includes resubdivision and; when appropriate to the
context, shall relate to the process of subdividing or to land being
subdivided.
   Subdivision Plat - A map indicating the subdivision or resubdivision of land
filed or intended to be filed of record with the County Recorder.
   Temporary Improvement - Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and intended to be replaced by a
permanent improvement.
   Temporary Turnaround - Turnaround improvements at the ends of stub streets
intended to be replaced when the adjoining area is developed and the through
street connection is made.
   Thoroughfare Plan - That part of the Comprehensive Plan for Dyer now or
hereafter adopted, which includes a Major Thoroughfare Plan and sets forth the
general or approximate location, alignment, dimensions, identifications and
classifications of existing and proposed highways and other thoroughfares
(including streets as defined hereinabove) located with the Town of Dyer.
   Yard - A space on the same lot with a principal building, such space being
open, unoccupied and unobstructed by buildings or structures from ground to sky
except where encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
   Zoning Ordinance - That Town ordinance setting forth the regulations
controlling the use of land in the Town of Dyer. (Ord. No. 94-9, § II, 8-9-94;
Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00)
Sec. 10-41 and Sec. 10-44 Reserved for Future Use.
Division II. Procedures.
Sec. 10-45 Initial Submission - Requirements - Staff Meeting.
   a.   Official Submission Dates. The deadline for submittal of the primary
plat application (Form #1) for review of primary plat shall be at least sixty
(60) days prior to the date of public hearing, at which the petitioner intends
to have his primary plat submission heard by the Plan Commission. Such
submittal shall include payment of all necessary and required fees in
accordance with the fee schedule found in Section
10-119.
   b.   Submission Requirements. The submission shall:
      1.   Have all its construction plans conform to the Design Standards for
Improvements in the Town of Dyer, as set forth in Appendix A to Ordinance No.
2007-25 and incorporated herein by reference.
      2.   Be made on forms available at the office of the Commission and be
submitted with the fee as set forth in the fee schedule in Section
10-119.
      3.   Include indication of all land which the petitioner proposes to
subdivide and all land immediately adjacent and across any street or railroad
right-of-way, extending three hundred (300) feet therefrom.
      4.   Be accompanied by five (5) copies of full engineering and fifteen
(15) copies of lot layout only.
   c.   Petitioner shall attend a staff meeting as scheduled by the Zoning
Administrator. Such staff meeting shall be at least ten (10) days prior to the
regularly scheduled Plan Commission Study Session at which the project is to be
discussed. Petitioner shall submit a sketch of his/her proposal (10 copies) to
the Zoning Administrator at least ten (10) days prior to the staff meeting.
(Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00; Am. Ord. 2007-25, 12-19-07)
Sec. 10-46 Plan Commission Study Session.
   Subsequent to the staff meeting, petitioner shall attend a Plan Commission
Study Session, as scheduled by the Zoning Administrator. At that study session,
the petitioner shall provide sufficient individual copies of their proposed
plan for all members of the Plan Commission, and a copy in a compatible
electronic format for viewing. The petitioner will briefly describe their plan
and receive feedback from the Commission and staff. Following attendance at the
study session, the petitioner shall become eligible to request a public hearing
on their petition, pursuant to Section
10-47.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § III, A, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00; Am. Ord.
2007-25, 12-19-07)
Sec. 10-47 Request for Public Hearing.
   At a public meeting of the Plan Commission a petitioner shall request that
the Commission set a date for a public hearing to be held on the petitioner's
proposal. At this meeting, the petitioner shall give a brief overview of their
proposal and confirm that the following items have been submitted to the Zoning
Administrator:
   a.   Sufficient copies of all required drawings and plans have been
provided, both in hard copy and compatible electronic format;
   b.   Documentation indicating proof of an ownership interest in the subject
property, such as but not limited to, a deed, purchase contract, or a power of
attorney, for review by the Commission's attorney; and
   c.   All required fees have been paid in full.
   Upon a finding that the petition is in order, per the requirements above,
the Plan Commission shall then make a motion setting a date for a public
hearing on the petitioner's plan. Further, the Commission, through the Zoning
Administrator, shall distribute all necessary copies of the plan to those
individuals or agencies identified in the Primary Plat Review Process, as found
in Section
10-48(b).
(Ord. No. 94-9, § III, C, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. 2007-25, 12-19-07)
Sec. 10-48 Primary & Secondary Approvals.
   a.   General Procedures for Primary and Secondary Approval. The petitioner
seeking approval of a subdivision shall submit the previously reviewed primary
plat to be approved, conditionally approved, or rejected by the Commission at a
public meeting, and a final subdivision plat which must be found in compliance
with the primary plat as approved by the Commission or otherwise approved in
order to be signed and recorded.
   b.   Primary Plat Review Process After a public hearing date has been set by
the Plan Commission, the Lake Central School Board, Dyer Fire Department, Dyer
Police Department, Dyer Park Department, Dyer Public Works Director, Dyer Town
Engineer, Dyer Storm Water Management Board, Dyer Sanitary Board and Dyer Water
Board shall have an opportunity to study the proposal and submit reports
thereon. The Zoning Administrator shall meet with the petitioner to discuss any
pertinent aspects of the possible modifications and/or changes that may be
suggested or required by this ordinance.
   c.   Primary Plat Procedures for Primary Approval.
      1.   Placement on the Commission Agenda. Subsequent to the submission for
primary approval, the Commission shall place the matter on its next regular
meeting agenda for formal action.
      2.   Public Hearing Notification Requirements. The Commission shall hold
a public hearing on the primary plat and notice of such hearing shall be given
to all interested parties in accordance with I.C., 36-7-4-706 and the Rules of
Practice and Procedure of the Plan Commission of the Town of Dyer, Indiana.
      3.   Primary Approval of the Primary Plan. After the Commission has held
a hearing upon the primary plat, and has reviewed the Zoning Administrator's
report, the Town Engineer's report, department head recommendations, testimony
and exhibits submitted at the public hearing, the petitioner shall be advised
of any required changes and/or additions. The Commission will review the
primary plat and determine its technical conformity with the requirements of
the subdivision control ordinance, as well as its conformity with the factors
outlined in Section
10-155(a). The Commission shall, at a public hearing, grant primary plat
approval, or disapprove the primary plat or table the matter if necessary. One
(1) copy of the primary plat shall be returned to the petitioner with the date
of approval, conditional approval, or disapproval and the reasons therefore
accompanying the plat within five (5) days of the public hearing. Primary
approval by the Commission is subject to review by certiorari.
         a.   Primary plat approval shall not be granted without engineering
approval of all required improvements.
         b.   Subdivision inspection fee shall be paid upon primary plat
approval in accordance with the fee schedule in Section
10-119.
      4.   Effective Period of Primary Approval. Unless extended, the primary
approval of a primary plat shall be effective for a period of twelve (12)
months after the date of primary approval, at the end of which time secondary
approval of the subdivision must have been obtained and certified by the
Commission. Any plats not receiving secondary approval within the period of
time set forth herein shall be null and void, and the petitioner shall be
required to resubmit a new application for primary plat review and certificate
subject to all the zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations in effect at
the time of resubmission. Secondary approval of a phase of a development
automatically extends primary approval of the entire development for an
additional twelve (12) months. Upon request of the petitioner, the Commission
may extend the primary approval of a primary plat one (1) year beyond any
expiration dare or extension thereof without further notice and public hearing.
      5.   When installation of improvements is completed, including inspection
approval by Town of Dyer personnel and Town Engineer or his/her designee the
Commission shall, after all other conditions of primary approval have been
satisfied, approve the "as built" construction plans. Upon receipt of said "as
built" construction plans together with written evidence that the required
public facilities have been installed in a manner satisfactory to the Town of
Dyer and in complete conformity with the Design Standards for Improvements in
the Town of Dyer, as set forth in Appendix A of Ordinance No. 2007-25 and
incorporated herein by reference, the Public Works Director and the Town
Engineer shall verify that the necessary improvements have been accomplished.
The "as built" drawings shall be submitted in electronic (CAD) format.
   d.   Secondary Plat Procedure (Secondary Approval).
      1.   Submission Requirements. Following primary approval or conditional
primary approval of the primary plat approval of the construction plans and
satisfactory completion of all required subdivision and off-site public
improvements as set forth therein, the petitioner shall file with the
Commission a request for secondary approval of a secondary plat. The
application (Form #2) shall:
         a.   Be submitted in writing;
         b.   Include the entire subdivision, or section thereof, which derives
access from an existing state, county, or municipal roadway;
         c.   Be accompanied by fifteen (15) copies of the final plat as
described in this ordinance;
         d.   Totally comply with this ordinance and the terms and conditions
of primary approval;
         e.   Be accompanied by any restrictive covenants where they have been
proposed by the subdivider.
      2.   Determination of Conformance (Secondary Approval). In order to be
recorded, a secondary plat shall be found to be in conformance with the primary
approval by the Commission at a public meeting. If the secondary subdivision
plat deviates from the primary plat that received primary approval, the
subdivision shall be resubmitted to the Commission at a public hearing for a
new primary approval. The petitioner shall request Commission review in writing
no less than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date of the public meeting
at which he intends to have the secondary plat reviewed. The Commission shall
place the matter on its appropriate meeting agenda. At the meeting, the
Commission shall approve or disapprove the secondary plat. If granted secondary
approval, it shall be signed by the designated officials. If not granted
secondary approval, the petitioner shall be informed as to the insufficiency of
the submittal.
      3.   Secondary approval may be granted to a plat for a subdivision in
which the improvements and installments have not been completed as required by
this ordinance if:
         a.   The petitioner provides a cash escrow, or letter of credit, that:
            (1)   Is an amount determined by the Plan Commission to be
sufficient to complete the improvements and installations in compliance with
the ordinance; and
            (2)   Provides surety satisfaction to the Plan Commission; or
         b.   With respect to the installation of extension of water, sewer, or
other utility service:
            (1)   The petitioner shows by written evidence that it has entered
into a contract with the political subdivision or utility providing the
service; and
            (2)   The Plan Commission determines based on written evidence that
the contract provides satisfactory assurance that the service will be installed
or extended in compliance with this ordinance.
      4.   Unit Development. Prior to granting secondary approval of a major
subdivision plat, the Commission may permit the plat to be divided into two (2)
or more units and may impose such conditions upon the filing of the units as it
may deem necessary to assure the orderly development of the plat. The
Commission may require that the cash escrow or letter of credit be in such
amount as will be commensurate with the unit or units of the plat to be filed
and may defer the remaining required cash escrow or letter of credit principal
amount until the remaining units of the plat are offered for filing. Such units
must contain at least twenty (20) lots or ten percent (10%) of the total number
of lots contained in the approval plat, whichever is greater.
   e.   Signing and Recording a Plat.
      1.   Signing of Plat.
         a.   When the filing of a cash escrow or letter of credit is required,
the President and Executive Secretary of the Commission shall endorse approval
on the plat by signing the certificate only after the cash escrow or letter of
credit and the construction plans have been approved, and all the conditions of
the primary and secondary approval have been satisfied, including payment of
all fees.
         b.   When installation of improvements has been completed, inspected
and approved by Town of Dyer personnel and Town Engineer or his/her designee,
the President and Executive Secretary of the Commission shall endorse the plat
after all conditions of the primary and secondary approval have been satisfied,
all improvements satisfactorily completed and accepted for public maintenance,
"as built" construction plan submitted, a two (2) year maintenance cash escrow
or letter of credit covering all improvements in the subdivision except the
final surface coat on the streets, and all engineering fees paid. The "as
built" drawings shall be submitted in electronic (CAD) format. Streets in the
subdivision shall not have a final surface coat laid upon them until authorized
by the Town but no later than one (1) year after the subdivision was completed.
The Town requires a minimum of one (1) year of use on the binder course prior
to placing of the surface course. The binder course shall not remain uncovered
for more than two (2) years. At that time, the petitioner shall provide a one
(1) year maintenance cash escrow or letter of credit covering the final surface
coat on the subdivision's streets. The amount of the maintenance cash escrow or
letter of credit shall be that amount as set forth on the fee schedule in
Section
10-119. There shall be written evidence that the required public facilities
have been installed in a manner satisfactory to the Public Works Director, Town
Engineer and that the necessary improvements have been installed, inspected and
improved by the Town of Dyer personnel and Town Engineer or his/her designee.
      2.   The division of any lot or any parcel of land into a subdivision, as
defined in this ordinance, by the use of metes and bounds description for the
purpose of sale, or transfer, or lease resulting in the creation of one (1) or
more new building sites shall not be permitted. All such described divisions
shall be subject to all of the appropriate requirements of this ordinance.
      3.   No improvement location permit or building permit required under the
Uniform Building Code, the zoning ordinance or this ordinance shall be issued
on any property subject to this ordinance until the provisions of this
ordinance have been complied with and all infrastructure improvements, other
than street lights and the final coat of asphalt, have been installed,
inspected and approved by Town of Dyer personnel and Town Engineer or his/her
designee. Additionally, a lot inspection shall be performed by public works
personnel prior to issuance of occupancy permit.
      4.   Violations and Penalties. Any person who violates a provision of
this ordinance or any regulations herein contained shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) and not more than two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) for each day's violation.
      5.   Restraining Provisions.
         a.   Any land within the participating jurisdiction subdivided in
violation of the terms of this ordinance after the effective date thereof, is
declared to be a common nuisance, which may be restrained, enjoined or abated
in any appropriate action or proceeding.
         b.   The Commission may institute an injunction suit requesting an
individual governmental unit be directed to remove a structure erected in
violation of this ordinance, or to make the same comply with its terms. If the
Commission is successful in its suit, the respondent shall bear the costs of
the action, including reasonable attorney fees.
         c.   The Commission may institute a suit for mandatory injunction
requesting an individual or governmental unit be directed, where such
individual or governmental unit has violated any provisions of this ordinance,
to comply with the provisions of this ordinance. If the Commission is
successful in its suit, the respondent shall pay the Commission's reasonable
attorney fees and all costs related to the enforcement of this ordinance.
      6.   Recording of Final Plat.
         a.   The President and Executive Secretary of the Commission shall
sign three (3) recordable plats of the subdivision on mylar or some other
material such as cloth which is not easily susceptible to damage.
         b.   It shall be the responsibility of the petitioner to file the plat
with the County Recorder and return an original, recorded mylar to the Town of
Dyer within thirty (30) days of the date of signature, together with twelve
(12) paper copies of said mylar. The mylar shall include all information as is
required in Section
10-48(6)(c) of this ordinance. Failure by the petitioner to file the plat as
herein provided and return to the Town of Dyer within thirty (30) days shall
constitute a violation of this ordinance and shall void the primary and
secondary approval previously granted. The Zoning Administrator shall have the
discretion to extend the time within which the plat must be recorded and
returned to the Town of Dyer for a period of up to an additional thirty (30)
days upon submission by the petitioner of clear and convincing evidence of
hardship.
         c.   Information Required on Mylar.
            1.   The Final Plat must include the following information:
               a.   Primary control points, approved by the Commission, or
descriptions and "ties" to such control points, to which all dimensions,
angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall be referred.
               b.   Subdivision boundary lines, right-of-way lines of streets,
easements and other rights-of-way, and property lines of residential lots and
other sites, with accurate dimensions deflection angles or bearings, and radii,
arcs, and central angles of all curves.
               c.   Name and right-of-way width of each street or other right-
of-way.
               d.   Location, dimensions and purpose of any easements.
               e.   Lot and street numbers to identify each lot or site.
Numbers shall conform to established town numbering system and as stated on
primary plat.
               f.   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are
dedicated or reserved.
               g.   Minimum building setback lines on all lots and other sites.
               h.   Location and description of monuments.
               i.   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining
platted land by record name, date and number.
               j.   Certification and seal by Registered Land Surveyor or
Registered Professional Engineer certifying to accuracy of survey and plat.
               k.   Certification of ownership of land covered by the plat,
showing that applicant is the land owner.
               l.   Statement by owner dedicating streets, rights-of-way and
any sites for public uses.
               m.   Title, scale, north arrow and date.
               n.   A certificate for execution by the Commission.
               o.   An acknowledgment certificate signed by a Notary Public.
               p.   Such protective covenant as subdivider deems necessary in
form for recording.
               q.   Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements, or
dedications as may be required by the Commission in the enforcement of this
ordinance.
               r.   All engineering specifications, plans and documents
required hereunder are considered to be a part of the final plat data
necessary.
               s.   Vicinity map.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § III, D, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00; Am. Ord. No.
2003-24, 10-21-03; Am. Ord. 2007-25, 12-19-07)
Sec. 10-49 through Sec. 10-54 Reserved for Future Use.
Division III. Procedure for Subdivision Control.
Sec. 10-55 General Improvements.
   a.   Conformance to Applicable Rules and Regulations. In addition to the
requirements established herein, all subdivision plats shall comply with the
following laws, rules and regulations:
      1.   all applicable state and local statutory provisions;
      2.   the Dyer Zoning Ordinance, Building Codes and all other applicable
laws and ordinances of the Town of Dyer;
      3.   the Comprehensive Plan, Official Map or Thoroughfare Plan and Public
Utilities Plan including all streets, drainage systems, and parks shown on the
Official Map or Comprehensive Plan as adopted;
      4.   the rules and regulations of the Indiana Department of Highways if
the subdivision or any lot contained therein abut a state highway or state
frontage road;
      5.   the highways and drainage standards and regulations adopted by the
Town Engineer and all applicable boards, commissions, agencies, and officials
of the Town, County, State and Federal Government;
      6.   Storm Drainage Control Ordinance;
      7.   Design standards of the Town of Dyer set forth in Appendix A.
   b.   Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in conformity
with the above guides and requirements or with the policies and purposes of
these regulations established.
   c.   Self-Imposed Restrictions. If the owner places restrictions on any of
the land contained in the subdivision greater than those required by the Zoning
Ordinance or these regulations, such restrictive covenants shall be recorded on
the final plat.
   d.   Character of the Land. Land which the Commission finds to be unsuitable
for subdivision or development because of flooding, wetlands classification,
improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth formations or
topography, utility easements, or other features which might reasonably be
harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of the present or future
inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding area, shall not be
subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are formulated by the developer
and approved by the Commission, upon recommendation of the Town Engineer, to
solve the problem created by the unsuitable land conditions. Such land shall be
set aside for such uses permitted by the Zoning Ordinance as shall not involve
any such danger.
   e.   Subdivision Name. The proposed name of the subdivision shall not
duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other
subdivision in the area covered by these regulations. The Commission shall have
final authority to designate the name of the subdivision which shall be
determined at the time of primary approval.
   f.   The Town shall not be responsible for policing covenants and
restrictions imposed upon a subdivision by the owners of the real estate
composing the subdivision. (Ord. No. 94-9, § IV, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000- 41,
12-19-00)
Sec. 10-56 through Sec. 10-59 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IV. Streets.
Sec. 10-60 General Requirements for Streets.
   Frontage on Improved Streets. No subdivision shall be approved unless the
area to be subdivided shall have frontage on an existing street. Such street or
highway must be suitably improved as required by the highway rules,
regulations, or orders or be secured by a letter of credit as required under
these regulations, with the width and right-of-way required by these
regulations or as indicated on the official Map or Thoroughfare Plan. Whenever
the area to be subdivided is to use an existing street frontage, such street
shall be suitably improved as provided hereinabove. Reasonable access to the
subdivision shall be afforded. (Ord. No. 94-9, § V, A, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-61 Grading and Improvement Plan.
   Streets and lots shall be graded and improved and conform to the standards
and specifications of the Town of Dyer and shall be approved as to design and
specification by the Town Engineer, in accordance with the construction plans
required to be submitted for primary approval. (Ord. No. 94-9, § V, B, 8-9-94;
Am. Ord. 2000-41, 12-19-00)
Sec. 10-62 Topography and Arrangement.
   a.   Streets shall be related appropriately to the topography. Grades of
streets shall conform as closely as possible to the original topography. A
combination of steep grades and sharp curves shall be avoided. Specific
standards are set forth in Appendix A.
   b.   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and proposed
system of thoroughfares and dedicated right-of-way as established on the
Official Map or Thoroughfare Plan.
   c.   Minor or local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible
to the topography to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient
drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of streets
necessary to provide convenient and safe access to the property.
   d.   Proposed streets shall, where appropriate, be extended to the boundary
lines of the tract to be subdivided unless this is prevented by topography or
other physical conditions, or unless in the opinion of the Plan Commission such
extension(s) is/are not necessary or desirable for the layout of the
subdivision undo consideration with the existing street layout or for the most
advantageous future development of adjacent tracts.
   e.   In business and industrial developments, the streets and other
accessways shall be planned in connection with the grouping of buildings,
location of rail facilities, truck loading and maneuvering areas, walkways,
bikeways, and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of movement between the
various types of vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   f.   Alleys shall be discouraged in residential areas, except where
topographical or other conditions necessitate their use.
   g.    Street design shall conform to the Design Standards for Improvements
in the Town of Dyer, as contained in Appendix A. (Ord. No. 94-9, § V, C, 8-9-
94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00)
Sec. 10-63 Blocks.
   a.   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of lots
of appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block widths shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to arterial streets, railroads, and waterways.
   b.   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be such as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated.
   c.   Blocks designed for industrial uses shall be of such length and width
as may be determined to be suitable by the Commission for the extended use.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § V, D, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12- 19-00)
Sec. 10-64 Access to Collector Streets.
   Where possible, lots in single family residential subdivisions fronting on
collector streets shall be avoided and lots at the corners of intersections
between local and collector streets shall front on the local street and have
driveway access to it only and not to the collector street. In multiple family
residential area, entrances to group parking lots shall have access only to
collector streets (where possible) and such entrances shall be widely spaced.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § V, E, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-65 Access to Primary Arterials.
   Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing proposed primary
arterial, the Commission may require that access to it be limited by one of the
following means:
   a.   the subdivision of the lots so as to back onto the primary arterial and
front onto a parallel local street; no access shall be provided from the
primary arterial and screening shall be provided within a strip of land along
the property line of such lots;
   b.   a series of cul-de-sacs, entered from, and designed generally to be at
right angles to an access street that is at some distance from and parallel to
the arterial street, with the rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto
the arterial; and,
   c.   a marginal access or service road (separate from the primary arterial
by a landscaped and/or decoratively fenced grass strip and having access
thereto at widely spaced suitable points). (Ord. No. 94-9, § V, F, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-66 Street Regulatory Signs.
   The applicant shall provide and install a street sign at every street
intersection within his/her subdivision as required by the Town Engineer. The
Town shall inspect and approve all street signs before issuance of building
permits for any residence on the approved streets. (Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-
19-00)
Sec. 10-67 Street Lights.
   Installation of street lights shall be required in accordance with the
Design Standards of the Town of Dyer as set forth in Appendix A. The Developer
shall also be responsible for all costs of operating and maintaining street
lights for a period of two (2) years after installation. Operation and
maintenance costs for street light(s) shall be collected in advance at the time
of secondary approval based upon current costs, with any difference due to an
increase in costs or extraordinary maintenance expenditures to be collected at
the conclusion of the two year period after installation. Street lights shall
be operational prior to occupancy permits being issued. (Ord. No. 94-9, § V, H,
8-9-94; Am. Ord. 2000-41, 12-19-00)
Sec. 10-68 Construction of Streets.
   a.   Construction of Streets Other than Cul-de-Sacs. The arrangement of
streets shall provide for the continuation of streets between adjacent
subdivisions or other properties when such continuation is necessary for the
convenient movement of traffic, for effective fire protection, for efficient
provision of utilities, and where such continuation is in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan. If the adjacent property is undeveloped and the street must
be a dead-end (stub) street temporarily, the right-of-way shall be provided for
all such temporary dead-end streets. Temporary turnarounds must be provided at
the ends of such stub streets. The Commission may limit the length of temporary
dead-end streets in accordance with the design standards in these regulations.
   b.   Cul-de-Sacs (Permanent Dead-End Streets). Where a street does not
extend beyond the boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not
required by the Commission for access to adjoining property, its terminus shall
normally not be nearer to such boundary than sixty (60) feet. However, the
Commission may require the reservations of an appropriate easement to
accommodate drainage facilities, pedestrian traffic, or utilities. A cul-de-sac
turnaround shall be provided at the end of a permanent dead-end street in
accordance with Town construction standards and specifications. For greater
convenience to traffic and more effective police and fire protection, permanent
dead-end streets shall be limited to length in accordance with the design
standards in these regulations (Ord. No. 94-9, § V, I, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No.
2000-41, 12-19-00)
Sec. 10-69 Design Standards.
   a.   General. In order to provide for streets of suitable location, width,
and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory
access for police, fire-fighting, snow removal, sanitation and street
maintenance equipment, and to coordinate street location in order to achieve a
convenient system and avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the
following design standards for streets are required.
   b.   Street Surfacing and Improvements. After sewer and water utilities have
been installed by the developer, the applicant shall construct curbs and
gutters and shall surface or cause the roadways to be surfaced to the widths
prescribed in these regulations. Said surfacing shall be of such character as
is suitable for the expected traffic and in harmony with similar improvements
in the surrounding areas. Types of pavement shall be as determined by the
Design Standards. Adequate provisions shall be made for culverts, drains and
bridges. All street pavement, shoulders, drainage improvements and structures,
curbs, turn-arounds, and sidewalks shall conform to all construction standards
and specifications adopted by the Design Standards and shall be incorporated
into the construction plans required to be submitted by the developer for plat
approval.
   c.   Excess Right-of-Way. Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards
designed in these regulations shall be required whenever, due to topography,
additional width necessary to provide for adequate and stable earth slopes.
Such slopes shall not be in excess of three to one.
   d.   Railroads and Limited Access Highways. Railroad right-of-way and
limited access highways where so located as to affect the subdivisions of
adjoining lands shall be treated as follows:
      1.   In residential districts a buffer strip at least twenty-five (25)
feet in depth in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the
district shall be provided adjacent to any limited access highway. This strip
shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated on the plat: This
strip is reserved for screening. The placement of structures hereon other than
earth berms, walls, fences and other landscape screening devices approved by
the Commission is prohibited.
      2.   In districts zoned for business, commercial or industrial uses, the
nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to a railroad
shall, wherever practical, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure a
suitable depth for commercial or industrial sites.
      3.   Streets parallel to a railroad when intersecting for a street which
crosses the railroad at grade shall to the extent practicable, be at a distance
of at least one hundred fifty (150) feet from the railroad right-of- way. Such
distance shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance
required for future separation of grades by means of appropriate approach
gradients. (Ord. No. 94-9, § V, J, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-70 Intersections.
   a.   Shall be designed in accordance with the Book of Standards.
   b.   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles. Not more than two (2) streets shall intersect at any one point
unless specifically approved by the Commission.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § V, 1C, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00)
Sec. 10-71 Street Dedications and Reservations.
   a.   New Perimeter Streets. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid
out so as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half-streets. Where an existing
half-street is adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the street
shall be improved and dedicated by the subdivider. The Commission may authorize
a new perimeter street where the subdivider improves and dedicates the entire
required right-of-way width within his own subdivision's boundaries.
   b.   Widening and Realignment of Existing Streets. Where a subdivision
borders an existing narrow street or when the Comprehensive Plan, Official Map,
Thoroughfare Plan, or zoning set back regulations indicate plans for
realignment or widening of a street that would require use of some of the land
in the subdivision, the applicant shall be required to improve and dedicate
such streets at his own expense. Such frontage streets and other streets on
which subdivision lots form shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant at
his own expense to the full width required by those subdivision regulations.
Land reserved for any street purposes may not be counted toward satisfying the
yard or area requirements of the Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. No. 94-9, § V, L, 8-9-
94)
Sec. 10-72 Lot Improvements.
   a.   Lot Arrangement. The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be
no foreseeable difficulties for reasons of topography or other conditions in
securing building permits to build on each of the created lots in compliance
with the Zoning Ordinance and Health Regulations and in providing driveway
access to buildings on such lots from the appropriate approved street.
   b.   Lot Dimension. Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards
in the Zoning Ordinance. Where lots are more than double the minimum required
area for the zoning district, the Commission may require that such lots be
arranged so as to allow further subdivision and the opening of future streets
where they would be necessary to serve all such potential lots in compliance
with the Zoning Ordinance and these regulations. In general, side lot lines
shall be at right angles to the street lines (or radial to curving street
lines) unless a variation from this rule will give a better street or lot plan.
Corner lots shall observe the minimum front yard setback from both streets.
Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for business, commercial, or
industrial purposes shall he adequate to provide for all of the off-street
parking and loading facilities required for the type of use and development
contemplated, as established in the Zoning Ordinance.
   c.   Double Frontage Lots and Access to Lots.
      1.   Double Frontage logs. Double frontage and reversed frontage lots
shall be avoided except where necessary to provide for the separation of
residential development from the traffic bordering arterials or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography and orientation affecting the subdivided
lots.
      2.   Access from Primary and Secondary Arterials. Lots shall not, in
general, derive access from a primary or secondary arterial street. Where
driveway access from a primary or secondary arterial street may be the only
possible access for several adjoining lots, the Commission may require that
such lots be served by a combined access drive in order to limit possible
traffic hazards from multiple access to such streets. Where possible, driveways
should be designed and arranged so as to avoid requiring vehicles to back into
traffic on primary or secondary arterials.
   d.   Soil Preservation, Grading and Seeding.
      1.   Soil Preservation and Final Grading. No certificates of occupancy
shall be issued until final grading has been completed in accordance with the
approved engineering plans.
      2.   Lot Drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive
drainage away from all buildings and individual lot drainage shall be
coordinated with the general storm water drainage pattern for the area.
Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid the accumulation of storm water on
any one or more lots from adjacent lots. It shall be the responsibility of the
lot owner to maintain the lot grade, as it applies to drainage, as provided for
in the approved engineering plans.
      3.   Lawn Grass Seed and Sod. Erosion control shall be in accordance with
the Soil and Conservation Service Rule 5. Lot owner is responsible for
compliance with Rule 5. Final landscaping to be completed within nine (9)
months of date of occupancy or issuance of occupancy permit whichever is first.
   e.   Debris and Waste. No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones,
junk rubbish, or other waste material of any kind shall be buried in any land,
or left or deposited on any lot or street at the time of occupancy within a
subdivision, nor shall any be left or deposited in any area of the subdivision
at the time of expiration of the performance bond of public improvements.
   f.   Fencing. Each subdivider and/or developer shall be required to furnish
and install fences wherever the Commission determines that a hazardous
condition may exist. The fences shall be constructed to the height and material
as noted on the final plat. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until
said fence improvements have been duly installed.
   g.   Waterbodies and Watercourses. If a tract being subdivided contains a
water body, or portion thereof, lot lines shall be so drawn as to distribute
the entire ownership of the water body among the fees of adjacent lots. The
Commission may approve an alternative allocation of interests whereby the
ownership of and responsibility for safe maintenance of the water body is so
placed that it will not become a local government responsibility. No part of
the minimum area of a lot required under the Zoning Ordinance may be satisfied
by land which is under water. Where a watercourse separates the buildable area
of a lot from the street from which it has access, provisions shall be made for
installation of a culvert or other structure, of a design approved by the Town
Engineer. (Ord. No. 94-9, § V, M, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00)
Sec. 10-73 Drainage and Storm Sewers.
   a.   General Requirements. The Commission shall not recommend for approval
any subdivision plat which does not make adequate provision for storm or flood
water runoff channels or basins as per the Book of Standards..
   b.   Nature of Storm Water Facilities.
      1.   Location. The applicant may be required by the Commission to carry
away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist, either
previously to, or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage facilities
shall be located in the street right-of-way where feasible, or in perpetual,
unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed in
accordance with the Town's construction standards and specifications.
      2.   Accessibility to Public Storm Sewers. Where public storm sewer/s is/
are accessible, the applicant shall install storm sewer facilities, or if no
other outlets are within a reasonable distance, adequate provision shall be
made for the disposal of storm water, subject to the specifications of the Town
Engineer. However, in subdivisions containing lots of less than fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet in area and in business and industrial districts,
underground storm sewer systems shall be constructed throughout the subdivision
and be conducted to an approved outfall. Inspection of facilities shall be
conducted by the Town Engineer.
      3.   Accommodation of Upstream Drainage Areas. A culvert or other
drainage facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The Town Engineer shall approve the necessary size of the facility
as determined by Design Engineer, based on the provisions of the required
construction standards and specifications assuming conditions of maximum
potential watershed development permitted by the Zoning Ordinance.
      4.   Effect on Downstream Drainage Area. The Design Engineer shall
determine the effect of each proposed subdivision with approval of Town
Engineer on the existing drainage facilities outside the area of the
subdivision. Town drainage studies together with such other studies as may be
available and appropriate, shall serve as a guide to needed improvements. The
subdivision, when completely developed, shall not discharge water at a faster
rate than it did in its natural state. All excess runoff to the extent of the
amount of water anticipated in a one hundred (100) year flood event, shall be
withheld in a retention or detention basin and discharged at a rate not greater
than that of the three (3) year flood event. Where it is anticipated that the
additional runoff incident to the development of the subdivision will overload
an existing downstream drainage facility, the Commission may withhold primary
approval of the subdivision until provisions (such as a storage facility) has
been made for the improvement of said potential condition in such sum as the
Commission shall determine. No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate
drainage from it will be provided to an adequate drainage water course or
facility.
      5.   Areas of Poor Drainage. Areas which are not in the Flood Plain but
contain soils which are subject to flooding may be approved for subdivisions by
the Commission, provided that the subdivider fills the affected area of said
subdivision to an elevation sufficient to place building sites and streets two
(2) feet above ponding levels.
      6.   Floodway Areas. If a subdivision of land is proposed within the
flood plain floodways shall be preserved and not diminished in capacity by
filling or obstruction, except as approved by the Natural Resources Commission
in writing. No residential building site may be located within the floodway, in
accordance with Section
10-18 of the Town Code.
      7.   Floodway Fringe Areas. Where a subdivision is proposed within an
area of the flood plain designated as a floodway fringe, the Commission may
approve such subdivision, provided that 1) all streets are elevated
sufficiently to be above the regulatory flood elevation: 2) all lots for
residential usage have a flood protection grade two (2) feet above the
regulatory flood elevation; 3) where provided, water and sanitary sewer
facilities are constructed to eliminate contamination of or by flood water;
[and] 4) approval to fill the area from the Department of Natural Resources has
been obtained in writing. Land below the regulatory flood elevation shall not
be used for computing the area requirement for any lot, in accordance with
Section
10-18 of the Town Code.
      8.   Flood Plain Areas. Where a subdivision is proposed within an area of
the flood plain for which floodway and floodway fringe designations have not
been made, the Commission shall not approve such a subdivision unless all
streets are raised sufficiently to be above the regulatory flood elevation; all
lots for residential usage have a flood protection grade of two (2) feet above
the regulatory flood elevation; where provided, public water and sanitary sewer
facilities are constructed to eliminate contamination of or by flood water; and
filling to achieve the above will not raise the level of the regulatory flood
elevation more than one- tenth (1/10) of one (1) foot for that reach of the
stream. All filling in the flood plain must be approved in writing by the
Department of Natural Resources. Lands below the regulatory flood elevation
shall not be used for computing the area requirement for any lot, in accordance
with Section
10-18 of the Town Code.
      9.   Recording of Plats in the Flood Plain and Floodway Fringe. All final
plats having within their boundaries areas whose elevation is below that of the
regulatory flood elevation shall show and label the regulatory flood boundary
and elevation, as of the date the final plat is drawn, on the final plat for
recording, in accordance with Section
10-18 of the Town Code.
   c.   Dedication of Drainage Easements.
      1.   General Requirements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a drainage
course, drainage way, channel, or stream, a storm water easement conforming
substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and of such width and
construction or both as will be adequate for the purpose of both drainage and
maintenance of the right-of-way shall be dedicated to the Town of Dyer or
appropriate entity thereof. Wherever possible, it is desirable that the
drainage be maintained by an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate
width for maximum potential volume of flow.
      2.   Drainage Easements.
         a.   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights-of-way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least fifteen (15) feet in width for such
drainage facilities shall be provided across property outside the right-of-way
lines and with satisfactory access to the street. Easements shall be indicated
on the plat. Drainage easements shall be carried from the street to a natural
watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
         b.   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation easement land on both sides of existing watercourses of a width to
be determined by the Commission and, in the case of legal drains, the County
Drainage Board.
         c.   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be secured and
indicated on the plat.
         d.   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as drainage
ways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be included in
the computations for determining the number of lots allowable under the average
density procedures nor for computing the area requirement for individual lot.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § V, N, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00)
Sec. 10-74 Extension of Municipal Services.
   a.   General Requirements.
      1.   Utility and street improvement shall be provided in each new
subdivision in accordance with the following requirements:
         a.   Gas, water, storm sewers, phone, cable and electric utilities
service shall be made available for all lots.
         b.   Streets and alleys shall be improved with the kind of paving and
of such width as shall meet the Town's standard requirements.
         c.   Sanitary sewers or septic systems shall be provided for all lots
of such size and grades in materials as are required by law, and they shall be
subject to the approval of the Town Engineer.
   b.   Location of Water Mains. Unless no other reasonable engineering
alternative exists, water mains may not be located in side or rear yard
easements.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § VI, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00; Am. Ord. No.
2003-22, 10-21-03)
Sec. 10-75 Replacement of Special Driveway Aprons.
   Property owners that have special aprons that are upgraded from the Town’s
standards shall have the following options:
   a.   Consent to the Town removing the existing upgraded apron and replacing
it with a concrete apron. The contractor will remove the existing materials
without regard to salvage value. The apron will be replaced with concrete per
the Town’s standards. This will be completed at no cost to the property owner.
   b.   Property owners can agree to install an upgraded apron at their own
expense. The Town will remove the existing apron and reimburse the owner for an
amount equal to the contract unit price for the installation of a concrete
apron. In the event there is a heating system in the apron, the property owner
shall be responsible for the shut off of all power to the heating system prior
to removal of the apron by the Town.
(Res. 2017-20, 9-14-17)
Sec. 10-76 through 10-77 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VI. Mandatory Park Dedication.
Sec. 10-78 Conditions for Primary Subdivision Approval.
   As a condition of primary approval of a subdivision, for residential zoned
real estate or real estate that is developed and or zoned for mixed uses which
include residential uses, each subdivider or developer will be required to
dedicate land for park and recreational purposes to serve the immediate and
future needs of the residents of the development, in accordance with the
standards, criteria and formula set forth in this section. Such dedication of
park land may be accomplished by dedicating or donating land that is outside of
the proposed development so long as such dedication or donation meets the
standards and criteria outlined in Section
10-79(e) below. (Ord. No. 94-9, § VII, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 99-02, 1-19-99; Am.
Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00; Am. Ord. No. 2006-19, 10-18-06)
Sec. 10-79 Criteria for Requiring Park and Recreation Land Dedication.
   a.   Requirement and Population Ration: The ultimate density of a proposed
development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required for
dedication. The total requirement shall be determined by multiplying the
ultimate population by .020, the product of which shall be the total park
acreage required. The determination of "ultimate population" shall be
determined as follows:
   Table of Estimated Ultimate Population per Dwelling Unit
 
Housing Occupancy Average 2.83 persons
 
   This information was taken from Table DP-1 Profile of General Demographic
Characteristics: 2000 in the 2000 Census for the Town of Dyer. There were 4,805
occupied housing units in Dyer with 91.5% being owner occupied for a total
population in such unit of 12,658 people. There were 8.5% renter occupied units
for a total population in such units of 918 people. The grand total population
was 13,576. That number divided by the occupied housing units (4,805) = 2.82539
persons per dwelling unit. The average number of persons living in an owner
occupied housing unit was 2.88 and the average number of persons living in a
renter occupied housing unit was 2.24 according to the 2000 Census for the Town
of Dyer.
   Except as provided, however, that if the product derived by multiplying the
ultimate population of the entire proposed development by .020 does not exceed
three quarters (3/4) of an acre, no park land dedication shall be required in
the subdivision
   b.   Location: The Dyer Park Board may recommend, approve, or disapprove the
location of any proposed site. A central location, which will serve equally the
entire community, is most desirable. In large developments, sites should be
located throughout the development according to established standards for park
area distances.
The final determination concerning the acceptability of land for park use and
type shall be made by the Plan Commission at the rime of primary plat approval.
   c.   Credit for Private Open Spaces and Recreation Areas: When subdividers
or developers provide their own open space for recreation areas and facilities,
it has the effect of reducing the demand for local public recreational
services. Depending on the size of the development, a portion of the park and
recreation area in subdivisions or planned unit developments may, at the option
of the Plan Commission, be provided in the form of "private" open spaces in
lieu of dedicated "public open space", The application of the subdivider shall
be referred to the Park Board for review, report and recommendation, which
review shall consider the needs of the projected residents of the development.
After receipt of the report of the Park Board, and a finding that the
application will serve the needs of the projected residents and meets the
standards set forth hereafter, the Plan Commission shall approve the
application at the time of primary approval.
      In general, a substitution of private open space for dedicated parks will
imply a substantially higher degree of improvement and the installation of
recreational facilities, including equipment by the developer as part of his
obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including specifications of
facilities to be installed, must be approved by the Plan Commission and before
any credit is given for private recreation areas, the subdivider or developer
must guarantee that these private recreation areas will be permanently
maintained for such use by the execution of the appropriate legal documents,
including covenants. When an adjustment for private recreation areas is
warranted, it will be necessary to compute the total park land dedication that
would have been required from the subdivision or planned unit development and
then subject the credit to be given.
   d.   Standards for Private Recreation Improvements: If the Plan Commission,
after report and recommendation from the Park Board, finds that it is in the
public interest to accept certain private recreation improvements, the
following standards should be met:
      1.   yards, court areas, setbacks, and other open areas required to be
maintained by the zoning and building ordinances and regulations shall not be
included in the computation of such private open space;
      2.   private ownership and maintenance of the open space is adequately
provided for by recorded written agreement, conveyance, or restrictions;
      3.   use of the private open space is restricted for park and
recreational purposes by recorded covenant, which runs with the land in favor
of the future owners of property and which cannot be defeated or eliminated
without the consent of the Plan Commission;
      4.   the proposed private open space is reasonably adaptable for use for
park and recreational purposes, taking into consideration such factors as size,
shape, topography, geology access, and location;
      5.   the facilities proposed for the open space are adequate to serve the
purpose of the open space.
   e.   Credit for Donation of Land Outside Proposed Development: The
requirement outlined in Section
10-78 may be satisfied by dedication or donation of land, of the size required
under (a) of this section, outside the proposed development for park and
recreational purposes. The application of the subdivider shall be referred to
the Park Board for review, report and recommendation. Such review, report and
recommendation by the Park Board shall be made in consideration of the
following factors:
      1.   The proposed land to be donated must be adjacent to an existing park
within the Town of Dyer.
      2.   The proposed dedication and donation of land outside the development
is compatible with current and name uses and growth of existing park and
recreation facilities, as envisioned by The Town of Dyer's Comprehensive Plan
and the Master Plan of the Dyer Park Board.
After receipt of the report of the Park Board, and a finding that the
application meets the standards set forth in this section, the Plan Commission
shall act on the application at the time of primary plat approval.
(Ord. No. 94-9, § VII, A, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 99-02, 1-19-99; Am. Ord. No.
2000-41, 12-19-00; Am. Ord. No. 2006-19, 10-18-06)
Sec. 10-80 Reservation of Additional Land.
   Where the recommendation of the Park Board and determination of the Plan
Commission call for a larger amount of park and recreational land in a
particular proposed subdivision or planned unit development than the developer
is required to dedicate, then the land needed beyond the developer's
contribution shall, if so determined by the Plan Commission, be reserved for
subsequent purchase by the Town or other public body designated by the Town
provided that the acquisition is made within three (3) years from the date of
approval of the final plat. (Ord. No. 94-9, § VII, B, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No.
2006-19, 10-18-06)
Sec. 10-81 Improved Sites.
   All park sites shall be dedicated in a condition that includes being
provided with a sanitary sewer tap, a water tap, final grading, seeding or
sodding, as well as being provided direct access to electric, telephone, and
cable television. Additionally, parks shall have sidewalks installed along all
street frontages and streets (including enclosed drainage and curb and gutter)
as applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable provision made
therefor. (Ord. No. 94-9, § VII, C, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00; Am.
Ord. No. 2006-19, 10-18-06)
Sec. 10-82 Procedure.
   At the time of primary approval of the subdivision, the Park Board may
recommend land to be dedicated. The recommendation by the Park Board shall
include the following:
   a.   the amount of land required;
   b.   that a stated amount of credit be given for private recreation
facilities or unique natural and special features;
   c.   the location of the park land to be dedicated;
   d.   the approximate time when development of the park or recreation
facility shall commence.
   This recommendation shall be forwarded to the Plan Commission for final
determination. In making its final determination, the Plan Commission shall be
guided by the standards contained in this ordinance. After making its final
determination, the Plan Commission shall give notice to the subdivider, the
Town Council, and any other interested party.
   Prior to the time of the signing of the final plat of subdivision, the
subdivider shall dedicate the land as previously determined by the Plan
Commission.
   Open space covenants for private park or recreational facilities shall be
submitted to the Plan Commission prior to primary approval and shall be
recorded contemporaneously with the final plat of subdivision. (Ord. No. 94-9,
§ VII, D, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 99-02, 1-19-99; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00;
Am. Ord. No. 2006-19, 10-18-06)
Sec. 10-83 Applicable only to Residential Zoned Subdivision.
   The provisions of this section shall apply to all subdivisions zoned
residential and shall not apply to Business, Shopping Center, Industrial or
Planned Unit Development Commercial zoned subdivisions. (Ord. No. 94-9, § VII,
E, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2006-19, 10-18-06)
Sec. 10-84 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VII. Construction Procedures.
Sec. 10-85 Liability Insurance.
   The developer or developer's contractor shall purchase and maintain such
liability and other insurance as appropriate for the work being performed and
furnished and as will provide protection from claims set forth below which may
provide protection from claims set forth below which may arise out of or result
from the performance and furnishing of the work by anyone directly or
indirectly employed by the developer and the developer's contractor and
developer's other obligations under this Subdivision Control Ordinance whether
it is to be performed or furnished by contractor, by any subcontractor, or
supplier, by anyone directly or indirectly employed by any of them to perform
or furnish any of the work or by anyone for whose acts any of them may be
liable:
   a.   Workers' Compensation. Workers' Compensation in accordance with the
laws of the State of Indiana and employers' liability in an amount not less
than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
   b. General Liability.
      1.   Bodily Injury Liability and Property Damage Liability in an amount
not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each occurrence and in the
aggregate.
      2.   Above to include Premises Operations, Blanket Contractual Liability,
Products, Completed Operations, Independent Contractors, Broad Form Property
Damage, Personal Injury (employees' exclusion deleted) and “X”, “C” and “U”
exclusions deleted.
   c.   Automobile Liability.
      1.   Bodily Injury Liability in an amount not less than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for each person in one accident, and one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) for injuries sustained by two or more persons in any
one accident.
      2.   Property Damage Liability in an amount not less than two hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) each accident.
      3.   Coverage shall include hired and non-owned automobile.
   d.   Excess (Umbrella) Liability.
      Coverage in an amount not less than three million dollars ($3,000,000.00)
shall include, but not be limited to, excess coverage for the Workers'
Compensation, Comprehensive General Liability, and Comprehensive Automobile
Liability policies. The policies of insurance so required to be purchased and
maintained shall:
      1.   include as additional insured the Town of Dyer and Town Engineer and
all of whom shall be listed by name as additional insureds, and include
coverage for the respective officers and employees, all of such additional
insured;
      2.   remain in effect at least until final acceptance and at all times
thereafter when contractor may be correcting, removing or replacing defective
work.
      The developer's contractor shall not commence work until he has filed
with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a certificate of insurance showing complete
coverage of all insurance required, signed by the insurance companies or their
authorized agents. Each certificate shall provide that coverage shall not be
terminated or reduced without thirty (30) days advance written notice to the
Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      All bonds and insurance required by the contract documents to be
purchased and maintained by developer or developer's contractor shall be
obtained from surety or insurance companies that are fully licensed or
authorized in the jurisdiction in which the project is located to issue bonds
or insurance policies for the limit and coverages so required.
      In addition to delivering certificates of insurance, developer or
developer's contractor shall also deliver to the Town, with copies to each
additional insured, copies of all endorsements to the insurance policies which
developer is required to purchase and maintain within ninety (90) calendar days
after the date of the Pre- Construction Conference. (Ord. No. 94-9, § VIII, A,
8-9-94)
Sec. 10-86 Pre-Construction Conference.
   At least seven (7) calendar days prior to initiation of construction, a Pre-
Construction Meeting is required of the developer, with the following items
being discussed:
   a.   Proposed start of construction date.
   b.   Responsibilities of all parties involved.
   c.   Names, addresses, and emergency phone numbers of all involved parties.
   d.   Any construction restrictions set by the Town.
   e.   Approval of selected materials, trench backfill, etc.
   f.   Any questions contractor or subcontractors have regarding plans,
specifications, Town restrictions or regulations, and rules to follow during
construction.
   g.   Proposed construction schedule.
   h.   Traffic flow restrictions if applicable; responsibility for safety.
   i.   Permits required; IDEM, INDOT, County Drainage, etc.
   j.   Any and all other items pertaining to construction.
   k.   Proper insurance coverages.
   l.   The following personnel should be present at the preconstruction
meeting:
      1.   Town Director of Public Works.
      2.   Town Engineer.
      3.   Developer's Representative.
      4.   Developer's Engineer.
      5.   General Contractor's Representative.
      6.   Subcontractor's Representative.
      7.   Public Utilities Representatives; Northern Indiana Public Service
Company, Ameritech, etc. (Ord. No. 94-9, § VIII, B, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-
41, 12-19-00)
Sec. 10-87 Advanced Notification.
   The developer or his representative will give the Department of Public Works
seventy-two (72) hours written notice prior to commencing any construction.
After construction commences, a forty-eight (48) hour written notice to the
Town Director of Public Works shall be required prior to starting each
specialized phase of construction (earthwork, sanitary sewer, storm sewer,
water main, curb and gutter, or street construction), and prior to testing of
any of the utilities. (Ord. No. 94-9, § VIII, C, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41,
12-19-00)
Sec. 10-88 Inspection Checklist.
   During construction, the Town Engineer and the Town's Director of Public
Works will maintain periodic observation of the progress of the construction to
observe it for proper workmanship and compliance with the approved plans and
specifications. The following list indicates the minimum items that will be
checked during the periodic inspections:
   a.   Sanitary Sewers and Storm Sewers.
      1.   Location of sewer in right-of-way.
      2.   Elevation of sewer from construction stakes.
      3.   Slope of sewers.
      4.   Stone bedding materials to support sewer.
      5.   Backfill material and method of backfilling.
      6.   Special trench backfill installed where required.
      7.   Location and construction of manholes, inlets, catch basins and dry
wells.
      8.   Manhole inverts, benches, steps, frame and cover.
      9.   Manhole cleanliness.
      10.   Finished grades.
      11.   Construction of storm retention or detention ponds as per section
900 et seq. of Appendix A to the Town of Dyer Subdivision Control Ordinance as
set forth in
Article 3, Chapter 10 of the Dyer Town Code.
      12.   Infiltration, exfiltration and deflection testing of sewers.
      13.   Location, installation, and backfilling of corporation stops,
service lines, curb stops, service b-boxes.
   b.   Watermain Systems.
      1.   Location in right-of-way.
      2.   Depth of cover from construction stakes.
      3.   Bedding of pipe.
      4.   Backfilling procedures.
      5.   Special trench backfill where required.
      6.   Location of fire hydrants.
      7.   Installation of fire hydrants.
      8.   Workability of fire hydrants, valves and curb stops.
      9.   Location, installation, and backfilling of corporation stops,
service lines, curb stops, service B-boxes.
      10.   Finished grade.
      11.   Hydrostatic, pressure, and leakage testing.
      12.   Disinfection of water system.
   The following construction and associated inspection shall begin only after
installation and approval of the above underground utilities:
   c.   Streets, Curbs and Gutters.
      1.   Location of streets in right-of-way.
      2.   Subgrade prior to placing base course (also subbase in some cases)
to include proof-rolling and/or density tests.
      3.   Curb and gutter subgrade (or base course in some cases).
      4.   Line and grade of curb and gutter after forming or setting of string
lines is completed.
      5.   Spot check installation of curb and gutter, including location of
expansion joints and contraction joints, application of curing compound, and
assure that the contractor is taking concrete compression test cylinders.
      6.   Spot check placing of base course to assure that proper equipment is
used, proper compaction practices are followed, and proper depth is achieved.
      7.   Check base course for final shape and compaction prior to
application of prime coat, including proof-rolling.
      8.   Spot check placing of bituminous binder course. The Town requires a
minimum of one year of use on the binder course prior to placing of the surface
course. The binder course shall not remain uncovered for more than two (2)
years.
      9.   After the minimum one (1) year required waiting period, and before
final bituminous surface course is applied, inspect curb and gutter and binder
course for defects, settlements, or construction damage.
      10. Spot check placing of bituminous surface course. (Ord. No. 94-9, §
VIII, D, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00; Am. Ord. No. 2003-21, 10-21-
03)
Sec. 10-89 Acceptance Procedures.
   Upon completion of an improvement, Town Engineer or its designee will
witness any remaining testing of the completed work, and if all items are in
order, will inform the Town and developer that acceptance procedures may be
initiated. Final acceptance of a subdivision by the Town shall be granted only
after all of the following criteria are satisfied:
   All subdivision improvements are completed, and have passed all testing and
inspection requirements, as per approved plans and specifications, including:
   a.   All sanitary sewer, storm sewer, and watermain installation.
   b.   All curb and gutter, and sidewalks.
   c.   All streets, including final wearing surface.
   d.   Retention and/or detention ponds.
   e.   Trees and/or other plantings.
   f.   Street lights and street signs.
   g.   Public utilities, e.g., gas mains, electric power, telephone, TV cable,
etc.
   h.   All of the following legalities are satisfied:
      1.   Any amendments to final approved plat of development, if applicable.
      2.   Recapture agreements, if applicable.
      3.   Plan and profile as built drawings of all improvements supplied to
the Town Director of Public Works by the developer's engineer. Electronic
drawing submittals. The developer shall, in addition to any other forms of
submittal required elsewhere in this ordinance, provide to the town all primary
and secondary plats as well as as-built engineering drawings in an electronic
form, in the Autodesk AutoCAD drawing format. The drawing format must be in
either the current or previous version of the AutoDesk AutoCAD software. The
submittal shall be provided to the town in a standard form of magnetic or
optical media that is readable by the town information systems. Alternate
drawing formats or means of submittal may be accepted upon prior approval from
the town.
      4.   One (1) year guarantee of workmanship, in writing, on street, curb
and gutter and surface improvements, to initiate upon final acceptance.
      5.   One (1) year warranty of workmanship on underground portions of the
improvements, in writing, to initiate when the improvements are complete and
ready for acceptance.
   i. Development has passed “Final Inspection”. The final inspection is
requested by the developer through the Town's authorized representative. The
final inspection is conducted by the Town Engineer, accompanied by the
developer or his representative (engineer), contractor, and the Town's
representative(s) (Director of Public Works, Building Inspector, Fire
Department personnel, Water Works personnel, or others) if they wish to attend.
      The purpose of the final inspection is to verity on-site that the final
elevations of all improvements are correct as per approved plans, and coincide
correctly with the final street grades, landscaping, and storm drainage systems
of the development.
      A final inspection of the sanitary, storm, and water system appurtenances
is conducted to assure that there was no damage to these improvements during
final construction and grading work. The items that are checked during the
final inspection are as follows:
      1.   Condition of bituminous concrete surface course.
      2.   Condition of curb and gutter.
      3.   Condition of sidewalks, if applicable.
      4.   Finished grade of all manhole rims, structures, valve vaults, valve
boxes, fire hydrants, and water service B-boxes.
      5.   Manholes, storm manholes and inlets, valve vaults, fire hydrant
auxiliary valves, and any structure lids are opened to assure no debris was
deposited inside the structures during final grading.
      6.   Every water service B-box is keyed and turned to assure proper
operation.
      7.   Every fire hydrant is opened and closed to assure proper operation.
      8.   Street lighting and street signs are checked.
      9.   Final grading and grass cover is checked in all detention and/or
retention ponds, and in parkways if applicable.
      10.   Tree or planting installation if applicable.
      11.   The Town of Dyer Public Works Department shall perform cleaning and
televising of sanitary sewers and storm sewers. A fee, charged to the developer
has been established for this service in the Dyer Town Code at Section
10-119.
      During the final inspection, a final punchlist is prepared that notes any
deficiencies. Upon the correction of the deficiencies, a reinspection is
conducted, and if all work is satisfactorily completed, the Town Engineer will
prepare a letter recommending final acceptance by the Town. Final acceptance
shall not be granted until all requirements are satisfied.
      These inspections and recommendations for acceptance do not relieve the
developer or his engineer or his contractor of their responsibility for proper
materials or workmanship on the project, and they shall be responsible for
correction of any defects which are discovered during the guarantee time
provided by the Town's ordinances. (Ord. No. 94-9, § VIII, E, 8-9-94; Am. Ord.
No. 2000-41, 12-19-00; Am. Ord. No. 2003-24, 10-21-03)
Sec. 10-90 through 10-93 Reserved for Future Use.
Division VIII. General; Provisions.
Sec. 10-94 Interpretation, Conflict, and Separability.
   a.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the public health, safety and general welfare.
   b.   Conflict with Public and Private Provision.
      1.   Public Provisions - The regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or
other provision of law. Where any provision of these regulations imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other provision of these
regulations or any other ordinance, rule or regulation, or other provision of
law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher standards shall
control.
      2.   Private Provisions - These regulations are not intended to abrogate
any easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction, provided
that where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or regulations than such enactment, covenant, or other private
agreement or restriction, the requirements of these regulations shall govern.
Where the provisions of the easement, covenant, or private agreement or
restriction impose duties and obligations more restrictive, or higher standards
than the requirements of these regulations, or the determinations of the
Commission in approving a subdivision or in enforcing these regulations, and
such private provisions are not inconsistent with these regulations or
determinations thereunder, then such private provisions shall be operative and
supplemental to these regulations and determinations made thereunder.
      3.   Separability - If any part or provision of these regulations or
application thereof to any person or circumstances is adjudged invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its
operation to the part, provision, or application directly involved in all
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and shall not
effect or impair the validity of the remainder of these regulations or the
application thereof to other persons or circumstances. The Town declares that
it would have enacted the remainder of these regulations even without any such
part, provision or application. (Ord. No. 94-9, § IX, A, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-95 Saving Provision.
   These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as
discontinuing abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the Town under any section or provision existing at the
time of adoption of these regulations, or as vacating or annulling any rights
obtained by any person, firm, or corporation, by lawful action of the Town
except as shall be expressly provided for in these regulations. (Ord. No. 94-9,
§ IX, B, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-96 Repealer.
   Upon the adoption of this ordinance, according to law, the Subdivision
Ordinance of the Town of Dyer, adopted August 9, 1994, being Ordinance 94-9, as
amended is repealed, except for such sections expressly retained herein. (Ord.
No. 2000-41, 12-19-00)
Sec. 10-97 Amendments.
   For the purpose of providing for the public health, safety, and general
welfare, the Town, on recommendation of the Plan Commission, may from time to
time amend the provisions imposed by these subdivision regulations. Public
hearings on all proposed amendments shall be held by the Plan Commission in the
manner prescribed by law. (Ord. No. 94-9, § IX, D, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-98 Conditions.
   Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable
conditions to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated
by the State to this Town. The developer has the duty of compliance with
reasonable conditions laid down by the Commission for design, dedication,
improvement, and restrictive use of the land in order to conform to the
physical and economical development of the Town and to the safety and general
welfare of the future plot owners in the subdivision and of the Town. (Ord. No.
94-9, § IX, E, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-99 Resubdivision of Land.
   a.   Procedure for Resubdivision - For any change in a map of an approved or
recorded subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on
such map, or area reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it
affects any map or plan legally reached prior to the adoption of any
regulations controlling subdivision, such parcel shall be approved by the
Commission by the same procedure, rules and regulations as for a subdivision.
   b.   Procedure for Subdivisions where Future Resubdivision is Indicated -
Wherever a parcel of land is subdivided and subdivision plat shows one or more
lots containing more than one acre of land and there are indications that such
lots will eventually be resubdivided into smaller building sites, the
Commission may require that such parcel of land allow for the future opening of
streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for
the future opening and extension of such streets may be made a requirement of
the plat. (Ord. No. 94-9, § IX, F, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-100 Vacation of Plats.
   Any recorded plat or part of any recorded plat may be vacated only in
accordance with Indiana Code, § 36-7-3, as amended 1982, 1983 and 1986. (Ord.
No. 94-9, § IX, G, 8-9-94)
Sec. 10-101 Modifications.
   a.   General - Where the Commission finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations
and/or the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these subdivision
regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest
secured, provided that such variances shall not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of these regulations; and further provided the
Commission shall not approve modifications unless it shall make findings based
upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      1.   The granting of the modification will not be detrimental to the
public safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other nearby property;
      2.   The conditions upon which the request for a modification is based
are unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not
applicable generally to other property;
      3.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations are carried out;
      4.   The modification will not in any manner contravene the provisions of
the Zoning Ordinance, Comprehensive Plan, or Official Map as interpreted by the
Commission and the Town Engineer and;
   b.   Conditions - In approving modifications, the Commission may require
such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives
of the standards or requirements of these regulations.
   c.   Procedures - A petition for any such modification shall be submitted by
the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is filed for the
consideration of the Commission. The petition shall state fully the grounds for
the application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner. The Plan
Commission shall have no authority to grant modifications other than those
granted on petition of the subdivider filed as part of the Petition for
Subdivision. (Ord. No. 94-9, § IX, H, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. 2007-25, 12-19-07)
Sec. 10-102 Enforcement, Violation, and Penalties.
   a.   General.
      1.   It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner and/or Zoning
Administrator to enforce these regulations and to bring any violations or lack
of compliance to the attention of the Town Attorney.
      2.   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of land located in a
proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any such parcel before a plat of
such subdivision has been approved by the Commission, in accordance with the
provisions of these regulations and filed with the County Recorder.
      3.   The division of any lot or any parcel of land into a subdivision, as
defined in this ordinance, by the use of metes and bounds description for the
purpose of sale, or transfer, or lease resulting in the creation of one or more
new building sites shall not be permitted. All such described divisions shall
be subject to all of the appropriate requirements of this ordinance.
      4.   No Improvement Location Permit or Building Permit required under the
Uniform Building Code, the Zoning Ordinance or this ordinance shall be issued
on any property subject to this ordinance until the provisions of this
ordinance have been complied with and all infrastructure improvements, other
than the final coat of asphalt, have been installed, inspected and approved by
the Town of Dyer personnel and Town Engineer or his/her designee Additionally,
a lot inspection shall be performed by public works personnel prior to issuance
of occupancy permit..
   b.   Violations and Penalties - Any person who violates a provision of this
ordinance or any regulations herein contained shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00)
and not more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each day's
violation.
   c.   Restraining Provisions.
      1.   Any land within the participating jurisdictions subdivided in
violation of the terms of this ordinance after the effective date hereof, is
declared to be a common nuisance, which may be restrained, enjoined, or abated
in any appropriate action or proceeding.
      2.   The Commission may institute an injunction suit requesting an
individual governmental unit be directed to remove a structure erected in
violation of this ordinance, or to make the same comply with its terms. If the
Commission is successful in its suit, the respondent shall bear the costs of
the action, including reasonable attorney fees.
      3.   The Commission may institute a suit for mandatory injunction
requesting an individual or governmental unit be directed, where such
individual or governmental unit has violated any provisions of this ordinance,
to comply with the provisions of this ordinance. If the Commission is
successful in its suit, the respondent shall pay the Commission's reasonable
attorney fees and all costs related to the enforcement of this ordinance. (Ord.
No. 94-9, § IX, I, 8-9-94; Am. Ord. No. 2000-41, 12-19-00)
Sec. 10-103 Reserved for Future Use.
Division X. Certificates.
Sec. 10-104 Certificates Required.
   Each final plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall contain or be
accompanied by the following certificates, acknowledgments and descriptions in
substantially the following forms. (Ord. No. 791, Title XIV, 68-71)
Sec. 10-105 Certificate of Approval.
   Under the authority provided by Chapter 174, Acts of 1947, enacted by the
General Assembly of the State of Indiana, and all acts amendatory thereto and
an ordinance or amendments thereto adopted by the Town Council of the Town of
Dyer, Lake County, Indiana, this plat was given final approval by a majority of
the members of the Town Plan Commission of Dyer, Indiana, at a meeting held
          19    .
                              Dyer Plan Commission
                              President
                              Secretary (Ord. No. 791, Title XIV, § 1, 6-8-71)
Sec. 10-106 Land Surveyor's or Registered Professional Engineer's Certificate.
   Each final plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall carry a
certificate signed by a Registered Professional Surveyor or Registered
Professional Engineer, in substantially the following form:
   “I,                          , hereby certify that I am a Registered
Professional Land Surveyor or Registered Professional Engineer of the State of
Indiana; that this plat correctly represents a survey completed by me on
                 , 19       , that all the monuments shown thereon actually
exist, and that their location, size, type and material are accurately shown,
and comply with the provisions of the Subdivision Control Ordinance.” (Ord. No.
791, Title XIV, § 2, 6-8-71)
Sec. 10-107 Legal Description Certificate.
   The Final Plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall contain a
metes and bounds legal description prepared by the Registered Professional Land
Surveyor or Registered Professional Engineer of the outside boundary of the
completed survey. (Ord. No. 791, Title XIV, § 3, 6-8-71)
Sec. 10-108 Acknowledgment Certificate.
State of Indiana   )
            )   SS:
County of Lake   )
   Before me, the undersigned Notary Public in and for the County and State,
personally appeared                       (owner) and each separately and
severally acknowledged the execution of the foregoing instrument as his or her
voluntary act and deed, for the purposes expressed therein.
      WITNESS my hand and Notarial Seal this       day of                    ,
19   .
                                 Notary Public
   SEAL
   My Commission Expires                      , 19   . (Ord. No. 791, Title
XIV, § 4, 6-8-71)
Sec. 10-109 Dedication Certificate.
   Each Final Plat submitted to the Commission for approval shall carry a deed
of dedication, either of said Final Plat or incorporated therein by reference,
in substantially the following form:
We, the undersigned owners of the real estate shown and described herein, do
hereby lay off, plat and subdivide said real estate in accordance with the
herein plat.
This subdivision shall be known and designated as an addition to the Town of
Dyer, Lake County, State of Indiana. All streets and alleys and public open
spaces shown and not heretofore dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the public.
Front and side yard building setback lines are hereby established, as shown on
this plat, between which lines and the property lines of streets, there shall
be erected or maintained no building or structure. Easements for installation
and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved, as shown on
the recorded plat. All easements shown thereon shall inure to the benefit of
the Town and the public or quasi-municipal utilities. Within these easements,
no structure, planting, or other material shall be placed or permitted to
remain, which may damage or interfere with the installation and maintenance of
utilities, or which may change the direction of flow of drainage channels in
the easements, or which may obstruct or retard the flow of water throughout
drainage channels in the easements. The easement area of each lot and all
improvements in it shall be maintained continuously by the owner of the lots
except for those improvements for which a public authority or utility is
responsible.
The right to enforce these provisions by injunction, together with the right to
cause the removal, by due process of law, of any structure or part thereof
erected or maintained in violation hereof, is dedicated to the public, and
reserved to the several owners of the several lots in this subdivision and to
their heirs and assigns.
WITNESS OUR HANDS AND SEALS THIS       DAY OF                  , 19   .
                              Signature
                              Signature
                              Signature
(Ord. No. 791, Title XIV, § 5, 6-8-71)
Sec. 10-110 Provision for Private Deed Restrictions or Covenants.
   The following is the suggested wording for private covenants or
restrictions:
The foregoing covenants, (or restrictions), are to run with the land and shall
be binding on all parties, and all persons claiming under them until January 1,
19   
(a 25 year period is suggested), at which time said covenants, (or
restrictions), shall be automatically extended for successive periods of ten
(10) years, unless by vote of the majority of the then owners of the lots
covered by these covenants, or restrictions, it is agreed to change such
covenants, or restrictions, in whole or in part. Invalidation of any one of the
foregoing covenants, or restrictions, by judgment or Court order, shall in no
way affect any of the other covenants or restrictions, which shall remain in
full force and effect. (Ord. No. 791, Title XIV, § 6, 6-8-71)
Sec. 10-111 Other Certificates.
   Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements, or documents as may be
required by the Commission in the enforcement of these regulations, shall be
incorporated in the Final Plat. (Ord. No. 791, Title XIV, § 7, 6-8-71)
Sec. 10-112 Enactment.
   This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
publication, and the filing with the County Recorder of a certified copy
thereof, all according to law. (Ord. No. 791, Title XV, 6-8-71)
Sec. 10-113 Table 1-Design Standards-Streets.
   Street Design
   Standards                                       Table 1
   Type of Street                                    Design Standards
Arterial, Primary & Secondary Thoroughfares               Plans, profiles and
                                                cross-sections based
                                                upon Major
                                                Thoroughfare Plan or
                                                as determined by the
                                                Commission
   Development Density
                                    Low      Medium   High
Residential Collector
                                       Low      Medium      High
Minor Residential
   Type of Curb (V=Vertical Face)               V         V         V
Type of Curb                              R         R/V      V
                                       V=Vertical Face
                                       R=Roll Type
                                       Sidewalk Width (ft.)*   0/455
   Maximum Grade                           8%         8%         8%
   Minimum Grade                           0.5%      0.5%      0.5%
   Marginal Access Street (R.O.W. ft.)**            40         40/50      50/60
   Marginal Access Pavement Width (ft.)            20         22/26      32/36
*   Installation of sidewalks on both sides of the street shall be required.
Sidewalks shall run from curb to curb. The commission may waive this
requirement along strictly rural streets, or where non-residential use makes a
walk unnecessary, or for such other reasons as it deems appropriate. Sidewalks
shall conform to Town specifications.
**   Curb and gutter shall generally not be required on the highway side. A
planting strip with a minimum of ten (10) feet may be required on the highway
side.
NOTE:   Pavement widths are measured from back of curb to back of curb. (Ord.
No. 791 Appendix, 6-8-71)
Sec. 10-114 Table 2–Intersection Design Standards.
Vertical Alignment within area   3% Maximum
Minimum Angle of Intersection   80°(90° preferred)
Minimum Curb Radius - (ft.)
§ 10-114 ZONING AND SUBDIVISIONS§ 10-115.3
Minimum Centerline Offset of Adjacent Intersections (Street Jogs - Ft.)
(Ord. No. 791, Appendix, 6-8-71)
Division XI. Design Standards for Erosion and Sediment Control.
Sec. 10-115.1 Permit for Installation of Erosion and Sediment Control Systems.
Erosion and Sediment Control Plans shall be submitted to the Plan Commission as
part of the construction plans and specifications and shall include the
following:
   a.   Temporary erosion and sediment control measures necessary prior to and
during the initial construction and establishment phases up to final site
grading and seeding.
   b.   A permanent erosion and sediment control plan of all the graded and
non-hard surface areas within the proposed development, as planned for
completion, up to and including seeding of the final lot on which business or
residential dwellings are to be place.
   c.   Details concerning removal of temporary erosion control devices after
the initial establishment of adequate vegetative cover.
   d.   Maintenance procedures as part of the continuing plan to keep all of
the land under adequate cover and erosion at an acceptable minimum.
   e.   All erosion control measures, including, but not limited to, those
required to comply with the ordinance, shall meet the design criteria,
standards and specifications for erosion control measures similar to or the
same as those outlined in the most recent edition of the Indiana Handbook for
Erosion Control in Developing Areas.
   f.   No person shall be granted primary plat approval for a parcel of real
property having an area of 2,500 or more square feet without the approval of an
erosion and sediment control plan by the Town of Dyer Plan Commission.
   g.   Each plan shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner or
developer of the site, and of any consulting firm retained by the applicant
together with the name of the applicant's principal contact at such firm.
   h.   Each plan shall include a statement that any land clearing,
construction, or development involving the movement of earth shall be in
accordance with the erosion and sediment control plan.
(Ord. No. 2004-13, § 1, 9-15-04)
Sec. 10-115.2 Review and Approval.
   The Town of Dyer Plan Commission shall review each application for plat of
subdivision and Erosion and Sediment Control Plan to determine its conformance
with the provisions of this division.
(Ord. No. 2004-13, § 1, 9-15-04)
Sec. 10-115.3 Erosion and Sediment Control Plan.
   1.   The Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall include the following:
      a.   A sequence of construction of the development site, including
stripping and clearing; rough grading; construction of utilities,
infrastructure, and the expected date on which clearing will begin, the
estimated duration of exposure of cleared areas, areas of clearing,
installation of temporary erosion and sediment control measures, and
establishment of permanent vegetation.
      b.   All erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the
objectives of this local regulation throughout all phases of construction and
after completion of development of the site. Depending upon the complexity of
the project, the drafting of intermediate plans may be required at the close of
each season.
      c.   Seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seedbed
preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and fertilizer
application, and kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent
vegetative control measures.
      d.   Provisions for maintenance of control facilities, including
easements and estimates of the cost of maintenance.
   2.   Modifications to the plan shall be processed and approved or
disapproved in the same manner described above and may be authorized by the
Town of Dyer Plan Commission by written authorization, and shall include:
      a.   Major amendments of the erosion and sediment control plan submitted
to the Town of Dyer Plan Commission; and
      b.   Field modifications of a minor nature.
(Ord. No. 2004-13, § 1, 9-15-04)
Sec. 10-115.4 Design Requirements.
   1.   Grading, erosion control practices, sediment control practices, and
waterway crossings shall meet the design criteria set forth herein, and shall
be adequate to prevent transportation of sediment from the site to the
satisfaction of the Town of Dyer Plan Commission. Cut and fill slopes shall be
no greater than 2:1, except as approved by the Town of Dyer Plan Commission to
meet other community or environmental objectives.
   2.   Clearing and grading of natural resources, such as forests and
wetlands, shall not be permitted, except when in compliance with all other
chapters of this Subdivision Control Ordinance. Clearing techniques that retain
natural vegetation and drainage patterns, as described herein, shall be used to
the satisfaction of the Town of Dyer Plan Commission.
   3.   Clearing, except that necessary to establish sediment control devices,
shall not begin until all sediment control devices have been installed and have
been stabilized.
   4.   Erosion control requirements shall include the following:
      a.   Soil stabilization shall be completed within five (5) days of
clearing or inactivity in construction;
      b.   If seeding or another vegetative erosion control method is used, it
shall become established within two (2) weeks or the Town of Dyer Plan
Commission may require the site to be reseeded or a nonvegetative option
employed;
      c.   Special techniques that meet the design criteria outlined herein on
steep slopes or in drainage ways shall be used to ensure stabilization;
      d.   Soil stockpiles must be stabilized or covered at the end of each
workday;
      e.   The entire site must be stabilized, using a heavy mulch layer or
another method that does not require germination to control erosion, at the
close of the construction season;
      f.   Techniques shall be employed to prevent the blowing of dust or flow
of sediment from the site;
      g.   Techniques that divert upland runoff past disturbed slopes shall be
employed.
   5.   Sediment controls requirements shall include:
      a.   Settling Basins. A settlement basin is an impoundment with a
controlled stormwater release structure for the purpose of detaining runoff to
allow excessive sediment to settle. Settlement basins shall be required at the
outlet of any disturbed areas with major grading that are larger than ten (10)
acres. The minimum volume of a sediment basin shall be sixty-seven (67) cubic
yards per acre for the total drainage area, measured below the top of principal
spillway or riser. The cleanout volume shall be not less than one-quarter (1/4)
nor more than one-third (1/3) of the total storage volume of a sediment basin.
Maximum slopes shall be 2:1 (H:V) for excavated areas and for compacted
embankments. Side slopes shall be 3:1 (H:V) or flatter, which will allow people
and equipment to safely negotiate slopes or to enter the sediment basin for
maintenance and repair purposes. The length to width ratio must be greater than
2:1 (L:W) for the principal flowpaths in order to maximize residence time of
stormwater within the sediment basin. The principal outlet or spillway should
be sized to adequately convey stormwater runoff from the two (2) year, twenty-
four (24) hour storm.
      b. Sediment Traps. A sediment trap is a small temporary pond that drains
a disturbed area so that sediment can settle out. Sediment traps shall be
required for any disturbed area which is greater than one (1) acre and less
than five (5) acres. The minimum volume of a sediment trap shall be sixty-seven
(67) cubic yards per acre for the total drainage area. The outlet structure
shall consist of layers of aggregate, rock or riprap material. The cleanout
volume shall be not less than one-quarter (1/4) nor more than one-third (1/3)
of the total storage volume of a sediment basin. Maximum slopes shall be 2:1
(H:V) for excavated areas and for compacted embankments. Side slopes shall be
3:1 (H:V) or flatter, which will allow people and equipment to safely negotiate
slopes or to enter the sediment basin for maintenance and repair purposes. The
length to width ratio must be greater than 2:1 (L:W) for the principal
flowpaths in order to maximize residence time of stormwater within the sediment
basin. An emergency overflow weir should be provided at an elevation of at
least one and one-half feet (1.5') below the top of embankment, with a minimum
freeboard of one foot (1').
      c.   Silt Fences. Silt fencing shall be required on all disturbed areas
and shall be constructed pursuant to the following standards:
         (1)   Install silt fence at level grade parallel to the contour of the
land; extend ends upslope to allow water to pond behind fence; excavate a
trench four inches (4") wide, eight inches (8") deep; install fence with posts
on the down slope side; place twelve inches (12") of fabric in the trench,
extending the bottom four inches (4") toward the upslope side; join silt fence
sections by using a wrap joint; backfill trench with soil materials and
compact; inspect at least weekly and after each storm event, repairing as
needed and removing sediment deposits when they reach one-half (1/2) the fence
height.
         (2)   The maximum drainage area to the silt fence shall be one-half
(0.5) acre or less per one hundred feet (100') of fence. Silt fencing shall not
be used in live or continuously flowing streams or channels and shall not be
used in ditches or swales which drain areas greater than one (1) acre. Silt
fences shall not be used in steep ditches or swales where the design flow is
greater than two feet (2') per second.
         (3)   Silt fencing fabric shall be comprised of synthetic filter
fabric manufactured from woven or nonwoven sheets of polypropylene, nylon or
polyester. Typical properties for silt fencing fabric shall be as follows:
            Tensile strength at 20% elongation:   50 pounds per linear inch
            Burst strength:               180 psi
            Trapezoidal tear strength:         50 pounds
            Apparent opening size:         20 to 30 (US sieve size)
            Flow rate:                  0.30 gallons per minute per square foot
         (4)   The maximum length of silt fence between posts is eight feet
(8'). Wood posts shall have a minimum dimension of two inches (2") x two inches
(2") for hard woods (i.e. oak) and three inches (3") x three inches (3") for
soft woods (i.e. pine). Typical post length shall be forty-eight inches (48").
There shall be a minimum of five (5) fasteners for each wood post.
         (5)   The maximum slope lengths for silt fence installations shall be
as follows:
            Land Slope         Maximum Slope Length
            Less than 2%         100 feet
            From 2% to 5%      75 feet
            From 5% to 10%       50 feet
            From 10% to 20%   25 feet
            More than 20%      15 feet
      d.   Protection for adjacent properties by the use of a vegetated buffer
strip in combination with perimeter controls.
      e.   Installation and maintenance of drop inlet protection devices,
utilizing either of the following techniques:
         1.   Silt Fence. Construct a six inch (6") dike on the down slope side
to prevent bypass flow; dig a trench eight inches (8") deep and four inches
(4") wide; space support posts evenly against the inlet perimeter a maximum of
four feet (4') apart and drive them one and one-half feet (1.5') into the
ground; use enough fabric from a single roll to eliminate joints and using lath
and nails, fasten fabric to the posts; place twelve inches (12") of fabric in
the trench, extending the bottom four inches (4") toward the upslope side; join
silt fence sections by using a wrap joint; backfill the trench with soil
materials and compact; cross brace the comers to prevent collapse of the
structure; inspect at least weekly and after each storm event, and repair as
needed, and remove accumulated sediments after every storm.
         2.   Placement of a pre-manufactured drop inlet protection device
around the inlet perimeter, having at least the same design characteristics set
forth in the preceding paragraph.
         3.   Block and Gravel. Place concrete blocks lengthwise on their sides
in a single row around the perimeter of the inlet, so that the open ends face
outward and not upward. Ends of adjacent blocks should abut. The height of the
barrier can be varied by stacking combinations of blocks that are typically six
(6) or eight (8) inches high. Place geotextile filter fabric over the outside
vertical face of the concrete blocks. If more than one strip is necessary,
overlap the strips by at least one foot (1'). Place clean stone against the
geotextile filter fabric up to the top of the concrete blocks. Use one-half
inch (1/2") to three-quarter inch (3/4") gravel.
   5.   Waterway and watercourse protection requirements shall include:
      a.   A temporary stream crossing installed and approved by the Town of
Dyer Plan Commission if a wet watercourse will be crossed regularly during
construction;
      b.   Stabilization of the watercourse channel before, during, and after
any in-channel work;
      c.   All on-site storm water conveyance channels designed according to
the criteria outlined herein;
      d.   Stabilization adequate to prevent erosion located at the outlets of
all pipes and paved channels.
   6.   Construction site access requirements shall include:
      a.   A temporary site access road provided at all sites, unless the Town
of Dyer Plan Commission determines that such temporary access road is not
necessary. Such temporary site access road shall be constructed pursuant to the
following standards:
         Place six inches (6") of course aggregate (INDOT CA No. 2) over a
stable subgrade; construct the road at least twelve feet (12') wide and fifty
feet (50') long or the distance of the foundation; add stone as needed to
maintain six inches (6") of clean depth.
      b.   Other measures required by the Town of Dyer Plan Commission in order
to ensure that sediment is not tracked onto public streets by construction
vehicles or washed into storm drains.
(Ord. No. 2004-13, § 1, 9-15-04)
Sec. 10-115.5 Inspection.
   1.   The Town of Dyer Plan Commission shall make inspections as hereinafter
required and either shall approve that portion of the work completed or shall
notify the owner of developer wherein the work fails to comply with the Erosion
and Sediment Control Plan as approved. Plans for grading, stripping,
excavating, and filling work bearing the stamp of approval of the Town of Dyer
Plan Commission shall be maintained at the site during the progress of the
work. To obtain inspections, the owner or developer shall notify the Town of
Dyer Plan Commission at least two (2) working days before the following:
      a.   Start of construction;
      b.   Installation of sediment and erosion measures;
      c.   Completion of site clearing;
      d.   Completion of rough grading;
      e.   Completion of final grading;
      f.   Close of the construction season; and
      g.   Completion of final landscaping.
   2.   The owner or developer or his/her agent shall make regular inspections
of all control measures in accordance with the inspection schedule outlined on
the approved Erosion and Sediment Control Plan, as approved. The purpose of
such inspections will be to determine the overall effectiveness of the control
plan and the need for additional control measures. All inspections shall be
documented in written form and submitted to the Town of Dyer Plan Commission,
or their designated Town employee(s) or agent(s) at the time interval
specified.
   3.   The Town of Dyer Plan Commission, or their designated Town employee(s)
or agent(s), shall enter the property of the applicant as deemed necessary to
make regular inspections to ensure the validity of the reports filed by the
owner of developer.
(Ord. No. 2004-13, § 1, 9-15-04)
Sec. 10-116 Through Sec. 10-118 Reserved for Future Use.
ARTICLE 4. ZONING.
Division I. Zoning Ordinance.
Sec. 10-119 Schedule of Fees.
   The following schedule of fees shall apply:
   Certificate of Zoning Compliance:
      Residential   $10.00
      Commercial   $25.00
   Maps:
      Zoning   $5.00
      Streets   $5.00
      Soils   $5.00
      Land Use   $5.00
      TIF District   $5.00
      Wards   $5.00
      Subdivision Control Ordinance   $50.00
      Book of Standards   $50.00
      Comprehensive Plan   $50.00
   Development Related Fees:
      Plan Commission:
      Rezoning Fee   $200.00
      Special Meetings requested by a Petitioner   $400.00
Public hearing signs shall be purchased by a petitioner from the town at a cost
of $25.00 and shall be posted on the property that is the subject of a given
public hearing before either the Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals in
accordance with the Rules and Regulations of both bodies.
   SUD Development Review:
         Residential additions/remodels   $50.00
         Commercial   See below
      1.   Single Developer Site Plan Review
         a.   Minimum Fee - per acre   $250.00
      2.   Preliminary Site Development Review
         a.   Minimum Fee - per lot   $300.00
      3.   Preliminary Architectural Plans and Materials Review
         a.   Minimum Fee - per building   $500.00
      4.   Final Site, Architectural and Material - Construction Documents
Review
         a.   Minimum Fee - per building
            i.   From 1 - 5,000 sq. ft.   $1,000.00
            ii.   From 5,001 - 10,000 sq. ft.    $1,800.00
            iii.   For every 10,000 sq. ft. over 10,001 sq. ft.    $500.00
      5.   Sign(s) Review
         a.   Minimum Fee - per building   $300.00
      6.   Residential (under 3 units) Review for new construction
         a.   Minimum Fee - per building   $300.00
      7.   Re-submission from Denial
         a.   Minimum Fee   $250.00
Preparation of written review, meetings and travel will be calculated at an
hourly rate of $75.00 per hour.
Minimum fee, paid by petitioner, will be used for the preparation of a written
review, meeting time and travel. If a petitioner's submission requires
additional time for meetings and/or travel, additional fees will be calculated
at an hourly rate of $75.00 per hour.
   Non-SUD Commercial Site Plan Review   $1,000.00
   Subdivision Fees:
   Pre-application Fee:
    10 lots   $500.00
    10 lots   $1,000.00
Engineering Review Fee for Residential Developments (application fee):
    10 lots   $450.00 per lot
    11-25 lots   $350.00 per lot
    26-39 lots   $300.00 per lot
    40 lots   $250.00 per lot
   Engineering Review Fee for Commercial/Industrial Developments:
   2% of the costs of site improvements whether such improvements are public or
private. This does not include the building(s).
   Subdivision Inspection Fee:
   2% of total approved cost of construction or installation of improvements
whether such improvements are public or private.
   Maintenance letter of credit:
   10% of total cost of improvements
   Cleaning and televising of sanitary and storm lines - All costs will be
based on actual time and material
    using the rates below.
         Piece of Equipment               Cost Per Hour
         Operator with Experience*               $ 26.00
         Camera Van                        $ 75.00
         Sewer Vactor/Rodder                  $140.00
*Please note that it requires a minimum of three (3) operators to clean and/or
televise any sanitary or storm line.
   Board of Zoning Appeals Hearings:
   Residential   $100.00
   Commercial   $200.00
   Special Meetings requested by a Petitioner   $400.00
Public hearing signs shall be purchased by a petitioner from the town at a cost
of $25.00 and shall be posted on the property that is the subject of a given
public hearing before either the Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals in
accordance with the Rules and Regulations of both bodies.
In the event that the Engineering Review Fee (application fee), Site Plan
Review Fee, SUD Commercial Development Fee and/or the Subdivision Inspection
Fee does not cover the Town's actual costs of review or inspection, the Town
may charge additional fees for these services based upon the actual costs
incurred. In the event of an overpayment of any of these fees, a refund will be
issued to the petitioner.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2016-02, 3-10-16)
Sec. 10-120 Definitions.
   For the purposes of this Ordinance, certain terms or words used herein shall
be interpreted as follows:
   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership,
trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual.
   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number includes
the plural, and the plural number includes the singular.
   The word “shall” is mandatory, the word “may” is permissive.
   The words “used” or “occupied” include the words “intended”, “designed”, or
“arranged to be used or occupied”.
   a.   Abandonment. The relinquishment of property or a cessation of the use
of the property, by the owner with the intention neither of transferring rights
to the property owner nor of resuming the use of the property.
   b.   Abut or Adjacent. To share a common wall or lot line without being
separated by a street or alley.
   c.   Accessory Building. A subordinate structure, such as a garage, storage
shed, or barn, the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant use of
the principal building or land.
   d.   Accessibility Ramp. A ramp or similar structure that provides
wheelchair or similar access to a structure.
   e.   Accessory Use. A use on the same lot as the principal use and
subordinate to the principal use of the land or structure thereon.
   f.   Addition/Enlargement. Construction that increases the size of a
structure in terms of building footprint, height, or floor area.
   g.   Administrator. The officer appointed by and/or delegated the
responsibility for the administration of these regulations by the Planning
Commission. This term includes, those planning staff members working under the
direction of the Administrator in the exercise of his/her responsibilities in
regard to the processing of these Subdivision Regulations.
   h.   Adjacent Property Owners. Those parties who are the owners of
properties adjoining or adjacent to the proposed subdivision as shown on the
sketch plan.
   i.   Adult Use. Adult use includes:
      1.   Adult retail where the following are sold: publications,
photographs, films, or other video reproductions, or visual representations
that depict or described specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, or devices or paraphernalia designed for use in connection with
specified sexual activities; and
      2.   Adult entertainment where a business features dances, go-go dancers,
exotic dancers or similar entertainers, or live entertainment, in which persons
regularly appear in a state of nudity, or where live performances are
characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified
sexual activities. Adult use establishments specifically exclude minors, or
minors are specifically prohibited by statute or ordinance, regardless of
whether any such business is licensed to sell alcoholic beverages. Any adult
use must be a minimum of one thousand (1,000) feet from any residential use,
place of worship, educational facility, or day care center.
   j.   Alley. A public or private vehicular right-of-way primarily designed to
serve as secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose
principal frontage is on some other street.
   k.   Animal Care Facility. A business which provides care for domestic
animals, including veterinary offices for the treatment of animals, where
animals are boarded during the day or for overnight stays.
   l.   Annexation. The incorporation of a land area into an existing community
with a resulting change in the boundaries of that community.
   m.   Antique Shop. A retail establishment engaged in the sale of goods and
merchandise, the majority of which are older than fifty (50) years, have value
as collectibles, and are not intended for everyday use or wear.
   n.   Applicant. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his agent or
his legal representative.
   o.   Art Gallery. A business engaged in the sale, loan and/or display of
paintings, sculpture, photographs, video art, or other works of art. Art
gallery does not include a cultural facility, such as a library or museum,
which may also display paintings, sculpture, photographs, video art, or other
works.
   p.   Art and Fitness Studio. A business where an art, type of art or
activity is taught, studied, or practiced such as dance, martial arts,
photography, music, painting, palates, or yoga. An art and fitness studio also
includes private exercise studios that are only open for private sessions with
trainers and/or classes, but does not include health clubs.
   q.   Arbor. A freestanding structure to support vines or trained climbing
plants.
   r.   Auction House. An establishment that offers for public sale goods,
wares, and merchandise to the highest bidder.
   s.   Automatic Teller Machine, Exterior (ATM). An automated structure
providing limited banking services without personal attendants.
   t.   Awning. A roof like structure typically made of cloth, metal, or other
material attached to a frame that extends from and is supported by a building.
Awnings are typically erected over a window, doorway, or building front and
they may be raised or retracted to a position adjacent to the building.
   u.   Balcony. A roofed or unroofed platform that projects from the exterior
wall of a structure above the ground floor, which is exposed to the open air,
has direct access to the interior of the building, and is not supported by
posts or columns extending to the ground.
   v.   Bay Window. A window that projects outward from the structure, which
does not rest on the building foundation or on the ground.
   w.   Bed and Breakfast. A single-family residential dwelling where a
resident/owner, who lives on the premises, provides lodging for a daily fee in
guest rooms with no in-room cooking facilities and prepares meals for guests. A
bed and breakfast may include dining facilities. A bed and breakfast is a
principal use of a single-family dwelling and does not include transient
vacation rentals or any other type of short-term rental.
   x.   Berm. An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest on a site,
screen undesirable views, reduce noise, or fulfill other similar purposes.
   y.   Billboard. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered at a location other than
the premises on which the sign is located.
   z.   Blank Wall Area. Any portion of an exterior wall facing a street that
does not contain doors or windows, columns, pilasters or other articulation
representing a projection or recess of at least six (6) inches, or a
significant change in building materials or texture of building materials,
which is calculated horizontally along the building facade.
   aa.   Block. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of
streets and public parks, cemetery, railroad rights- of-way, shorelines of
waterways, or boundary lines of municipalities.
   bb.   Bond. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property, or instrumental credit in an amount and form satisfactory
to the Town Council. All bonds must be approved by the Town Council wherever a
bond is required by these regulations.
   cc.   Body Modification Establishment. A business that offers tattooing
services, body piercing, and/or non-medical body modification. Body
modification establishment does not include an establishment that offers only
ear piercing as an ancillary service.
   dd.   Brewpub. A restaurant-based establishment where beer is manufactured
and stored on the licensed premises and sold at retail from storage tanks to
non-licensees, and sold in packages to importing distributors, distributors,
and non-licensees in accordance with the brewpub license. The brewing capacity
is limited to less than six thousand (6,000) barrels per year. (See “micro-
brewery” for brewing capacity in excess of six thousand (6,000) barrels per
year.)
   ee.   Broadcasting Facility - TV/Radio. A facility engaged in broadcasting
and information relay services for radio and television signals. A broadcasting
facility may or may not include antennas to broadcast the signal.
   ff.   Buffer. Land area with landscape plantings and other components used
to visibly separate one use from another and/or to shield or block noise,
lights, or other nuisances.
   gg.   Buildable Area. The space remaining on a lot after the minimum setback
and maximum building coverage requirements are met.
   
   hh.   Building. Any structure built for the enclosure, protection, shelter
of persons, animals, or property of any kind and which is permanently affixed
to the ground.
   ii.   Building Code. That Town ordinance or group of ordinances establishing
and controlling the standards for constructing buildings, utilities, mechanical
equipment and all forms of structures and permanent installations and related
matters, within the Town. Also referred to herein as the Dyer Building Code.
   jj.   Bulk. A term used to describe the size and relationships of structures
as to area, height, coverage, and shape, location of exterior walls in relation
to lot lines, the centerline of streets, other walls of the same structure and
to other structures, and to all open spaces relating to the structure.
   kk.   Business. An occupation, employment, or enterprise that occupies time,
attention, labor and materials, where merchandise is exhibited or sold, or
where services are offered.
   ll.   Business Service Center. An establishment that provides support
services to businesses and the public that includes services such as delivery
and/or receipt of packages, copying of documents, including self-service copy
machines, computer access for a fee, faxing, and sales of office supplies.
   mm.   Building Inspector. That official of local government authorized to
issue building permits.
   nn.   Building Permit. A certificate issued by the Building Inspector of a
governing body permitting a person, firm or corporation to erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish any
building or structure within its jurisdiction, or cause the same to be done.
   oo.   Capital Improvements Program. A proposed schedule of all future
projects listed in order of construction priority together with cost estimates
and the anticipated means of financing each project. All major projects
requiring the expenditure of public funds, over and above the annual local
government's operating expenses for the purchase, construction or replacement
of the more durable, longer lived physical assets for the community are
included.
   pp.   Central Sewer System. A community sewer system including collection
and treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new
subdivision or an existing sewer system.
   qq.   Central Water Systems. A community water supply system including
existing and new wells and/or surface water sources and intakes, treatment
facilities, and distribution lines and includes such of the above facilities
established by the developer to serve a new subdivision.
   rr.   Certificate. The signed and attested document which indicates that a
subdivision has been granted secondary approval by the Commission subsequent to
proper public notice of its hearing.
   ss.   Commission. The Dyer Plan Commission.
   tt.   Commission Attorney. The licensed attorney designated by the Dyer Town
Council to furnish legal assistance for the administration of this ordinance or
as provided by statute.
   uu.   Comprehensive Plan. Inclusive physical, social and economic plans and
policies in graphic and verbal statement forms for the development of the Town,
prepared and adopted by the Commission and Town Council, pursuant to the State
Acts, and including any part of such plan and/or policies separately adopted
and any amendment to such plan and/or policies, or parts thereof.
   vv.   Car-share Facility. A car-share facility is a membership-based car-
sharing service that provides automobile rental to members, billable by the
hour or day, and is not considered a vehicle rental establishment.
   ww.   Car Wash. A business for the washing and cleaning of passenger
vehicles, recreational vehicles or other light duty equipment, whether
automatic, by hand, or self-service.
   xx.   Carport. An open-sided roofed vehicle shelter, usually formed by
extension of the roof from the side of a building but may be freestanding.
   yy.   Children's Home. A residential facility that provides both long-term
residence for and short-term care and services to children up to eighteen (18)
years of age, who have experienced abuse, neglect, violence, abandonment, and/
or are in need of supervised care. A children's home includes counseling for
children within the facility and for parents and children not residing at the
facility, and offices for the administration of the facility and its associated
programs. It may also include day care services as an ancillary function.
Children's homes must be appropriately licensed by the State of Indiana.
   zz.   Chimney. A vertical shaft of reinforced concrete, masonry or other
approved material enclosing one or more flues, for the purpose of removing
products of combustion from solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel.
   aaa.   Coach House. An additional dwelling unit located within a detached
garage on the upper floor that is associated with, and incidental to, the
principal single-family dwelling on the same lot. A coach house includes
separate cooking and sanitary facilities, with its own means of ingress and
egress.
   bbb.   Construction Plan(s). The preliminary and/or final drawings
accompanying a subdivision plat and showing the specific location and design of
improvements to be installed for the subdivision in accordance with the
requirements of this ordinance as a condition of the approval of the plat.
   ccc.   Community Center. A facility used as a place of meeting, recreation,
or social activity, that is open to the public and is not operated for profit,
and offers a variety of educational and community service activities.
   ddd.   Community Garden. The cultivation of fruits, flowers, vegetables, or
ornamental plants by one or more persons or family. Community gardens do not
include the keeping of any animals, bees, or aquaculture, or the use of heavy
machinery.
   eee.   Community Residence. A residence licensed, certified, or accredited
for specialized residential care home by the appropriate state or federal
agencies, that functions as a single housekeeping unit for the housing of
unrelated persons with functional disabilities who share responsibilities,
meals, recreation, social activities, and other aspects of residential living.
The use matrix in Table 8-1 distinguishes sizes of community residents by
number of residents; this number includes any caretakers that live on-site.
   fff.   Condominium. The division of building(s) and the related land into
horizontal property interests meeting the requirements of and controlled by
Indiana statutes for condominiums as prescribed by I.C. 32-1-6-1 through 31.
   ggg.   Consignment Shop. An establishment where personal items, such as
clothes, jewelry, or artifacts, or small furniture are resold through a broker
for the owner at an agreed-upon price.
   hhh.   Craft Brew Lounge. An establishment that serves craft beer. Craft
beer is defined as a beer from a craft brewery that:
      1.   Produces less than fifteen thousand (15,000) barrels of beer
annually or four hundred sixty-five thousand (465,000) gallons; and
      2.   Produces a significant volume of either malt beers or beers that use
adjuncts to enhance, rather than to lighten, flavor.
   iii.   Cross-Access. A vehicular and/or pedestrian connection between
abutting properties in different ownership that connects the two (2) sites and
allows vehicles and/or pedestrians to travel between sites without the having
to exit to the street.
   jjj.   Cul-de-Sac. A local street with only one (1) outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement
including public safety vehicles.
   kkk.   Cultural Facility. A facility open to the public that provides access
to cultural exhibits and activities including, but not limited to, museums,
cultural centers, non-commercial galleries, historical societies, and
libraries. A cultural facility may include retail sales of related items and
restaurants as ancillary uses.
   lll.   Cutoff. The point at which all light rays emitted by a lamp, light
source or luminaire are generally eliminated (cutoff) at a specific angle above
the ground, acknowledging that some light trespass may occur.
   mmm.   Day Care Center. A state licensed facility operated by any person,
group of persons, agency, association or organization, where care, protection,
and supervision is provided for children or well, ambulatory, or semi-
ambulatory (non-bedridden) adults for less than twenty- four (24) hours per
day.
   nnn.   Day Care Home. A state licensed facility operated in a dwelling where
a permanent occupant of the dwelling provides for the care, protection, and
supervision of a maximum of eight (8) clients, at any one time, apart from
their parents or legal guardian, for less than twenty-four (24) hours per day.
Clients are defined as children under twelve (12) and include the permanent
occupant's natural, foster, or adopted children.
   ooo.   Dead-End Street. A street or a portion of a street with only one (1)
vehicular traffic outlet, and no turnaround at the terminal end.
   ppp.   Deck. A roofless outdoor space built as an aboveground platform
projecting from the wall of a structure and connected by structural supports at
grade or by the structure.
   qqq.   Developer. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or one who is
hired by the owner to subdivide or develop the land. Consent for making
applications for development approval is required from the legal owner of the
premises.
   rrr.   Drip Line. A vertical line extending from the outmost edge of the
tree canopy or shrub branch to the ground.
   sss.   Drive-Through Facility. A portion of a business where business is
transacted directly with customers via a service window that allows customers
to remain in their vehicle.
   ttt.   Drives, Private. Vehicular streets and driveways, paved or unpaved,
which are wholly within private property, except where they intersect with
other streets within public rights-of-way.
   uuu.   Dwelling. A structure, or portion thereof, designed or used
exclusively for human habitation, including single-family dwellings (detached
and attached), two-family dwellings, townhouse dwellings, and multi-family
dwellings, but excluding mobile homes and hotels/motels.
   vvv.   Dwelling - Above the Ground Floor. Dwelling units located above
ground-floor non-residential uses or behind ground-floor non-residential uses.
In the case of dwelling units located behind ground-floor non- residential
uses, the residential uses cannot be located along the primary street frontage.
   www.   Dwelling - Multi-Family. A structure containing three (3) or more
dwelling units used for residential occupancy not designed as a townhouse
dwelling as defined in this section.
   xxx.   Dwelling - Single-Family. A structure containing only one (1)
dwelling unit.
   yyy.   Dwelling - Two-Family. A structure containing two (2) dwelling units,
each with a separate entrance.
   zzz.   Dwelling - Townhouse or Rowhouse. A structure consisting of three (3)
or more dwelling units, which are connected by party walls. A townhouse or
rowhouse is designed with no other dwelling or portion of other dwelling,
directly above or below, where each unit has a separate exterior entrance and
direct ground level access to the outdoors with no opening between units. The
dwelling does not include two-family or multifamily dwellings and is also
referred to as single family attached dwelling.
   aaaa.   Easement. An authorization grant by a property owner for the use by
another of any designed part of his property for a clearly specified purpose
(s).
   bbbb.   Eave. The projecting lower edges of a roof overhanging the wall of a
structure.
   cccc.   Educational Facility - Primary or Secondary. A public, private, or
parochial facility that offers instruction at the preschool, elementary, junior
high, and/or high school levels.
   dddd.   Educational Facility - University. A facility for post-secondary
higher learning that grants associate or bachelor degrees. The institution may
also have research facilities and/or professional schools that grant master and
doctoral degrees. Educational facilities - university include ancillary uses
such as dormitories, cafeterias, restaurants, retail sales of educational
supplies, and similar uses.
   eeee.   Educational Facility - Vocational. A facility that offers
instruction in industrial, clerical, computer, managerial, automotive, repair
(electrical, plumbing, carpentry, etc.), or commercial skills, or a business
conducted as a commercial enterprise, such as a driving school or school for
general educational development. Educational facility - vocational also applies
to privately operated schools that do not offer a complete educational
curriculum.
   ffff.   Encroachment. The extension or placement of any structure, or a
component of such, into a required setback.
   gggg.   Engineer (Design). Professional engineer hired by a developer/
private party for the purposes of designing a particular project.
   hhhh.   Engineer (Town). Professional engineer or engineering firm employed
by the Town of Dyer either as a Town employee or as a consulting engineer.
   iiii.   Escrow. A deposit of cash with the Town Council and held by the
Clerk-Treasurer in lieu of an amount required and still in force on a
performance or maintenance bond.
   jjjj.   Final Plat. The map, drawing or plan described in this ordinance of
a subdivision and any accompanying material submitted to the Commission for
secondary approval, and which, if approved and signed by the designated
officials, may be submitted to the County Recorder for recording.
   kkkk.   Exterior Stairwell. One or more flights of stairs, and the necessary
landings and platforms connecting them, to form a continuous passage from the
entry way of a floor or level to another, located on the exterior of a
principal building.
   llll.   Farmers' Market. A temporary use of land and/or structures for the
sale of a variety of fresh fruits and vegetables, and other locally produced
farm and food products directly to consumers from two (2) or more farmers or
vendors that have taken such items on consignment for retail sale.
   mmmm.   Fence. A structure used as a boundary, screen, separation, means of
privacy, protection or confinement, and is constructed of wood, plastic, metal,
masonry, and similar materials and is used as a barrier and/or boundary.
   nnnn.   Fence - Open. A fence that has, over its entirety, fifty percent
(50%) or more of the superficial surface consisting of regularly distributed
openings.
   oooo.   Fence - Solid. A fence that has, over its entirety, no distributed
openings. A shadowbox design fence is considered a solid fence. A chain link
fence with slats is not considered a solid fence.
   pppp.   Financial Institution. A bank, savings and loan, credit union, or
mortgage office. Financial institutions do not include currency exchanges and
pay day loan establishments that exchange common currencies, sell money orders,
issue cashier's checks, and cash checks as its principal business activity, or
provide loans to individuals in exchange for receiving personal checks or the
original title to the borrower's motor vehicle as collateral respectively.
   qqqq.   Flood or Spot Light. Any light fixture or lamp that incorporates a
reflector or a refractor to concentrate the light output into a directed beam
in a particular direction.
   rrrr.   Flood Hazard Areas. Those flood plains which have not been
adequately protected from flooding by the Regulatory Flood by means of dikes,
levees, or reservoirs, and are shown on the Floodway-Flood Boundary Maps of the
Federal Insurance Administration or maps provided to the Commission from the
Indiana Department of Natural Resources.
   ssss.   Flood Plains. The area adjoining the river or stream which has been
or may hereafter be covered by flood water from the Regulatory Flood.
   tttt.   Flood Protection Grade. The elevation of the lowest point around the
perimeter of a building at which flood waters may enter the interior of the
building.
   uuuu.   Floodway Fringe. Those portions of the flood hazard areas lying
outside the floodway, shown on the Floodway-Flood Boundary Maps of the Federal
Insurance Administration.
   vvvv.   Foundations. The supporting member of a wall or structure.
   wwww.   Funeral Home. An establishment that prepares the dead for burial
display and for rituals before burial or cremation, including chapels for the
display of the deceased and the conducting of rituals before burial or
cremation, and crematoriums.
   xxxx.   Garage. A structure, either attached or detached, used for the
parking and storage of motor vehicles by a resident.
   yyyy.   Gas Station. A business where fuel for vehicles are stored and
dispersed from fixed equipment into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles. This may
also include ancillary retail uses, one automatic car wash facility (one
stall), and solar and/or electric charging stations.
   zzzz.   Gazebo. A freestanding outdoor structure designed for recreational
use and not for habitation.
   aaaaa.   Glare. Light emitting from a luminaire with an intensity great
enough to reduce a viewers' ability to see, cause discomfort, and, in extreme
cases, cause momentary blindness.
   bbbbb.   Grading. The reshaping of natural land contours, using natural land
materials such as soil, gravel, sand, black dirt, etc., for the purpose of
eliminating erosion or sedimentation problems, creating or improving surface
drainage, providing for the natural aesthetic contouring of property, or to
accommodate a building plan by making minor changes in land elevation.
   ccccc.   Green Roof. An assembly of interacting components designed to
waterproof and normally insulate a building's top surface that includes, by
design, vegetation and related landscaping elements.
   ddddd.   Greenhouse/Nursery. A business where flowers, shrubbery,
vegetables, trees, and other horticultural and floricultural products are grown
and sold, and may include gardening and landscape supplies and products, such
as hardware, garden tools and utensils, and paving stone and bricks.
   eeeee.   Greenhouse (Accessory). A structure constructed chiefly of glass,
glasslike or translucent material, cloth, or lath, which is devoted to the
protection or cultivation of flowers or other tender plants.
   fffff.   Ground Floor. The story closest to and above grade along the
street.
   ggggg.   Governing Body. The Dyer Town Council.
   hhhhh.   Health Club. An establishment that provides health and fitness
facilities such as running, jogging, aerobics, weight lifting, court sports,
and swimming, and may include ancillary facilities such as locker rooms,
showers, massage rooms, saunas, sales of related health equipment and clothing,
juice bars, and other related uses.
   iiiii.   Health Department and Health Officer. The agency and person
designated by the County to administer the health regulations within the
County's jurisdiction.
   jjjjj.   Heavy Retail and Rental. Retail and/or rental establishments that
typically have permanent outdoor storage areas, and/or partially enclosed
structures including, but not limited to, large-scale home improvement centers,
industrial supply stores, and lumberyards. Heavy retail and rental
establishments may include ancillary service uses, such as equipment repair, as
part of the principal retail and rental use.
   kkkkk.   Hedge. A row of closely planted shrubs, bushes, or any kind of
plant forming a boundary.
   lllll.   Helipad. An area of land or portion of a structure used for the
landing and take-off of helicopters with no facilities for service or permanent
basing of such aircraft.
   mmmmm.   Home Occupation. Any occupation or profession conducted within a
dwelling unit and its permitted accessory structures that is clearly incidental
and secondary to the use of such buildings.
   nnnnn.   Hospital. Facilities for primary health services and medical or
surgical care to people, primarily in-patients, and including as an integral
part of the institution, related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient
facilities, or educational facilities. Hospital includes, but is not limited
to, sanitariums and any other medical facility where intensive medical
treatment, including in-patient residential care, is provided.
   ooooo.   Hotel/Motel. A facility that provides sleeping accommodations for a
fee and customary lodging services. Related ancillary uses include, but are not
be limited to, conference and meeting rooms, restaurants, and recreational
facilities for the use of guests.
   ppppp.   Industrial - Light. The manufacturing from previously prepared
materials of finished products or parts, including processing, fabrication,
assembly, treatment, and packaging of such products, and incidental storage,
sales, and distribution of such products, provided all industrial activities
are contained entirely within a building and noise, odor, smoke, heat, glare,
and vibration resulting from the industrial activity are confined entirely
within the building. A light industrial use may also include a showroom and
ancillary sales of products related to the items manufactured or stored on-
site.
   qqqqq.   Indiana Code. The codification of all Indiana statutes in effect.
(Abbreviated as I.C.)
   rrrrr.   Joint Ownership. Joint ownership among persons means the same
owner, "constructive ownership" for the purpose of imposing subdivision
regulations.
   sssss.   Live Performance Venue. A facility for the presentation of live
performances, including musical acts, theatrical plays or acts, stand-up
comedy, magic, dance clubs, and disc jockey performances using vinyl records,
compact discs, computers, or digital music players. A live performance venue
does not include any adult entertainment.
   ttttt.   Live/Work Dwelling. A structure combining a dwelling unit with a
non-residential use permitted in the zoning district where the structure is
located and that is principally used by one or more of the residents. A live/
work dwelling may also include the combination of a dwelling unit with arts-
related activities, such as painting, photography, sculpture, music and film,
principally used by one or more of the residents. Live/work dwellings are
subject to the standards for the individual uses contained within this
ordinance. Any area used for commercial space in a live/work dwelling cannot be
converted to residential living space if the commercial component is no longer
operating.
   uuuuu.   Lot. A subdivided and recorded parcel of land of at least
sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements for use, coverage, and
area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as are herein required.
Such lot must have frontage on an improved public street, or on an approved
private street, and may consist of:
      (1)   A single lot of record.
      (2)   A combination of complete lots of record, or complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record.
   vvvvv.   Massage Service Establishment. An establishment where, for any form
of consideration, massage, alcohol rub, fomentation, electric or magnetic
treatment, or similar treatment or manipulation of the human body is offered by
a licensed massage therapist as required by the State of Indiana. For the
purposes of this definition, the following medical practices are not considered
a massage service establishment, but are part of a medical/dental clinic per
this ordinance: massage treatment administered by licensed medical
practitioners, licensed physical therapists, chiropractors, acupuncturist or
other holistic medicine, or similar professional medical person licensed by the
state. A massage service establishment does not include ancillary services
provided as part of a health club, school, or full-service spa or salon.
   wwwww.   Major Subdivisions. Any subdivision not classified as a minor
subdivision, including, but not limited to, subdivision of four (4) or more
lots, or any size subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the
local governmental facilities, to the creation of any public improvements.
   xxxxx.   Map. A representation of a part or the whole of the earth's
surface, in signs and symbols, on a plane surface, at an established scale,
with a method of orientation indicated.
   yyyyy.   Marker. A stake, pipe, rod, nail, or any other object which is
intended to be a permanent point for record purposes.
   zzzzz.   Master Plan. See Comprehensive Plan.
   aaaaaa.   Minor Subdivision. Any subdivision containing not more than three
(3) lots fronting on existing street which is an improved right-of-way
maintained by the Town involving no street or the extension of municipal
facilities, or the creation of any public improvements. A minor subdivision may
not adversely affect the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property or
conflict with any provision or portion of the Comprehensive Plan, Official Map,
Zoning Ordinance, or this ordinance.
   bbbbbb.   Model Home. A dwelling unit used initially for display purposes
which typifies the kind of units that will be constructed in the subdivision.
   cccccc.   Monument. A physical structure which marks the location of a
corner or other survey point.
   dddddd.   Medical/Dental Clinic. A facility operated by one or more
physicians, dentists, chiropractors, psychiatrists, physiotherapists, or other
licensed practitioners of the healing arts for the examination and treatment of
persons solely on an outpatient basis. Medical clinics also include alternative
medicine clinics, such as acupuncture and holistic therapies, methadone
clinics, and physical therapy offices for physical rehabilitation.
   eeeeee.   Medical Marijuana Dispensary. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is registered by the State of Indiana to acquire
medical cannabis from a registered cultivation center for the purpose of
dispensing cannabis, paraphernalia, or related supplies and educational
materials to registered qualifying patients. Medical use cannabis means the
acquisition, administration, delivery, possession, transfer, transportation, or
use of cannabis to treat or alleviate a registered qualifying patient's
debilitating medical condition or symptoms associated with the patient's
debilitating medical condition.
   ffffff.   Micro-Brewery. A facility for the production and packaging of malt
beverages of alcoholic content for wholesale distribution, with a capacity of
less than fifteen thousand (15,000) barrels per year and may include a tap
room. A tap room allows customers to taste samples of products manufactured on
site and purchase related sales items. Sales of alcohols manufactured outside
of the facility are prohibited. A separate liquor license is required for sales
of alcohols manufactured on-site. (See "light industrial" for capacity in
excess of fifteen thousand (15,000) barrels per year.)
   gggggg.   Micro-Distillery. A facility for the production and packaging of
alcoholic beverages in quantities not to exceed twenty- five thousand (25,000)
gallons per year and may include a tasting room. A tasting room allows
customers to taste samples of products manufactured on site and purchase
related sales items. Sales of alcohols manufactured outside of the facility are
prohibited. A separate liquor license is required for sales of alcohols
manufactured on-site.
   hhhhhh.   Micro-Winery. A facility for the production and packaging of any
alcoholic beverages obtained by the fermentation of the natural contents of
fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages when fortified
by the addition of alcohol or spirits, in quantities not to exceed twenty-five
thousand (25,000) gallons per year and may include a tasting room. A tasting
room allows customers to taste samples of products manufactured on site and
purchase related sales items. A separate liquor license is required for sales
of alcohols manufactured on-site.
   iiiiii.   Nonresidential Subdivision. A subdivision whose intended use is
other than residential, such as commercial or industrial. Such subdivision must
comply with the applicable provisions of these regulations.
   jjjjjj.   Off-Site. Any premises not located within the area of the property
to be subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision's approval.
   kkkkkk.   Official Map. The zoning map established by the Town pursuant to
law and any amendments or additions thereto adopted by the Town or additions
thereto resulting from the approval of subdivision plats by the Commission and
the subsequent filing of such approved plats.
   llllll.   Outdoor Dining. A seating area that is outdoors and contiguous to
a restaurant or bar, typically in addition to an indoor seating area. Outdoor
dining areas are also permitted on rooftops, when determined by the Town to be
structurally sound for such use.
   mmmmmm.   Outdoor Display and Sales Area. Part of a lot used for outdoor
sales and/or display of goods accessory to the principal use.
   nnnnnn.   Ordinance. Any legislative action, however denominated, of a local
government which has the force of law, including any amendments or repeal of
any ordinance.
   oooooo.   Owner. Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to the land sought
to be subdivided under these regulations.
   pppppp.   Parapet. The extension of a false front or wall above a roof-line.
   qqqqqq.   Parcel. A part or portion of land having a legal description
formally set forth in a conveyance together with the boundaries thereof, in
order to make possible its easy identification.
   rrrrrr.   Park/Playground. A noncommercial, public facility that serves the
recreational needs of residents and visitors. Park/playground includes, but is
not limited to, playgrounds, ballfields, football fields, soccer fields,
basketball courts, tennis courts, dog parks, skateboard parks, passive
recreation areas, and park district field houses, which include public indoor
recreation facilities run by the Town. Parks/playgrounds may also be associated
with schools.
   ssssss.   Parking Lot. An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, used for the storage of operable passenger motor vehicles, whether
for compensation or at no charge. With the exception of Town-owned parking
lots, all parking lots must be accessory to a principal use.
   tttttt.   Parking Structure. A structure of one or more levels or floors
used for the parking or storage of operable passenger motor vehicles, whether
for compensation or at no charge. With the exception of Town-owned parking
structures, all parking structures must be accessory to a principal use.
   uuuuuu.   Party Wall. A wall starting from the foundation and extending
continuously through all stories to or above the roof, that separates one
building from another, but is in joint use by each building.
   vvvvvv.   Patio. A hard surface designed and intended for recreational use
by people and not used as a sidewalk or parking space.
   wwwwww.   Pergola. A freestanding, open structure that forms a partially
shaded pedestrian walkway, passageway, or sitting area, and is constructed of a
semi-open roof and vertical posts that support cross-beams and a sturdy open
lattice. It may also be used as an extension of a building entry way.
   xxxxxx.   Perimeter Street. Any existing street to which the parcel of land
to be subdivided abuts on only one side.
   yyyyyy.   Person. A person includes a corporation, partnership and an
unincorporated association of persons such as a club.
   zzzzzz.   Personal Service Establishment. A business that provides frequent
or recurrent needed services of a personal nature. Typical uses include, but
are not limited to, beauty shops, barbershops, tanning salons, electronics
repair shops, nail salons, laundromats, dry cleaners, and tailors. Personal
service establishments do not include currency exchanges and pay day loan
establishments that exchange common currencies, sell money orders, issue
cashier's checks, and cash checks as its principal business activity, or
provide loans to individuals in exchange for receiving personal checks or the
original title to the borrower's motor vehicle as collateral respectively.
   aaaaaaa.   Place of Worship. A building, together with accessory structures
and uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious purposes and related
social events, and may include group housing for persons under religious vows
or orders. Places of worship may also include ancillary day care facilities
and/or classrooms for weekly religious instruction.
   bbbbbbb.   Plan Commission. That Commission established by the Town of Dyer
in accordance with I.C. 36-7-1-2.
   ccccccc.   Planned Unit Development. A means of land regulation which
permits a unified land development in a configuration and possibly a mix of
uses not otherwise permitted "as of right" under the Town Zoning Ordinance, but
requiring under that ordinance or a special ordinance a special review and
approval process.
   ddddddd.   Primary Approval. An approval (or approval with conditions
imposed) granted to a subdivision by the Commission after having determined in
a public hearing that the subdivision complies with the standards prescribed in
this ordinance (per I.C. 36-7-4-700 series: Subdivision Control).
   eeeeeee.   Primary Plat. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in
these regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision
to be submitted to the Commission for approval which include full engineering
drawings.
   fffffff.   Porch. An architectural feature that projects from the exterior
wall of a structure, has direct access to the street level of the building, and
is covered by a roof.
   ggggggg.   Principal Use Building. A building in which the principal use of
the lot or parcel is conducted. Standards recognized by the Indiana
Administrative Building Council determine whether a given structure constitutes
one or more buildings in cases where ambiguities exist.
   hhhhhhh.   Public Improvement. Any drainage ditch, street, highway, parkway,
sidewalk, pedestrian-way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement,
or other facility used by the general public and not intended for private use.
   iiiiiii.   Rear Yard. A yard defined herein, encompassing the horizontal
spaces between the nearest foundation of a building to a rear lot line and that
rear lot line, extending to the side lines of the lot, and measured as the
shortest distance from that foundation to the real lot line. The rear yard of a
corner lot is the yard at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
   jjjjjjj.   Railroad Right-of-Way. A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary
facilities for track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms,
stations, train sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops, or
water towers.
   kkkkkkk.   Real Estate Project Sales Office/Model Unit. A residential unit
temporarily used for display purposes as an example of dwelling units available
for sale or rental in a residential development and/or sales or rental offices
for dwellings within the development.
   lllllll.   Reception/Banquet Facility. A facility that provides hosting and
rental services of a banquet hall or similar for private events including, but
not limited to, wedding receptions, holiday parties, and fundraisers, with food
and beverages that are prepared and served on-site or by a caterer to invited
guests during intermittent dates and hours of operation. Live entertainment may
be provided as an ancillary use as part of an event. A reception facility is
not operated as a restaurant with regular hours of operation.
   mmmmmmm.   Recreation, Indoor. A facility for spectator and participatory
uses conducted within an enclosed building, such as sports courts, bowling
alleys, tumbling centers, skating centers, roller rinks, movie theaters, pool
halls, and sporting exhibitions. An indoor recreation facility may include
ancillary uses, such as restaurants, for the use of patrons. Indoor recreation
facilities do not include public indoor recreation facilities that are run by
the Town.
   nnnnnnn.   Recreation, Outdoor. A facility for spectator and participatory
uses conducted outdoors or within partially enclosed structures, such as sports
courts, batting cages, mini-golf, and sporting exhibitions. An outdoor
recreation facility may include ancillary uses, such as restaurants, for the
use of patrons. Outdoor recreation facilities do not include live performance
venues.
   ooooooo.   Registered Land Surveyor. A land surveyor properly licensed and
registered or through reciprocity permitted to practice in the State of
Indiana.
   ppppppp.   Registered Professional Engineer. An engineer properly licensed
and registered in the State of Indiana or permitted to practice in Indiana
through reciprocity.
   qqqqqqq.   Regulatory Flood. That flood having a peak discharge which can be
equaled or exceeded on the average of once in one hundred (100) year period, as
calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); this flood is equivalent to a flood
having probability of occurrence of one percent (1%) in any given year.
   rrrrrrr.   Regulatory Flood Elevation. The maximum elevation, as established
by FEMA, reached by the regulatory flood at the location in question relevant
to approval of a given subdivision under consideration.
   sssssss.   Regulatory Floodway. The channel of a river or stream and those
portions of the flood plains adjoining the channel which are reasonably
required to efficiently carry and discharge the peak flow of the Regulatory
Flood of any river or stream shown on the Floodway-Flood Boundary Maps of the
Federal Insurance Administration.
   ttttttt.   Restrictive Covenants. Regulations of various kinds on the usage
of lots or parcels of land within a subdivision which are proposed by the
subdivision, and in the case of public health, safety, and welfare by the
Commissions, that are recorded with the plat and run with the land.
   uuuuuuu.   Re-subdivisions. A change in a map of an approved or recorded
subdivision plat.
   vvvvvvv.   Right-of-Way. A strip of land occupied or intended to be
occupied, by a street, pedestrian-way, crosswalk, railroad, electric
transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer
main, special landscaping, or for another special use. The usage of term
"right-of-way" for land platting purposes means that every right-of-way
hereafter established and shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct
from the lots or parcels adjoining such right-of-way and not included within
the dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Rights-of-way intended for
streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, screening or
special landscaping, or any other use involving maintenance by a public agency
must be dedicated to public use by the subdivider on whose plat such right-of-
way is established.
   wwwwwww.   Research and Development (R&D). A facility where research and
development are conducted in industries that include, but are not limited to,
biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, medical instrumentation or supplies,
communication, and information technology, electronics and instrumentation, and
computer hardware and software. Research and development does not involve the
manufacture, fabrication, processing, or sale of products.
   xxxxxxx.   Residential Care Facility. A group care facility licensed by the
state for 24-hour medical or non-medical care of persons in need of personal
services, supervision, or assistance essential for sustaining the activities of
daily living, or for the protection of the individual. A residential care
facility includes nursing homes, assisted living, hospices, and continuum of
care facilities.
   yyyyyyy.   Restaurant. An establishment where food and/or beverages are
provided to the public, which may be offered for on premises consumption by
seated patrons, delivery, carry-out, or a combination of such. If the
establishment serves alcoholic beverages, a full selection of food must also be
prepared for primarily on- premise consumption by seated patrons. Live
entertainment may be provided as an ancillary use to a restaurant.
   zzzzzzz.   Retail Goods Establishment. A commercial enterprise that provides
physical goods, products or merchandise directly to the consumer, where such
goods are typically available for immediate purchase and removal from the
premises by the purchaser. A retail goods establishment does not include
auction houses, antique shops, consignment shops, or secondhand goods dealer,
each of which are defined separately.
   aaaaaaaa.   Roofline. The top edge of a roof or building parapet, whichever
is higher, excluding any cupolas, pylons, chimneys or minor projections.
   bbbbbbbb.   Sale or Lease. Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or
any possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise,
intestate succession, or transfer of an interest in a subdivision or part
thereof, whether by metes and bounds, deeds, contract, plat, map, lease,
devise, intestate, succession, or other written instrument.
   cccccccc.   Same Ownership. Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm,
entity, partnership, or unincorporated association; or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities, or unincorporated associations in
which a stockholder, partner, or associate, or member of his family owns an
interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity, or unincorporated
association.
   dddddddd.   Screening. Either (a) a strip of at least ten (10') feet wide,
densely planted (or having equivalent natural growth) with shrubs or trees at
least four (4') feet high at the time of planting, of a type that will form a
year-round dense screen at least six (6') feet high; or (b) an opaque wall or
barrier or uniformly painted fence at least six (6') feet high. Either (a) or
(b) must be maintained in good condition at all times and may have no signs
affixed to or hung in relation to the outside thereof except as permitted or
required under the Zoning Ordinance. Where required by the Zoning Ordinance, a
screen must be installed along or within the lines of a plot as a protection
for adjoining or nearby properties. Earth berms may be incorporated as part of
such screening measures where appropriate.
   eeeeeeee.   Satellite Dish Antenna. A dish antenna designed for transmitting
signals to a receiver or receiving station or for receiving television, radio,
data, communication or other signals from other antennas, satellites or other
services.
   ffffffff.   Secondary Approval. The stage of applications for formal Plan
Commission approval of a final plat of a subdivision the construction of which
has been completed or substantially completed which, if approved and signed by
the designated officials, may be submitted to the County Recorder for filing.
   gggggggg.   Secondhand Goods Dealer. A retail establishment engaged in the
sale of goods and merchandise, the majority of which have been previously owned
and either do not have value as collectibles or are intended for everyday use
or wear.
   hhhhhhhh.   Self-Service Storage Facility. A facility for the storage of
personal property where individual renters control and access individual
storage spaces. Ancillary retail sales of related items, such as moving
supplies, and offices may also be included. Self-storage facilities do not
include any outdoor storage.
   iiiiiiii.   Sketch Plan. The initially submitted graphic representation of a
proposed subdivision, drawn to the approximate scale, whether superimposed upon
a print of a topographic survey or presented in any other suitable graphic
medium or form acceptable to the Commission. Drawing or drawings indicating the
proposed manner of layout of the subdivision meeting the conditions of the
subdivision ordinance to be submitted to the Commission for primary approval.
   jjjjjjjj.   Special Landscaping. Areas of tree planting, shrubs, or other
landscape feature serving a public purpose and maintained by the Town. (See
also Buffer Landscaping and Screening.)
   kkkkkkkk.   State Acts. Such legislative acts of the State of Indiana as
they affect these regulations.
   llllllll.   State Plan Coordinates System. A system of plan coordinates,
based on the Transverse Mercator Projection for the Western Zone of Indiana,
established by the United States Coast and Geodetic Survey for the State of
Indiana.
   mmmmmmmm.   Street, Public. All major secondary and minor streets which are
shown on the subdivision plat and are to be dedicated for public use.
   nnnnnnnn.   Street, Approved. Any street, whether public or private, meeting
standards and specifications of the Town. Specific street classifications are
defined in Section 1 of the Design Standards for Improvements in the Town of
Dyer, in the attached appendix to Ord. 2021-30.
   oooooooo.   Structure. Anything constructed or erected that requires
location on or in the ground or is attached to something having a location on
or in the ground.
   pppppppp.   Subdivider. Any person, or his legally designated Attorney-in-
Fact by a Power of Attorney properly executed and recorded in the Miscellaneous
Records of Lake County Indiana, who: (1), having a proprietary interest in
land, causes it, directly or indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision; or
who (2) directly sells, leases, or develops, or offers to sell, lease, or
develop, or advertise for sale, lease, or development, any interest, lot,
parcel site, unit, or plat in a subdivision; or who (3) engages directly, or
through an agent, in the business of selling, leasing, developing, or offering
for sale, lease, or development a subdivision of any interest, lot, parcel
site, unit, or plat in a subdivision; or (4) is directly or indirectly
controlled by, or under direct, or indirect common control with any of the
foregoing.
   qqqqqqqq.   Subdivision. The division of a parcel of land into one (1) or
more lots for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development. If
a new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land is considered to be
a subdivision. The term "subdivision" includes re-subdivision and; when
appropriate to the context, relates to the process of subdividing or to land
being subdivided.
   rrrrrrrr.   Shed. An accessory structure, often purchased pre-built or as a
kit in pre-fabricated sections, that is not designed to be served by heat or
plumbing and does not need to be placed on a permanent foundation. A "shed" is
typically intended to store lawn, garden, or recreational equipment.
   ssssssss.   Sidewalk. An improved surface, the principal purpose of which is
a pedestrian walkway.
   tttttttt.   Specialty Food Service. A business that specializes in the
production and/or sale of specialty food products, such as a bakery, meat
market, coffee roasters, catering business, or fishmonger, and may offer areas
for accessory retail sales of or restaurants that serve the products processed
on-site. Specialty food service also includes preparation, processing, canning
or packaging of food products where all processing is completely enclosed and
there are no outside impacts.
   uuuuuuuu.   Stacking Space. A space specifically designed and designated as
a waiting area for vehicles patronizing a drive-through facility or service
bay.
   vvvvvvvv.   Stoop. An exterior floor typically, constructed of stone,
concrete, and/or masonry, with a finished floor elevation higher than the
adjacent ground level, often with steps leading up to it, and utilized
primarily as an access platform to a structure. A "stoop" may be roofed and
designed with railings, but cannot be enclosed. A "stoop" is also referred to
as a portico.
   wwwwwwww.   Storage Yard (Outdoor). The storage of material outdoors as a
principal use of the lot for more than twenty-four (24) hours.
   xxxxxxxx.   Subdivision Plat. A map indicating the subdivision or re-
subdivision of land filed or intended to be filed of record with the County
Recorder.
   yyyyyyyy.   Temporary Mobile Food Sales. A truck or trailer used for the
preparation and service of food served from the vehicle.
   zzzzzzzz.   Temporary Outdoor Entertainment/Promotional Event. A temporary
live entertainment event, such as the performance of live music, revue, or play
within an outdoor space. Temporary outdoor entertainment event includes
fireworks shows, carnivals/circuses, temporary worship services, and others.
   aaaaaaaaa.   Temporary Outdoor Sales. Temporary uses, including temporary
structures, where goods are sold, such as consignment auctions, arts and crafts
fairs, flea markets, rummage sales, temporary vehicle sales and holiday sales,
such as Christmas tree lots and pumpkin sales lots. This category comprises
only outdoor sales: (1) by a retail goods establishment when such goods are
part of the establishment's regular items offered for purchase; or (2) by a
civic, religious or nonprofit organization for fundraising purposes.
   bbbbbbbbb.   Temporary Outdoor Storage Container. Temporary self-storage
containers delivered to a residence or business owner to store belongings, and
then picked up and returned to a warehouse until called for.
   ccccccccc.   Temporary Pop-Up Business. Temporary use of a storefront or
other commercial space for a non-residential use, such as retail, restaurant,
or art galleries.
   ddddddddd.   Temporary Improvement. Improvements built and maintained by a
subdivider during construction of the subdivision and intended to be replaced
by a permanent improvement.
   eeeeeeeee.   Temporary Turnaround. Turnaround improvements at the ends of
stub streets intended to be replaced when the adjoining area is developed and
the through street connection is made.
   fffffffff.   Temporary Structure. Any structure that is not permanently
located, placed, or affixed in the place where it is or where it is intended to
be placed.
   ggggggggg.   Transparency. The total area of clear glass within windows and
doors, which is typically expressed as a percentage of the total facade by
story.
   hhhhhhhhh.   Tobacco, Electronic Smoking Device, or Drug Paraphernalia. 
      (1)   Any device intended or designed primarily for use by individuals
for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco, notwithstanding that the device may
also be used for the smoking or ingestion of marijuana, hashish, hashish oil,
cocaine or any other "controlled substance," examples of such devices include,
but are not limited to: "pipes," "bongs," "hookahs," "vaporizers," "roach
clips," "electric pipes," "buzz bombs," "blunts" or similar devices;
      (2)   Any equipment, product, or material that is modified for making,
using, or concealing illegal drugs such as cocaine, heroin, marijuana, and
methamphetamine;
      (3)   Cartridges, cartomizers, e-liquid, smoke juice, tips, atomizers,
electronic smoking device batteries, electronic smoking device chargers, and
any other item specifically designed for the preparation, charging, or use of
electronic smoking devices;
      (4)   An electronic smoking device.
   iiiiiiiii.   Tobacco or Smoke Shop. Any store, stand, booth, or concession
that devotes thirty percent (30%) or more of its display floor area to tobacco
products, or to the display and sale of tobacco, electronic smoking devices, or
drug paraphernalia to purchasers for consumption or use. This classification of
use does not include medical cannabis dispensaries.
   jjjjjjjjj.   Tobacco Product.
      (1)   Any product containing tobacco leaf including, but not limited to,
cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, hookah tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco,
dipping tobacco, bidis, or any other preparation of tobacco; and
      (2)   Any product or formulation of matter containing biologically active
amounts of nicotine that is manufactured, sold, offered for sale, or otherwise
distributed with the expectation that the product or matter will be introduced
into the human body, but does not include any product specifically approved by
the United States Food and Drug Administration for use in treating nicotine or
tobacco dependence.
   kkkkkkkkk.   Utility. Facilities that produce and/or transmit basic
services, such as electricity, gas, sewer, or water, including largescale
developments such as electric or gas generation plants, electrical substations,
high voltage transmission lines, and water towers and tanks. Utilities do not
include public works facilities.
   lllllllll.   Vehicle Dealership. An establishment that sells or leases new
or used automobiles and recreational vehicles. A vehicle dealership may
maintain an inventory of the vehicles for sale or lease either on-site or at a
nearby location, and may provide on-site facilities for the repair and service
of the types of vehicles sold or leased by the dealership.
   mmmmmmmmm.   Vehicle Operations Facility. A facility for the dispatch,
storage, and maintenance of emergency medical care vehicles, taxicabs, school
buses, and livery vehicles. Motor vehicle operations facility does not include
a public works or public safety facility, where vehicles for fire, police or
other municipal departments are dispatched, stored, and/or maintained.
   nnnnnnnnn.   Vehicle Rental. An establishment that rents automobiles and
vans, including incidental parking and servicing of rental vehicles. A motor
vehicle rental establishment may maintain an inventory of the vehicles for sale
or lease either on-site or at a nearby location, and may provide on-site
facilities for the repair and service of the vehicles sold or leased by the
dealership.
   ooooooooo.   Vehicle Repair - Major. A business that provides services in
engine rebuilding, major reconditioning of worn or damaged motor vehicles,
motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles (ATV), recreational vehicles and trailers,
towing and collision service, including body, frame or fender straightening or
repair, and painting of motor vehicles, and may include minor auto repair
services.
   ppppppppp.   Vehicle Repair - Minor. A business the provides services in
minor repairs to motor vehicles, motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles (ATV)
vehicles, including repair or replacement of cooling, electrical, fuel and
exhaust systems, brake adjustments, replacement tires, realigning and repairs,
wheel servicing, alignment and balancing, repair and replacement of shock
absorbers, and replacement or adjustment of mufflers and tail pipes, hoses,
belts, light bulbs, fuses, windshield wipers/wiper blades, grease retainers,
wheel bearings, and the like.
   qqqqqqqqq.   Warehouse and Distribution. An enclosed facility for the
storage and distribution of manufactured products, supplies, and/or equipment.
   rrrrrrrrr.   Wholesale Establishment. A business where goods are sold to
either retailers, or to industrial, commercial, institutional, or other
professional business users, or to other wholesalers and related subordinated
services.
   sssssssss.   Wireless Telecommunications. Towers, antennas, and facilities
used to transmit and receive radio-frequency signals, microwave signals, or
other signals that facilitate wireless telecommunications. The following
definitions describe the wireless telecommunications infrastructure described
within the general definition for wireless telecommunications:
      (1)   Antenna. A specific device, the surface of which is used to
transmit and/or receive radio-frequency signals, microwave signals, or other
signals transmitted to or from other antennas. This does not include satellite
dish antenna.
      (2)   Tower. A structure designed and constructed to support one or more
wireless telecommunications antenna and including all appurtenant devices
attached to it. Wireless telecommunications tower is inclusive of accompanying
facilities, which are un-staffed structures used to house and protect the
equipment necessary for processing telecommunications signals.
   ttttttttt.   Yard. All areas of the property not covered with structures,
parking areas or other hard surfaces.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2009-18, 11-18-09; Am. Ord. No. 2021-
30, § 1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 10-121 Establishment of Districts - Provisions for Official Zoning Map.
   a.   Official Zoning Map. The Town is divided into zones, or districts, as
shown on the Official Zoning Map which, together with all explanatory matter
thereon, is adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this ordinance.
      The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the
President of the Town Council attested by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, and bearing
the seal of the Town under the following words: “This is to certify that this
is the Official Zoning Map referred to in Section 2 of Ordinance No. 83-46 as
amended of the Town of Dyer, State of Indiana”, together with the date of the
adoption of this ordinance.
      If, in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance and I.C., 1971, §
36-7-4-607, et seq., changes are made in district boundaries or other matters
portrayed on the Official Zoning Map, such changes shall be entered on the
Official Zoning Map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Town
Council, with an entry on the Official Zoning Map as follows: “On (date), by
official action of the Town Council, the following (change) changes were made
in the Official Zoning Map: (brief description of nature of change)”, which
entry shall be signed by the President of the Town Council and attested by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. No amendment to this ordinance which involves matter
portrayed on the Official Zoning Map shall become effective until after such
change and entry has been made on said map.
      No changes of any nature shall be made in the Official Zoning Map or
matter shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this
ordinance. Any unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons
shall be considered a violation of this ordinance and punishable as provided
under Section
10-142.
      Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning
Map which may from time to time be made or published, the Official Zoning Map
which shall be located in the office of the Town Clerk- Treasurer shall be the
final authority as to the current zoning status of land and water area
buildings, and other structures in the Town.
   b.   Changes in the Official Zoning Map - Procedures. A change in the
Official Zoning Map shall be initiated by filing a petition and payment of the
necessary fee with the office of the Zoning Administrator in a form and manner
set out in Indiana Code and the Rules of the Dyer Plan Commission. A petition
for zone change requires a public hearing and due notice to interested parties
as described in IC, 36-7-4-604 and the Rules of the Plan Commission. At said
public hearing, the Plan Commission shall consider petitions for zone change
and shall pay reasonable regard to the criteria established in IC, 36-7-4-603,
before making a recommendation, duly certified as required by Indiana Code, to
the Dyer Town Council. In considering a petition for zone change, the Plan
Commission or the Town Council may allow or require written commitments to be
executed by the petitioner in a form and manner set out in the Rules of the
Dyer Plan Commission
   c.   Replacement of Official Zoning Map. In the event that the Official
Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because
of the nature or number of changes and additions, the Town Council may by
resolution adopt a new Official Zoning Map which shall supersede the prior
Official Zoning Map. The new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other
errors or omissions in the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction
shall have the effect of amending the original Official Zoning Map or any
subsequent amendment thereof. The new Official Zoning Map shall be identified
by the signature of the President of the Town Council attested by the Town
Clerk-Treasurer, and bearing the seal of the Town under the following words:
“This is to certify that this Official Zoning Map supersedes and replaces the
Official Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of map being replaced) as part of
Ordinance 83-46, as amended, of the Town of Dyer, State of Indiana.”
      Unless the prior Official Zoning Map has been lost, or has been totally
destroyed, the prior map or any significant parts thereof remaining, shall be
preserved, together with all available records pertaining to its adoption or
amendment.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-122 Rules for Interpretation of District Boundaries.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   a.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center lines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such center lines.
   b.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines.
   c.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following Town limits shall be
construed as following such Town limits.
   d.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   e.   Boundaries indicated as following shore lines shall be construed as
moving with the actual shore line, and in the event of change in the shore line
shall be construed as moving with the actual shore line; boundaries indicated
as approximately following the center lines of streams, lakes, or other bodies
of water shall be construed to follow such center lines.
   f.   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features indicated
in subsections a. through e. above shall be so construed. Distance not
specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map shall be determined by the
scale of the map.
   g.   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map, or in other circumstances
not covered by subsections a. through f. above, the Plan Commission shall
interpret the district boundaries.
   h.   Where a district boundary line divides a lot or parcel of real estate
not platted, which was in single ownership at the time of passage of this
ordinance, the Board of Zoning Appeals may permit, as a special exception, the
extension of the regulations for either portion of the lot not to exceed fifty
(50) feet beyond the district line into the remaining portion of the lot.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-123 Application of District Regulations.
   The regulations set by this ordinance within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided:
   a.   No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   b.   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered
than herein required, or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this
ordinance:
      1.   To exceed the height or bulk;
      2.   To accommodate or house a great number of families;
      3.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      4.   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards, or
other open spaces.
   c.   No part of a yard, or other open space, or off-street parking or
loading space required or in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this ordinance, shall be included as part of a yard, open space,
or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building unless specifically allowed or required by the zoning district
regulations in which said building is located.
   d.   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this ordinance shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this ordinance shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this ordinance.
   e.   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the Town shall be
considered to be in the rural development, RD unless otherwise specifically
classified.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-124 Non-Conforming Lots, Non-Conforming Uses of Land, Non-Conforming
Structures, Non-Conforming Uses of Structures and Premises.
   a.   Intent. Within the districts established by this ordinance or
amendments that may later be adopted there exist:
      1.   Lots;
      2.   Structures;
      3.   Uses of land and structures;
which were lawful before this ordinance was passed or amended, but which would
be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this ordinance or
future amendment. It is the intent of this ordinance to permit these non-
conformities to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their
survival.
      Non-conforming uses are declared by this ordinance to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the districts involved. It is the intent of this
ordinance that non-conformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same district. A non-conforming use of a structure, a non-
conforming use of land, or a non-conforming use of structure and land in
combination shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of this ordinance
by attachment to a building or premises of additional signs intended to be seen
from off the premises.
      To avoid undue hardship nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this ordinance and upon which actual building
construction has been carried on diligently. Actual construction is defined to
include the placing of construction materials in permanent position and
fastened in a permanent manner. Where excavation or demolition or removal of an
existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such
excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction,
provided that work shall be carried on diligently.
   b.   Non-Conforming Lots of Record. In any district in which single-family
dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this ordinance, subject only to the limitations set
forth in Section
10-130, paragraph c, footnote 3. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not
of continuous frontage with other lots in the same ownership at the time of
adoption of this ordinance. This provision shall apply even though such lot
fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and requirements
other than these applying to area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform
to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located as set forth
in this ordinance. Variance of yard requirements shall be obtained only through
action of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      If two (2) or more lots or combination of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this ordinance, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the
requirements established for lot width and area, the lands involved shall be
considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this ordinance, and no
portion of said parcel shall be used or sold in a manner which diminishes
compliance with lot width and area requirements established by this ordinance,
nor shall any division of any parcel be made which creates a lot with width or
area below the requirements stated in this ordinance.
   c.   Non-Conforming Uses of Land (Or Land with Minor Structures Only). Where
at the time of passage of this ordinance lawful use of land exists which would
not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this ordinance, and where such
use involves no individual structure with a replacement cost exceeding two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), the use may be continued so long as
it remains otherwise lawful, provided:
      1.   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance.
      2.   No such non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance.
      3.   If any such non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than six (6) consecutive months or for eighteen (18) months
during any three-year period, (except when government action prohibit access to
the land) the land shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      4.   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
ordinance shall be erected in connection with such non-conforming use of land.
   d.   Non-Conforming Structures. Where a lawful structure exists at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance that could not be
built under the terms of this ordinance by reason of restrictions on use, area,
lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot, or other requirements
concerning the structure as set forth in the district regulations, such
structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions:
      1.   No such non-conforming structure may be enlarged, remodeled, or
altered in a way which increases its non-conformity, but any structure or
portion thereof may be altered to decrease its non-conformity.
      2.   Should such nonconforming structure be destroyed by any means to an
extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost at time of
destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this ordinance.
      3.   Should such structure be moved for any distance whatever, it shall
thereafter conform to the regulations for the district which it is located
after it is moved.
      4.   Should such non-conforming structure be remodeled to the extent of
more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost at the time of
remodeling, it shall not be remodeled except in conformity with the provisions
of this ordinance. The cost of remodeling shall be deemed to be cumulative and
each successive remodeling shall be added to the cost of prior remodeling
undertaken subsequent to the adoption of this ordinance.
   e.   Non-Conforming Uses of Structures and Premises in Combination. If
lawful use involving individual structures with a replacement cost of two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or more, or of structure and premises
in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
ordinance, that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this
ordinance, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this
ordinance in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      2.   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which was manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this ordinance, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
      3.   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which
a non-conforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations for the district, and the non- conforming use may not
thereafter be resumed.
      4.   When a non-conforming use of a structure, or structure and premises
in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six (6) consecutive months or
for eighteen (18) months during any three-year period (except when government
action prohibits access to the premises), the structure, or structure and
premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with
the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      5.   Where non-conforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal, or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
non-conforming status of the land. Destruction for the purpose of this
subsection is defined as damage to an extent of more than fifty percent (50%)
of the replacement cost at the time of destruction.
      6.   If a non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
non-conforming use becomes physically unsafe due to lack of repairs and
maintenance, and is declared by the Building Commissioner to be unsafe or
unlawful by reason of physical condition in accordance with the provisions of
I.C., 1971, § 36-7-9-1, et seq., and is either remodeled to an extent of more
than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost or is required to be
destroyed, it shall not be remodeled, restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      Nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official.
   f.   Uses Under Special Exception Provisions Not Non-Conforming Uses. Any
use which is permitted as a special exception or use variance in a district
under the terms of this ordinance shall not be deemed a non- conforming use in
such district, but shall without further action be considered a conforming use.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-125 Protection of Shoreland, Watercourses and Wetlands.
   a.   General.
      1.   The purpose of this section is to prevent and control water
pollution; protect spawning grounds, fish and aquatic life, and to preserve
shore cover and natural beauty.
      2.   All lakes, ponds, or flowages of one (1) acre or more shall be
considered as navigable for the purposes of this ordinance.
      3.   Rivers or streams shall be considered navigable for the purpose of
this ordinance if they are indicated as “continuous” on the United States
Geological Quadrangle Survey Maps.
      4.   The provisions of this section shall apply to the shorelands of all
navigable waters.
   b.   Setbacks From The Water.
      1.   For lots that abut on navigable waters all buildings and structures
except piers, marinas, boat houses and similar uses which require a lesser
setback as determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals, shall be set back at
least one hundred (100) feet from the high water line and elevated at least two
(2) feet above the experienced high water elevation.
      2.   Seepage, pits, and soil absorption fields shall be set back at least
fifty (50) feet from the normal high water elevation. The town engineer shall
determine the normal high water elevation or line where not established by the
current Flood Insurance Rate Maps. Furthermore, it shall be the duty of the
town engineer to determine that the design, location and construction of
private sewage disposal facilities are in conformation with applicable state
and municipal codes.
   c.   Filling, Grading and Lagooning.
      1.   A Certificate of Zoning Compliance shall be required for any filling
or grading:
         a.   Of the bed of a navigable body of water.
         b.   Of an area which is within three hundred (300) feet horizontal
distance of a stream, lake or pond and twelve thousand (12,000) feet of a lake
and which has surface drainage toward the water and which there is filling of
more than five hundred (500) square feet of any wetland which is contiguous to
the water. For purposes of this section a wetland shall be defined as any area
where groundwater is at or near the surface a substantial part of the year.
         c.   On slopes of twenty percent (20%) or more.
         d.   Of more than one thousand (1,000) square feet on slopes of twelve
(12%) - twenty (20%) percent.
         e.   Of more than two thousand (2,000) square feet on slopes of 12
percent (12%) or less.
      2.   A Certificate of Zoning Compliance shall be required before
constructing, or commencing work on any artificial water, canal ditch, lagoon,
pond, lake or similar waterway which is within five hundred (500) feet of the
high water mark of a navigable body of water or where the purpose is ultimate
connection conservation practices such as terraces, diversions and grassed
waterways which are used for sediment retardation.
      3.   In the event any lake, pond, stream, flowage, watercourse, or
wetland shall be under the jurisdiction of any state, county, or federal
agency, the applicant shall submit to the Zoning Administrator an appropriate
permit or approval from such agency as a condition of securing a Certificate of
Zoning Compliance.
      4.   In granting a Certificate of Zoning Compliance for filling, grading,
or lagooning the Zoning Administrator may attach the following conditions in
addition to those specified elsewhere in this ordinance:
         a.   The smallest amount of bare ground be exposed for the shortest
time feasible.
         b.   Temporary ground cover such as mulch be used and permanent cover
such as sod be planted.
         c.   Diversions, silting basins, terraces and other methods to trap
sediment be used.
         d.   Dredging to a firm bottom before filling.
         e.   Dredging be conducted in such a manner as to avoid creation of
fish trap conditions.
         f.   Fill is stabilized according to accepted engineering standards.
         g.   Fill will not restrict a floodway or destroy the storage capacity
of a flood plain.
         h.   Walls of a channel or artificial watercourse be stabilized to
prevent slumping.
         i.   Sides of channels or artificial watercourses be constructed with
side slopes of four (4) horizontal to one (1) vertical or flatter, unless
vertical bulkheading is provided or side slope stabilization is provided to the
satisfaction of the Town Engineer.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-126 Excavations.
   a.   The excavations from or deposits on the earth of rock, stone, gravel,
sand, earth, minerals, or building or constriction materials shall not be
construed to be a permitted use in any district established by this ordinance
unless and until a Certificate of Zoning Compliance shall first have been
secured therefor, except for the following defined extractions and deposits.
      1.   Excavations for the foundation or basement of any building or for a
swimming pool for which a Certificate of Zoning Compliance and a building
permit have been issued, or deposits on the earth of any building or
construction materials to be used in a structure for which such zoning permit
and building permit have been issued.
      2.   Grading of any parcel of land for a permitted use where no bank is
left standing and exposed of more than ten (10) feet in vertical height and
when less than one thousand (1,000) cubic yards of earth is removed from the
premises.
      3.   Grading in a subdivision which has been approved by the Plan
Commission in accordance with the Subdivision Ordinance and amendments thereto.
      4.   Excavations by any public agency or public utility, including the
Town of Dyer, for the installation, operation, inspection, repair or
replacement of any of its facilities.
   b.   Any quarry existing and operational as such on the effective date of
this ordinance shall obtain a new use permit and conform with the provisions of
this ordinance within one (1) year of the adoption of this ordinance.
   c.   Only the Plan Commission shall have the power to grant a Certificate of
Zoning Compliance, revocable and valid for specified periods of time, to permit
extractions from or deposits on the earth of rock, stone, gravel, sand, earth,
minerals, or building or construction materials, as set forth herein above.
   d.   The Zoning Administrator shall make such inspections as he deems
necessary or as are required by the Plan Commission to ensure that all work is
in accordance with the Certificate of Zoning Compliance. All inspection
services shall be paid for by the applicant in the amount established by
ordinance. The following information shall be submitted in electronic format
with the application for a Certificate of Zoning Compliance for excavation
operations including borrow pits, topsoil removal, and storage areas:
      1.   A map of existing conditions showing the lands proposed to be
included in the excavation area and the lands within one thousand (1,000) feet
on in all directions. This map shall show the boundaries of the excavation area
and existing conditions on the mapped lands including:
         a.   Existing contours (with a contour interval appropriate to the
site which accurately reflects the topographic condition);
         b.   Water bodies and drainage courses - depth of water table below
existing terrain;
         c.   Estimate of depth and extent of deposit;
         d.   The present use of adjoining lands (residential, commercial,
industrial, institutional, recreation, agricultural, etc.);
         e.   The present zoning classification of subject and adjoining lands
and setback requirements;
         f.   All publicly owned lands;
         g.   Public rights-of-way road types,
      h.   Easements and railroad lines.
   2.   A plan of operational areas showing:
         a.   Area proposed for excavation;
         b.   Area proposed for setting ponds and wash water outlets;
         c.   Areas proposed for processing facilities and storage;
         d.   Area proposed for production facilities (if any) for resources
related industry;
         e.   Area proposed for excavation entrance, office dispatcher
headquarters, off-street parking, and equipment storage.
      3.   A plan of excavation showing:
         a.   Division of the area proposed for excavation into one (1) or more
excavation units which are to be excavated and rehabilitated in sequences.
Estimated dates for the rehabilitation of the excavation units should be given;
         b.   Methods to be used to minimize the effect of erosion by wind and
water on the entire tract, such as the planting of ground cover vegetation;
         c.   Methods of screening the area of operations from view, such as
planting screens or the use of earth mounds;
         d.   The access or haul road system.
      4.   A conceptual plan of development for the rehabilitation and re-use
of the entire excavation area following excavation showing:
         a.   A proposed plan for landscape rehabilitation including grading,
drainage, planting, and similar appropriate installations;
         b.   The proposed water area (if any) resulting from excavation;
         c.   A proposed plan of functural re-use of the total excavation area
showing, diagrammatically, future locations of residential, commercial,
industrial, public, semi-public, and other land uses, if any, and the principal
elements of a future traffic circulation of system to service the area.
Sufficient characteristics of proposed development such as population density
ranges, types of commercial or industrial usage, and kinds of public areas.
      5.   A bond with surety satisfactory to the Council in the amount of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per acre of area proposed to be excavated which
shall run to the Town Council to insure the satisfactory completion of the
landscape rehabilitation shown in the plan of development following the
excavation process.
         The excavation area will be used primarily for the excavation of sand,
gravel, stock, and other earth material and the processing, storage,
stockpiling, distribution, and sale thereof.
         The following uses may be permitted when they are determined to be
functionally beneficial to the excavation activity appropriate to the location
and environs and not detrimental to adjoining lands:
         a.   Concrete batching plants;
         b.   Mixing plants for either portland cement or asphalt concrete;
         c.   Concrete block, pipe, beam, slab, or panel plants.
Other excavation area requirements:
   1.   Slopes.  No production from an open pit shall be permitted which
creates a finished slope steeper than one and one-half (1½) feet horizontal to
one (1) foot vertical for the excavation of sand and gravel, or which creates a
finished slope steeper than one (1) foot horizontal to one (1) foot vertical
for the excavation of products other than sand, except that in locations where
the soil or rock content is such that vertical cuts are proven to be safe, a
vertical cut up to eight (8) feet in depth from ground level with a shelf no
less than twelve (12) feet wide followed by a vertical cut thereafter of any
depth shall be allowed.
   2.   Fencing.  Prior to the commencement of any operations in an excavation
area or part thereof located within five hundred (500) feet of a developed
residential area, public park, or other institution or public highway, a fence
shall be constructed enclosing the excavation area or part within that
prescribed distance. Shops, garages, warehouses, storage areas, offices,
dwelling units and other areas which have not been excavated and are not used
by the excavation area, need not be fenced. Said fence shall be of woven wire,
not capable of receiving a child's foot and be at least four (4) feet in
height, or a planting of shrubs capable of producing a tight, practically
impenetrable hedge (i.e., multi-flora rose). The bottom of the fence shall
conform to the ground surface so as to prevent any opening between it and the
ground surface exceeding four (4) inches. Gates of the same height as the fence
shall be installed at all points of vehicular or pedestrian ingress and egress.
Said gates shall be equipped with keyed locks and shall be kept locked at all
times when the excavation area operations are shut down. Said fence, gates, and
locks shall be maintained in good condition.
   3.   Hours of Operation. Excavation and material processing activities
permitted in the excavation area shall be limited to the hours of 7:00 a.m. to
8:00 p.m. (in keeping with Section
6-59), except in the following situations:
         a.   Where required by public authorities;
         b.   Where work requires a continuous flow of materials;
         c.   Where necessary due to public emergencies;
         d.   Where any necessary and reasonable repairs to equipment are
required.
   4.   Ingress, Egress and Traffic Safety. Access roads to any excavation area
shall be limited to one (1), or at most two (2) points and shall be constructed
on a level with the pavement of any public street or highway for a distance of
not less than eighty (80) feet therefrom, and said eighty (80) feet of road
shall be improved with a dust proof all weather surface. Adequate sight
distance shall be maintained for traffic safety in compliance with the
standards and requirements of the local highway authorities.
   5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided for all
equipment and for cars of employees.
   6.   Screens. Screen planting consisting of a variety of trees, shrubs, or
both in the same planting area, or a combination of seeded earth mounds and
plant material screens shall be constructed and planted so as to form dense
screens to a height appropriate to block out objectional features and
maintained along the perimeter of any area being operated where said perimeter
abuts a public thoroughfare or a developed residential area.
   7.   Drainage. Upon the completion of operations, the land shall be left in
a safe condition so that sufficient drainage shall be provided so as to prevent
water pockets or undue erosion, with all grading and drainage such that both
natural storm water leaves the entire property at the original, natural
drainage points and that the area drainage to any one (1) such point is not
increased.
   8.   Excavations made to water producing depths and proposed as water areas
in the plan of development must comply with section 905.0 of the Book of
Standards.
   9.   The rehabilitation of the excavation shall be in conformance with the
plan of development submitted with the application.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-127 Private Swimming Pools.
   a.   A private swimming pool, as regulated herein, shall be any pool, or
open tank, not located within a completely enclosed building and containing or
normally capable of containing water to a depth at any point greater than one
and one half (1½) feet. No such swimming pool shall be allowed in any residence
or rural development district except as an accessory use and unless it complies
with the following conditions and requirements.
      1.   The pool is intended and is to be used solely for the enjoyment of
the occupants of the principal use of the property on which it is located.
      2.   It may not be located closer than ten percent (10%) of the lot width
as measured at the front building line to any property line of the property in
which it is located and under no circumstances may be located within a required
side yard.
      3.   The swimming pool or the entire property on which it is located,
shall be so walled or fenced (minimum height of five (5) feet and a maximum
height of six (6) feet) as to prevent uncontrolled access to the pool by
children from the street or from adjacent properties and shall provide a
drainage system which will dispose of the water without runoff onto adjacent
properties.
      4.   Effective June 1, 2021, a pool without a wall or fence as described
above is nonetheless compliant with this Section if the pool is covered with a
Safety Cover at all times while it is unoccupied and unattended. A “Safety
Cover” is a waterproof cover specifically intended for use on a pool and
capable of supporting no less than 485 pounds.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2021-12, 6-10-21)
Sec. 10-128 Temporary Tract Offices.
   a.   Temporary tract office in any district shall be located on the property
to which it is appurtenant and shall be limited to a twelve (12) month period
at the expiration of which time the applicant may request a further extension
of time. Otherwise the tract office shall be removed at the expense of the
owner, subject to the following limitations:
      1.   The applicant shall secure a Certificate of Zoning Compliance from
the Zoning Administrator which shall be valid for a period of time not to
exceed one (1) year.
      2.   The Certificate of Zoning Compliance may be renewed annually.
      3.   The property on which the temporary tract office is located must be
an active construction site.
      4.   The applicant shall pay a fee in accordance with Section
7-60 for each original issuance and renewal.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-129 Filling Stations.
   Construction of filling stations shall comply with state and federal
regulations.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-130 Schedule of Zoning Districts Adopted.
   a.   Zoning Districts. The following Zoning Districts are established (see
Zoning Districts map):
      1.   Residential Districts:
         a.   R-1 Residential Single-Family (Low Density).
         b.   R-2 Residential Single-Family (Medium Density).
         c.   R-3 Residential Duplex.
      2.   Commercial and Mixed-Use Districts:
         a.   SHEFF/MAIN - Sheffield & Main District.
         b.   DT - Downtown District.
         c.   RT 30 - Route 30 District.
      3.   CI - Civic and Institutional.
      4.   O - Open Space.
      5.   I - Light Industrial District.
      6.   PUD - Planned Unit Development.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b44663335d846b22bd032dfe090aca6d0fba3e16/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2923.png]
 
   b.   General Description of Zoning Districts.
      1.   R-1 Residential, Single-Family (Low-Density). This district consists
of primarily a low-density single-family detached residences with limited
public and institutional uses that are compatibl e with a low- density
residential neighborh ood. It has deeper front setbacks and medium side
setbacks.
      2.   R-2 Residential, Single- Family (Medium Density). This district
accommoda tes single- family development on smaller lots to provide for a
variety in single-family residenti al living condition s.
      3.   R-3 Residential Multi- Family District. This district consists of
medium density developme nt including Townhomes and Row Houses and also allows
for areas for higher- density, multi-family low rise developments, exclusive of
areas developed as Planned Unit Developments.
      4.    SHEFF/MAIN-Sheffield & Main District (Mixed Use). This neighborh
ood scaled district is a medium- density area and has a mix of uses and
building types in a walkable pedestrian friendly environment. Primary uses are
residential, retail, personal service, and office. Primary building types are
Townhomes and Row Houses, Multi-family low rise developments, smaller footprint
commercial, and Mixed-Use buildings with retail and commercial on the ground
floor and offices or residences above. Commercial and Mixed- Use buildings in
this district are encouraged to be close to the sidewalk with parking to the
rear.
      5.   DT - Downtown District. This district is a medium- density area and
has a mix of uses and building types in a walkable pedestrian friendly
environment. Primary uses are retail, personal service, and office with multi-
family residential as a supplemental use. Primary building types are smaller
footprint commercial, and Mixed-Use buildings with retail and commercial on the
ground floor and offices or residences above. Commercial and Mixed-Use
buildings in this district are encouraged to be close to the sidewalk with
parking to the rear.
      6.   CI - Civic and Institutional. Area designated for Civic and
Institutional purposes with buildings and facilities such as municipal
buildings, post offices, libraries, places of worship community centers, public
and private educational facilities, and public spaces.
      7.   O - Open Space. The OS Open Space Zoning District is intended for
the designated and protection of parks and public recreational facilities, both
outdoor and indoor and include both active and passive recreation areas, and
certain ancillary uses, such as field houses, cultural facilities, and
performance areas.
      8.   I - Light Industrial District. This district reserves lands in
appropriate locations for development of light facility.
      9.   PUD - Planned Unit Development.  This district provides for
flexibility in future community needs, in keeping abreast of new building
methods, to provide for the planning of groups of dwellings, to secure the
benefit of solar orientation, climate control, and additional privacy, and to
provide for variety in dwelling types to meet changing needs of future
residences; for commercial buildings and groups thereof to secure greater
convenience to the public through improved methods of merchandising,
transportation, office management, and distribution of services necessary to
the public welfare; for industrial buildings and groups thereof to secure
greater efficiency in production through improved methods of manufacturing,
transportation, office management, and distribution of products necessary to
the public welfare. The PUD may necessitate the variation in the use and area
requirements of this ordinance which are designed primarily to apply to the
traditional pattern of lot development and building arrangement generally
prevailing within the Town.
   c.   Schedule of District Regulations. No one may erect or alter any
building unless the following bulk requirements are provided and maintained for
the building.
Bulk Requirements Table. (Legend: N/A: Not applicable, TH: Townhomes &
Rowhouses, MF: Multi-family, TBD: To be determined by town)
Use Matrix
Use DT SHEFF/ MAIN RT 30 CAL O CI R1 R2 R3 I SHEFF/
                                             81ST
Use Matrix
Use                             DT SHEFF/ MAIN RT 30 CAL O CI R1 R2 R3 I SHEFF/
                                                                         81ST
Residential
Community Residence             S  S           S     S             S
Childrens Home                  S  S           S     S             S
Dwelling- Single-Family         P  P           P     P      P  P  P   P
(Detached)
Dwelling - Two-Family           P  P           S     S          P   P
Dwelling - Townhouse            P  P           S     S          P   P
Dwelling - Multi-Family         P  P           S     S             P
Dwelling - Above the Ground     P  P           P     P             P
Floor
Live/Work Dwelling              S  S           S     S             S
Residential Care Facility       S  S           S     S             S
Retreat House                   S  S           S     S             S
Public/Institutional
Community Center                P  P           S     S   P P         P
Community Garden                P  P           S     S   P P         P
Cultural Facility               P  P           S     S    P         P
Educational Facility - Primary  P  P           S     S    P  P  P  P   P
or Secondary
Educational Facility -          P  P           S     S    P  P  P  P   P
University
Educational Facility -          P  P           S     S    P         P
Vocational
Fire Station                    P  P           S     S    P         P
Government Office               P  P           S     S    P         P
Libraries                       P  P           S     S    P         P
Park/Playground                 P  P           S     S   P P  P  P  P   P
Place of Worship                P  P           S     S    P  P  P  P   P
Public Safety Facility          P  P           S     S    P         P
Public Works Facility           P  P           S     S    P         P
Tour House/House Museum         P  P           S     S    P         P
Utility
Array Style Design Antenna      S  S           S     S    S        P S
Communications Facility
Collocation of Antennas         S  S           S     S    S        P S
Electrical Substation           S  S           S     S    S        P S
Roof Mounted Antennas           S  S           S     S    S        P S
Satellite Receiving Dish,
Greater than 1 Meter in         S  S           S     S    S        P S
Diameter
Telephone Relay Facilities      S  S           S     S    S        P S
Utility Substation              S  S           S     S    S        P S
Retail
Antique Store                   P  P           P     P             P
Art Gallery                     P  P           P     P             P
Auction House                   P  P           S     P             P
Brewpub                         P  P           P     P             P
Consignment Shop                P  P           P     P             P
Craft Brew Lounge               P  P           P     P             P
Design Studio with Retail       P  P           P     P             P
Gas Station                     S  S           P     P             P
Greenhouse/Nursery              P  S           P     P             P
Heavy Retail and Rental         P  P           S     P             P
Outdoor Dining                  P  P           P     P             P
Restaurant                      P  P           P     P             P
Retail Goods Establishment      P  P           P     P             P
Secondhand Goods Dealer         P  P           P     P             P
Specialty Food Service          P  P           P     P             P
Vehicle Dealership - Fully      S  S           S     S             S
Enclosed
Vehicle Dealership - With       S  S           S     S             S
Outdoor Storage and Display
Service
Animal Care Facility - Fully    P  P           P     P             P
Enclosed
Animal Care Facility - With
Outdoor Area (at grade or       S  S           S     S             S
rooftop)
Art and Fitness Studio          P  P           P     P             P
Bed and Breakfast               S  P           P     P             P
Body Modification Establishment S  S           S     S             S
Business Service Center         P  P           P     P             S
Car Wash                        P  P           P     P             P
Contractor Shop                 P  P           P     P             P
Day Care Center                 P  P           P     P             P
Day Care Home                   P  P           P     P             P
Funeral Home                    P  P           P     P             P
Hotel/Motel                     P  P           P     P             P
Massage Service Establishment   P  P           P     S             P
Personal Service Establishment  P  P           P     S             P
Reception/Banquet Facility      P  P           P     P             P
Self-Service Storage Facility   S  P           S     P             P
Vehicle Rental                  P  P           S     P             P
Vehicle Repair/Service - Minor  S  S           S     P            P S
Vehicle Repair/Service - Major  S  S           S     P            P S
Recreational
Athletic Field                  P  P           S     P   P   P  P  P  P P
Auditoriums                     P  P           S     P    P         P
Health Club                     P  P           P     P    P         P
Live Performance Venue          P  P           P     P    P         P
Social Lodge/Meeting Hall       P  P           P     P    P         P
Nature Preserve                 P  P           P     P   P          P
Playgrounds                     P  P           P     P   P   P  P  P  P P
Recreation, Indoor              P  P           P     P   P P  P  P  P  P P
Recreation, Outdoor             P  P           P     P   P P  P  P  P  P P
Office
Financial Institution           P  P           P     P             P
Office                          P  P           P     P             P
Industrial Design               P  P           P     P            P P
Research and Development (R&D)  P  P           P     P            P P
Work Lounge                     P  P           P     P            P P
Medical
Assisted Living                 S  S           S     P             S
Convalescent Homes              S  S           S     P             S
Hospital                        P  P           P     P             P
Medical Marijuana Dispensary    S  S           S     S             S
Medical/Dental Clinic           P  P           P     P             P
Nursing Homes                   P  S           S     P             S
Physical Therapy Clinic         P  P           P     P             P
Industrial
Industrial - Light              P  P           S     S            P P
Micro-Brewery                   P  P           P     P            P P
Micro-Distillery                P  P           P     P            P P
Micro-Winery                    P  P           P     P            P P
Storage Yard (Outdoor)          S  S           S     P            P S
Vehicle Operation Facility -    S  S           S     P            P S
Fully Enclosed
Vehicle Operation Facility -    S  S           S     P            P S
With Outdoor Storage
Warehouse & Distribution        S  S           S     P            P S
Wholesale Establishment         S  S           S     P            P S
Transportation
Drive-Through Facility          S  S           S     P            P S
Helipad                         S  S           S     P            S S
Other
Broadcasting Facility - TV/     S  S           S     S    P        P S
Radio with Antenna
Broadcasting Facility - TV/     S  S           S     S    P        P S
Radio without Antenna
Wireless Telecommunications     S  S           S     S    P        P S
Antenna
Wireless Telecommunications     S  S           S     S    P        P S
Tower
Farmers Market                  P  P           S     S            P P
Real Estate Sales Office/Model  P  P           S     S            P P
Unit
Temporary Contractor s Office   S  S           P     P            P S
and Contractor s Yard
Temporary Mobile Food Sales     P  P           S     S            P P
Temporary Pop-Up Business       P  P           S     S            P P
Temporary Outdoor               P  P           S     S            P P
Entertainment/Promotional Event
Temporary Outdoor Sales         P  P           P     P            P P
Temporary Outdoor Storage       S  S           P     P            P S
Container
 
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2021-30, §1, 11-10-21; Am. Ord. No.
2023-26, 9-20-23)
Sec. 10-131 Supplementary District Regulations.
   a.   RD District: Rural Development.
      1.   Uses Permitted.
         a.   Single-family dwelling.
         b.   Churches or similar places of worship, parish house, convent.
         c.   Elementary schools, high schools, and institutions for higher
education, not conducted for profit.
         d.   Public parks and playgrounds and other municipal recreations
used.
         e.   Public libraries and museums.
         f.   Golf courses and country clubs, including such commercial
activities as dining rooms, bars, pro shops, etc., except that any building so
used shall be not less than two hundred (200) feet from any adjoining property.
         g.   Customary agricultural operations, provided that no continuing
and unreasonable odor or dust producing substance or use shall be permitted
within three hundred (300) feet of any property line.
         h.   Customary home occupations, provided that there shall be no
external evidence of such occupations, except an announcement or professional
sign not exceeding two (2) square feet in area, provided that no such sign
shall be illuminated.
         i.   Customary accessory uses and buildings including private garages,
provided such uses are incidental to the principal use and do not include any
activity commonly conducted for gain. Any accessory building shall be located
on the same lot with the principal building.
      2.   Percentage of Lot Coverage. All buildings including accessory
buildings shall not cover more than fifteen percent (15%) of the area of lot.
      3.   Building Size. No one-story dwelling shall be erected having a
ground floor liveable area of less than one thousand four hundred (1,400)
square feet and no two-story dwelling shall be erected having a ground floor
area of less that one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   b.   R-1 District: Single-Family Residential District.
      1.   Uses Permitted.
         a.   Single-family dwelling.
         b.   Churches or similar places of worship, parish house, convent.
         c.   Elementary schools, high schools, and institutions for higher
education.
         d.   Public parks and playgrounds and other municipal recreations
used.
         e.   Public libraries and museums.
         f.   Golf courses and country clubs including such commercial
activities as dining rooms, bars, pro shops, and the like, except that any
building so used shall be not less than two hundred (200) feet from any
adjoining property.
         g.   Customary home occupations, provided that there shall be no
external evidence of such occupations, except an announcement or professional
sign not exceeding two (2) square feet in area, provided that no such sign
shall be illuminated.
         h.   Customary accessory uses and buildings including private garages,
provided such uses are incidental to the principal use and do not include any
activity commonly conducted for gain. Any accessory building shall be located
on the same lot with the principal building.
      2.   Utility Requirements. Public sewer and water are required. All
utilities, including electric and telephone, shall be underground. Public
streets and sidewalks shall be provided and same shall meet Town specifications
as set forth in the Town's Book of Standards.
      3.   Percentage of Lot Coverage. All buildings including accessory
buildings shall not cover more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of lot.
      4.   Building Size. No one-story dwelling shall be erected having a
ground floor liveable area of less than one thousand four hundred (1,400)
square feet and no two-story dwelling shall be erected having a ground floor
liveable area of less than one thousand (1,000) square feet.
      5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking for not less than two (2)
vehicles shall be provided in either garages or hard surface driveways.
   c.   R-2 District: Single-Family Residential District.
      1.   Uses Permitted.
      All uses permitted in the R-1 District, subject to the regulations set
forth therein, except those regulations relating to lot size, side yard
requirements, front and rear yard requirements.
      2.   Utility Requirements. Public sewer and water are required. All
utilities including electric and telephone, shall be underground. Public
streets and sidewalks shall be provided and same shall meet Town specifications
as set forth in the Town's Book of Standards.
      3.   Percentage of Lot Coverage. All buildings including accessory
buildings shall not cover more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of the
lot.
      4.   Building Size. No one-story dwelling shall be erected having a
ground floor liveable area of less than one thousand one hundred (1,100) square
feet and no two-story dwelling shall be erected having a ground floor liveable
area of less than eight hundred (800) square feet.
      5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking for not less than two (2)
vehicles shall be provided in either garages or hard surface driveways.
   d.   R-3 District: Residential Duplex.
      1.   Uses Permitted.
         a.   All uses permitted in the R-1 and R-2 Districts.
         b.   Two-family dwellings.
      2.   Utility Requirements. Public sewer and water are required. All
utilities, including electric and telephone, shall be underground. Public
streets and sidewalks shall be provided and same shall meet Town specifications
as set forth in the Town's Book of Standards.
      3.   Percentage of Lot Coverage. All buildings including accessory
buildings shall not cover more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot.
Each unit in this zoning district shall be permitted to cover up to forty
percent (40%) of the portion of the lot that said unit occupies however in no
case shall the total lot coverage exceed forty percent (40%).
      4.   Building Size. No building shall be erected for two-family purposes
having a ground floor liveable area of less than nine hundred (900) square feet
per family.
      5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking for not less than two (2)
vehicles shall be provided in either garages or hard surface driveways.
      6.   The lot shall be divided according to the number of units for
platting purposes in an effort to assure proper assignment of key numbers.
   e.   R-4 District: Multiple-Family Residence District.
      1.   Uses permitted.
         a.   All uses permitted in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts.
         b.   Two-family and multiple-family dwellings.
         c.   Nursing and convalescent homes but excluding institutions for the
insane, feeble minded, drug, or alcohol related patients, however, that such
occupancy shall be by special use permit only.
         d.   Hospital or sanitarium for the treatment of human ailments,
however, that such occupancy shall be by special use permit only.
         e.   Clubs and lodges, except in such clubs or lodges, the chief
activity of which is a service customarily carried on as a business or
primarily for gain. In conjunction with such club or lodge a dining room may be
operated provided it is incidental to the activities of said club or lodge and
is conducted for the benefit of the members thereof only, and further provided
no sign is displayed advertising such activity.
      2.   Utility Requirements. Public sewer and water are required. All
utilities, including electric and telephone, shall be underground. Public
streets and sidewalks shall be provided and same shall meet Town specifications
as set forth in the Town's Book of Standards.
      3.   Required Lot Area. No dwelling shall be established on a lot having
an area less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, provided, however, that
each dwelling shall be located on a lot having an area of not less than the
following:
         a.   Each unit shall have a minimum of four thousand (4,000) square
feet of green space on the lot or in the development.
            For purposes of this ordinance, the term bedroom, shall include
nursery, den, guest room, maid's room, and other rooms that are readily
converted to bedrooms.
      4.   Percentage of Lot Coverage. All buildings including accessory
buildings shall not cover more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot.
      5.   Building Size. No building shall be erected for multiple-family
purposes having a ground floor liveable area of less than nine hundred (900)
square feet and no dwelling unit shall contain less liveable floor area than
the following:
         a.   Efficiency - nine hundred (900) square feet.
         b.   One-bedroom - nine hundred (900) square feet.
         c.   Each unit in excess of two (2) bedrooms shall add a minimum of
one hundred fifty (150) square feet per bedroom.
      6.   Required Court Dimensions.
         a.   Outer Courts. An outer court is an open space enclosed wholly or
partially by two (2) or more buildings. The width of any outer court shall be
not less than two-thirds () the height of any opposing wall forming said court,
but not less than ten (10) feet, and the depth shall not be greater than one
and one half (1½) times the width.
         b.   An inner court is an open space circumscribed by a single
building.
            i.   The least dimensions of any inner court shall be not less than
two-thirds () the full height of the walls enclosing such court, but not less
than thirty (30) feet.
            ii.   An open and unobstructed passageway shall, be provided at the
grade level of each inner court. Such passageway shall have a cross section
area and sufficient headroom to permit the passage of fire fighting personnel
and equipment (not including motor vehicles and large apparatus) and shall be
continuous from the inner court to a yard or an unobstructed open area between
buildings.
      7.   Distance Between Buildings on Same Plot. No principal building shall
be closer to any other principal building than the average of the heights of
said buildings, but not less than twenty (20) feet.
      8.   Off-Street Parking. A minimum of two (2) vehicles spaces for each
dwelling unit shall be provided on paved parking areas or in private garages,
which shall be assigned to each dwelling unit.
      9.   Lots shall be divided according to the number of units for platting
purposes in an effort to assure proper assignment of key numbers.
   f.   R-5M District: Mobile Home District.
      1.   Uses Permitted.
         a.   Mobile homes.
         b.   Churches or similar places of worship, parish house, convent.
         c.   Elementary schools, middle schools, high schools, and
institutions for higher education.
      2.   Utility Requirements. Public sewer and water are required. All
utilities, including electric and telephone, shall be underground. Public
streets and sidewalks shall be provided and same shall meet Town specifications
as set forth in the Town's Book of Standards.
      3.   Percentage of Lot Coverage. All buildings including accessory
buildings shall not cover more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of lot.
      4.   Building Size. No dwelling shall have a ground floor liveable area
less than six hundred (600)
square feet.
      5.   Off-Street Parking. Off-street parking for at least two (2) vehicles
shall be provided on paved driveways.
      6.   The Dyer Plan Commission may also include the imposition of
conditions of use which the Commission deems essential to insure that the
location of an R-5M District is consistent with the spirit, purpose and intent
of this ordinance and will not substantially and permanently injure the
appropriate use of neighboring property, and will substantially serve the
public convenience and welfare.
   g.   B-1 District: Convenience District.
      1.   Uses Permitted.
         Apparel stores
         Art and school supplies stores
         Bakeries
         Barber shops
         Beauty shops
         Candy, dairy and ice cream stores
         Churches
         Drug stores
         Dry goods
         Electric and telephone substations by special exception
         Fire stations
         Food stores, including grocery and convenience stores
         Gift shops
         Jewelry stores including watch repairs
         Laundries and dry cleaners automatic self service coin operated
         Meat markets including the processing and sale of meat and meat
products when conducted
          as part of the retail business
         Municipal facilities and public utilities
         Parks and playgrounds
         Police stations
         Schools (public and private)
         Shoe and hat repair stores
         Stores and shops normally identified as convenience outlets
          Accessory buildings and accessory uses
      2.   Utility Requirements. Public sewer and water are required. All
utilities, including electric and telephone, shall be underground. Public
streets and sidewalks shall be provided and same shall meet Town specifications
as set forth in the Town's Book of Standards.
      3.   Building Height Unit. No building shall be erected to a height in
excess of thirty (30) feet.
      4.   Square Footage Limitation. No single store, shop, office, or
facility may exceed five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      5.   Off-Street Parking. See Section
10-132.
      6.   Off-Street Loading. See Section
10-132.
      7.   In any commercial zoning district where a commercial building is to
be located on a lot which is adjacent to property zoned for residential use,
and in any industrial zoning district where an industrial building is to be
located on a lot which is adjacent to property zoned for commercial or
residential use, an opaque landscape screen, an opaque fence or screening
having a minimum height of six (6) feet shall be provided by the commercial or
industrial development along the lot lines of the adjacent property.
Additionally, there shall be a minimum of a fifteen (15) foot greenspace
between the commercial and residential zoning districts to be provided by the
commercial developer. For the purposes of this section adjacent property shall
mean both adjoining property and property separated by an alley. For further
requirements, see Section
10-147.7 regarding bufferyard landscaping requirements.
   h.   B-2 District: General Commercial District.
      1.   Uses Permitted.
         All uses permitted in B-1.
         Animal hospitals
         Antique shops
         Art galleries
         Banks
         Bicycle stores, sales, rentals and repairs
         Billiards by special exception
         Blue printing and photocopying establishments
         Book and stationery stores
         Bowling by special exception
         Camera and photography supply stores
         Car washes and auto laundries
         Carpet, linoleum and tile stores
         Caskets and casket supplies
         Cat and dog hospitals not including kennels
         Catalog sales stores
         Catering establishments
         Cemeteries
         China and glassware stores
         Clothing and costume rental shops
         Coin and philatelic stores
         Communication towers, microwave towers, telephone exchanges including
equipment buildings
         Contractor's and construction offices
         Custom dressmaking and millinery shops
         Dance academy
         Drive-in restaurants
         Electric household appliance, television and radio stores including
repairs
         Employment agency
         Florist shop and conservatories
         Furniture stores
         Furrier shops including storage
         Garden supply and seed stores
         Gymnasiums
         Haberdashery stores
         Hardware stores
         Health centers
         Health food stores
         Hobby stores
         Interior decorating shops
         Job printing shops
         Laboratories - research and testing, including medical and dental
         Launderettes and dry cleaning establishments using not more than two
(2) clothes cleaning units neither of which shall have a rated capacity of more
than forty (40) pounds using fluid which is non-explosive and non-flammable
         Leather goods and luggage stores
         Libraries
         Loan offices
         Locksmith shops
         Medical and dental clinics
         Musical instrument stores including repairs
         Office supply stores
         Offices, professional and otherwise, office buildings
         Optician shops
         Orthopedic and medical appliance stores not including manufacturing of
such appliances
         Package liquor stores and taverns by special exception
         Paint and wallpaper stores
         Pawn shops
         Pet stores
         Photograph printing shops
         Photography studios
         Physical culture and health spas, privately owned and operated, such
centers may include gymnastics, reducing salons, karate and judo studios and
the like
         Picture framing stores
         Planned unit development, business
         Post office
         Public museum
         Radio and television broadcasting
         Recreational buildings and community centers
         Restaurants when no entertainment or dancing is provided
         Satellite dish sales establishments
         Schools including music, dance and business
         Sewing machine stores, household machines only
         Shoe and hat repair
         Shoe stores
         Sporting goods stores
         Tailor shops
         Tanning salons
         Taxidermist shop
         Tobacco shops
         Typewriter, adding machine and home computer sales and service
         Video dating establishments with adequate soundproofing
         Video rental sales/services stores
         Wearing apparel shops
         Accessory buildings and accessory uses
      2.   Utility Requirements. Public sewer and water are required. All
utilities, including electric and telephone, shall be underground. Public
streets and sidewalks shall be provided and same shall meet Town specifications
as set forth in the Town's Book of Standards.
      3.   Building Height Limit. Forty (40) feet.
      4.   Off-Street Parking. See Section
10-132.
      5.   Off-Street Loading. See Section
10-132.
      6.   In any commercial zoning district where a commercial building is to
be located on a lot which is adjacent to property zoned for residential use,
and in any industrial zoning district where an industrial building is to be
located on a lot which is adjacent to property zoned for commercial or
residential use, an opaque landscape screen, an opaque fence or screening
having a minimum height of six (6) feet shall be provided by the commercial or
industrial development along contiguous lot lines of the adjacent property.
Additionally, there shall be a minimum of a fifteen (15) foot greenspace
between commercial and residential zoning districts to be provided by the
commercial developer. For purposes of this section adjacent property shall mean
both adjoining property and property separated by an alley. For further
requirements, see Section
10-147.7 regarding bufferyard landscaping requirements.
   i.   B-3 District: Highway Commercial.
      1.   Uses Permitted.
         All uses permitted in B-2.
         Those special exception uses allowed in the B-2 District.
         Ambulance services
         Amusement parks
         Automobile accessory stores
         Automobile filling stations
         Automobile service centers
         Boat and motor sales including servicing and repairs
         Building materials sales, w/accessory enclosed (fenced) storage
         Business establishments with entertainment
         Clubs and lodges, private, fraternal or religious
         Commercial laundry
         Contractor's and construction office excluding the storage of vehicles
and large equipment over
          five thousand (5,000) pounds
         Dog kennels
         Dry cleaning plants
         Extermination shops
         Frozen food locker, exclusive of slaughtering
         Greenhouse
         Hospitals (special exception?)
         Hotel
         Linen, towel, diaper and other similar services
         Live bait stores
         Lumberyards
         Monument sales
         Motel
         Motor vehicle salesroom or lot by special exception
         Night club which shall be defined as a place of entertainment open at
night usually serving food and liquor, having a floor show and providing music
and space for dancing
         Nurseries
         Nursing homes
         Parking lots for motor vehicles
         Personal storage buildings
         Public garage by special exception
         Recording studios with adequate soundproofing
         Restaurants when dancing and entertainment are provided
         Roofing materials sales
         Taverns where live entertainment is not provided
         Theaters (special exception?)
         Travel bureaus and transportation ticket offices
         Undertaking establishments and funeral homes
         Upholstery shop
         Accessory buildings and accessory uses
      2.   Utility Requirements. Public sewer and water are required. All
utilities, including electric and telephone, shall be underground. Public
streets and sidewalks shall be provided and same shall meet Town specifications
as set forth in the Town's Book of Standards.
      3.   Building Height Limit. Forty (40) feet.
      4.   Off-Street Parking. See Section
10-132.
      5.   Off-Street Loading. See Section
10-132.
      6.   In any commercial zoning district where a commercial building is to
be located on a lot which is adjacent to property zoned for residential use,
and in any industrial zoning district where an industrial building is to be
located on a lot which is adjacent to property zoned for commercial or
residential use, an opaque landscape screen, an opaque fence or screening
having a minimum height of six (6) feet shall be provided by the commercial or
industrial development along the lot lines of the adjacent property.
Additionally, there shall be a minimum of a fifteen(15) foot green space
between commercial and residential zoning districts to be provided by the
commercial development. For the purposes of this section, adjacent property
shall mean both adjoining property and property separated by an alley. For
further requirements, see Section
10-147.7 regarding bufferyard landscaping requirements.
   j.   I District: Industrial District.
      1.   In any commercial zoning district where a commercial building is to
be located on a lot which is adjacent to property zoned for residential use,
and in any industrial zoning district where an industrial building is to be
located on a lot which is adjacent to property zoned for commercial or
residential use, an opaque landscape screen, an opaque fence or screening
having a minimum height of six (6) feet shall be provided by the commercial or
industrial development along the lot lines of the adjacent property.
Additionally, there shall be a minimum of a fifteen (15) foot green space
between industrial and commercial or residential zoning districts to be
provided by the industrial development. For the purposes o f this section,
adjacent property shall mean both adjoining property and property separated by
an alley. For further requirements, see Section
10-147.7 regarding bufferyard landscaping requirements.
      2.   Uses Permitted.
         a.   The following uses, provided, where they are established within
one hundred fifty (150) feet of a residence zone boundary line, they shall be
conducted wholly within a building, except for the off-street loading or
delivery vehicles incidental thereto.
            i.   Wholesaling establishments.
            ii.   Creameries and bottling plants.
            iii.   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging, or
treatment of such products as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, drugs, perfumes,
pharmaceuticals, perfumed toilet soap, toiletries, and food products except
fish and meat products, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, and the rendering or
refining of fats and oils.
            iv.   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of
articles, or merchandise from the following prepared materials; bone,
cellophane, canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or stones, shell
textiles, steel, tobacco, wood, yarns, and paint not employing a boiling
process.
            v.   The manufacture of pottery or figurines or other similar
ceramic products.
            vi.   The manufacture or maintenance of electric or neon signs,
billiards, commercial advertising structures, light sheet metal products,
including heating or ventilating ducts or equipment, cornices, eaves and the
like.
            vii.   The manufacture of musical instruments, clocks, watches,
toys, novelties, and rubber or metal stamps.
            viii.   Automobile assembling, painting, upholstering, rebuilding,
reconditioning, truck repairing, or overhaul, tire retreading or recapping,
battery manufacturing.
            ix.   Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and
devices, radios, and phonographs, including the manufacture of small parts
only, such as coils, condensers, transformers, crystal holders.
            x.   Blacksmith shop, manufacture of machine tools, manufacture of
machinery including agricultural electrical machinery or equipment, office or
store machines, equipment or supplies and the like, machine shop excluding
punch presses over one hundred (100) tons rated capacity and drop hammers.
            xi.   Foundry casting lightweight non-ferrous metal not causing
noxious fumes or odor.
            xii.   Laboratory, experimental, photo motion picture film or
testing.
            xiii.   Retail auto Dealerships with no physical inventory on the
premises. This use is limited to wholesale dealers holding a valid Town of Dyer
business license for the calendar years 2014 and 2015 as of the date of this
ordinance.
         b.   The following uses, provided, where they are within one hundred
fifty (150) feet of a residence zone boundary line, they shall be conducted
wholly within a building or within an area enclosed on all sides with a solid
wall, compact evergreen screen or uniformly painted board fence, not less than
six (6) feet in height, provided, however, that no such use shall provide for
the manufacture, storage, or sale of any material classified as explosive by
the Interstate Commerce Commission, Department of Transportation, or National
Fire Protection Association.
            i.   Building material sales yard, including the sale of lumber,
rock, sand and gravel as an incidental part of the main business.
            ii.   Contractor's equipment storage yard or plant or rental of
equipment commonly used by contractors.
            iii.   Draying, freighting, or trucking yard or terminal.
            iv.   Grain, feed, or fuel yard and storage.
            v.   Public utility service yard or electrical receiving or
transforming station.
            vi.   Plastic manufacture.
         c.   The following special exceptions, if their location is first
approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
            i.   Bleaching or dyeing process.
            ii.   Boiler works.
            iii.   Brick, tile, terra cotta, or cinder block manufacture.
            iv.   Chemical manufacture.
            v.   Concrete or cement products manufacture.
            vi.   Gas storage.
            vii.   Glass manufacture.
            viii.   Feed mill.
            ix.   Furniture manufacture.
            x.   Paper of pulp manufacture.
            xi.   Planning mill.
            xii.   Sand or gravel-distribution or storage.
            xiii.   Stone cutting.
            xiv.   Any other manufacture or industrial operation whose location
is determined by the Board to be in keeping with the intent and spirit of this
ordinance.
            xv.   Sexually oriented businesses - see Section 10-168.
            xvi.   Tattoo parlor. An establishment whose primary activity
consists of applying any form of tattoo or body art to customers for a fee.
      2.   Utility Requirements. Public sewer and water are required. All
utilities, including electric and telephone, shall be underground. Public
streets and sidewalks, unless specifically waived, shall be provided and same
shall meet Town specifications as set forth in the Town's Book of Standards.
      3.   Percentage of Lot Coverage. No more than sixty five (65%) percent of
the lot may be covered with principal and accessory buildings.
      4.   Off-street Parking. See Section
10-132.
      5.   Off-street Loading. See Section
10-132.
      6.   Building Height Limit: Forty (40 feet).
   k.   In all RD, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5M Zoning Districts, the following
uses, if permitted in said Zoning Districts under Subsections a., b., c., d.,
e. and f. above, shall be permitted by special exception only:
      Cemeteries
      Churches
      Community centers
      Group homes
      Hospitals
      Libraries and museums
      Nursing homes
      Schools
      Golf courses and country clubs
   l.    Residential/Business.
      1.   Uses permitted.
         a.   Single family residences in combination with a commercial or
light industrial use.
      2.   Utility Requirements. Public sewer and water was required. All
utilities including electric, cable and telephone, shall be underground. Public
streets and sidewalks shall be provided and same shall meet Town specifications
as set forth in the Town's Book of Standards.
      3.   Building Height Limit. Forty (40) feet.
      4.   Lot coverage. No more than fifty percent (50%) of a lot may be
covered with buildings.
   m.   Planned Unit Development.
      1.   Purpose and Conditions.
         The Planned Unit Development (hereinafter referred to as “PUD”)
provides for a variety of dwelling types to meet changing needs for future
residents, and commercial and industrial buildings in order to secure greater
convenience to the public through improved methods of merchandising and
manufacturing, transportation, office management and distribution of services
or products necessary to the public welfare. Because use and area requirements
of this ordinance are primarily designed to apply to the traditional pattern of
lot development and building arrangement generally prevailing within the Town,
as well as building regulations pertaining to building size, yards, etc., the
Town Council may establish a PUD by amending this ordinance and the
accompanying Zoning Map, in accordance with the following procedure.
      2.   Objectives.
         The following objectives may be obtained through the use of a Planned
Unit Development District:
         a.   To permit a maximum choice in the types of environment available
to the public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the
strict application of other sections of this ordinance;
         b.   To promote a creative approach to the use of land and related
physical facilities that results in better design and development with the
inclusion of aesthetic amenities;
         c.   To combine and coordinate architectural styles, building forms
and building relationships with a possible mixing of different urban uses in an
innovative design;
         d.   To encourage a pattern of development to preserve natural
vegetation, topographic and geologic features and environmentally appropriate
features;
         e.   To provide for the prevention and/or control of soil erosion,
surface flooding and the preservation of sub-surface water;
         f.   To create a method for the permanent preservation of common open
space for the continued use and enjoyment of the residents of the development
and the public at large, if appropriate;
         g.   To provide for more usable and suitably located recreation
facilities, schools and other public and private facilities;
         h.   To promote more efficient use of the land resulting in more
economic networks of utilities, streets and other facilities;
         i.   To encourage a method for the preservation of architectural and
historic landmarks;
         j.   To encourage a land use which promotes the public health, safety,
and welfare.
      3.   General Design Criteria.
         Approval of a Planned Unit Development is contingent on satisfaction
of the following general design criteria and the Plan Commission shall find
each criterion to have been met prior to granting final approval:
         a.   That the tract to be developed is at least five (5) acres in the
case of planned unit residential development of exclusively single-family
dwelling units; at least two (2) acres in the case of planned unit residential
development containing multi-family dwelling units; and at least five (5) acres
for non-residential planned unit developments.
         b.   That the height of the proposed structures conforms to the
maximum height set forth in the district regulations for the district that is
most comparable to the proposed development in terms of zoning and use, as well
as the surrounding district and uses.
         c.   That the overall density of the residential projects (defined as
the number of living units per acre) may exceed the district regulations for
the district in which it is to be developed.
         d.   That the streets to be provided will assure a traffic circulation
pattern which minimizes through traffic, allows adequate space for turning and
parking and provides ample space for the turning and effective use of snow
plows, garbage and fire trucks, loading and unloading and other pick-ups and
deliveries without blocking traffic.
         e.   That the design of open spaces and housing in residential
projects will provide both convenient ingress and egress and privacy.
         f.   That no structure will be more than two hundred (200) feet from a
street, parking area, or other right-of-way on which a fire truck may be
operated.
         g.   That adequate lighting will be provided.
         h.   That the final plans include the planting of adequate trees,
shrubs and other landscaping where not already present.
         i.   That the design of the development is in harmony with existing
surroundings and will not be detrimental to the character of the neighborhood.
         j.   That the applicant will bond himself and his contractor(s) to
provide the improvements.
         k.   That adequate deed restrictions will be provided, running in
favor of the municipality or an automatic homeowners association and individual
homeowners for the proper maintenance, care and preservation of the exterior
design, all common structures, facilities, utilities, access and open spaces
and recreational areas by the original and all subsequent owners of property
within the development.
         l.   That streets and rights-of-way shall meet the following
standards:
            i.   Private street rights-of-way and pavements shall be
constructed in conformity with the minimum street specifications prescribed by
the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
            ii.   Private streets shall be maintained by the owners, or by the
private organization, so that fire, police, health, school, and/or sanitation
vehicles and public utility vehicles have adequate access. Adequate access
includes an adequate turning area.
            iii.   Where public streets are required by the Plan Commission,
they shall be dedicated and constructed in conformity with the minimum street
specifications prescribed by the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
      4.   Procedure. The procedure for obtaining a change in a zoning district
or undertaking development within a planned unit development district shall be
as follows:
         a.   Pre-application Conference.  The applicant must first attend a
staff meeting with the Town's Zoning Administrator. The applicant shall submit
a brief, written description of the proposed project to the Zoning
Administrator explaining the intended character of the PUD, the benefits
accruing to the community as a result of the PUD and the rationale behind the
concept of the PUD, along with a sketch plan of the proposed project. At least
fifteen (15) copies of the sketch plan must be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator at least ten (10) days in advance of the staff meeting. After the
staff meeting, the applicant may appear at a Plan Commission Study Session for
Sketch Plan review; however, there must be at least ten (10) days between the
staff meeting and the applicant's appearance at the Plan Commission Study
Session. This period is for staff review and recommendations.
      Fees shall be paid in accordance with the fee schedule contained in
Section
10-119.
            i.   Sketch Plan. A drawing of the planned unit development shall
be prepared at a scale that provides for a clear understanding of the intended
development. The plan shall indicate the overall land use pattern, general
circulation system, open space and park system and the major features of the
development. The sketch plan does not require a detailed site plan of the
buildings, roads, walks, etc. The plan should include:
               1.   Boundary lines or legal description.
               2.   Easements, general location and purpose.
               3.   Streets on or adjacent to the tract.
               4.   Proposed land use pattern.
               5.   Map date, name of development, name of site planner, north
point, scale, date of preparation and acreage of site.
            ii.   Site data. A written explanation of the graphic elements of
the plan including:
               1.   Description and quantity of land uses.
               2.   Description of residential units by type.
               3.   Number of dwelling units.
               4.   Estimated population.
               5.   Description of the development standards and design
criteria.
            iii.   Objectives. A statement of planning objectives to be
achieved by the Planned Unit Development. This statement shall include a
description of the character of the proposed development and the rationale of
the developer's plan.
            iv.   Ownership. A statement of the present and proposed ownership
of all land within the project.
            v.   Environment. A preliminary statement identifying existing
natural and environmental resources and the method to protect the physical
amenities of the site, including information on:
               1.   Topography.
               2.   Flood plains and surface hydrology.
               3.   Vegetation and natural coverage.
               4.   Soils and subsurface conditions.
               5.   Geology.
               6.   Scenic vistas and views.
            vi.   Utilities. A preliminary engineering study providing
information about existing and proposed sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water and
other utilities necessary to adequately service the development.
            vii.   Traffic. A preliminary traffic analysis providing
information on the existing road network and future improvements deemed
necessary to service the development. This item is subject to the discretion of
the Plan Commission.
            viii.   Schedule. A preliminary development schedule indicating the
approximate dates when construction of various stages of the development can be
expected to begin and be completed.
         b.   Preliminary Development Hearing. A public hearing shall be held
upon written application of the developer to the Plan Commission. The developer
shall submit fifteen (15) copies of a development plan to the Plan Commission
at least sixty (60) days prior to the preliminary hearing. The purpose of
preliminary hearing is to obtain preliminary approval and/or commitments from
the Plan Commission that the plans, design and program that the developer
intends to build and follow are acceptable and that the developer can obtain
assurance that it can reasonably proceed with final detailed architecture,
engineering, surveying, and landscape architecture in anticipation of final
plan approval and subsequent construction.
            i.   Preliminary Plan. The preliminary plan shall show the overall
plan for development, including grading, landscaping, exterior design and
location of buildings, lots, all common structures, parking and open spaces, as
follows:
               1.   Adequate provision shall be made for safe and efficient
pedestrian and vehicular circulation within the site.
               2.   The scale of the plan should be appropriate to show the
necessary detail with contours at a maximum of two (2) foot intervals and
indicating any unusual topographical features.
               3.   The location, dimensions, and arrangements of all open
spaces, yards, access ways, entrances, exits, off-street parking facilities,
loading and unloading zones, pedestrian ways, width of roads, streets, and
sidewalks, are adequate to provide for safe and efficient ingress and egress to
and from public streets and highways serving the development.
               4.   Capacity of all areas to be used for automobile access,
parking, loading, and unloading.
               5.   Location, planned uses, dimensions, gross floor area,
building coverage, and approximate height of each building or other structures.
               6.   Location and arrangement of all areas devoted to planted
lawns, trees, recreation, and similar purposes.
               7.   Provisions made for the location of existing or proposed
sewage disposal, water supply, storm water drainage, parking lot lighting, and
other utilities.
            ii.   Detailed Development Plan. A drawing of the Planned Unit
Development shall be prepared at a scale of not less than one (1) inch equals
one hundred (100) feet and shall show such designations as proposed streets
(public and private), all buildings and their proposed uses, common open space,
recreation facilities, parking areas, service areas, and other facilities to
indicate the character of the proposed development. The submission may be
composed of one (1) or more sheets and drawings which must include:
               1.   Boundary lines - bearing and distance.
               2.   Easements - location, width, and purpose.
               3.   Streets on and adjacent to the tract - street name, right-
of-way width, existing or proposed centerline elevations, pavement type, walks,
curbs, gutters, culverts, etc.
               4.   Utilities on and adjacent to the tract - location, size,
and invert elevation of sanitary and storm sewers, location and size of water
mains, location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone lines, and
street lights.
               5.   Ground elevations on the tract - for land that slopes less
than one-half percent (½%), show one (1) foot contour; for land that slopes
more than one-half percent (½%) , show two (2) foot contour; also show spot
elevations at all breaks in grades, along all drainage channels or swales and
at points of special significance.
               6.   Subsurface conditions on the tract - (if required by Plan
Commission) locations and results of tests to ascertain subsurface soil, rock
and ground water conditions, depth to ground water unless test pits are dry at
a depth of five (5) feet.
               7.   Other conditions on tract - water courses, flood plains,
margins, rock out-crop, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees (one (1) foot
or more in diameter), houses, barns, accessory buildings and other significant
features.
               8.   Other conditions on adjacent land, approximate directions
and gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls,
character and location of major buildings, pipelines, railroads, power lines,
towers, and other nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; owners of
adjacent unplatted land - for adjacent platted land refer to subdivision by
platter name and show approximate percent built-up, typical lot size, and
dwelling type.
               9.   Zoning - show zoning districts on and adjacent to the
tract.
               10.   Proposed public improvements - highways or other major
improvements planned for future construction, on or near tract.
               11.   Open space - all parcels of land intended to be dedicated
for public use or reserved for the use of all property owners with the purpose
indicated.
               12.   Structures - general location, purpose, and height, in
feet, of each building other than single family residences on individually
platted lots.
               13.   Map date - name of development, name of site planner,
northpoint preparation, and acreage of site.
               14.   Miscellaneous - such additional information as may be
required by the Plan Commission.
            iii.   Additional Documents. In addition, the applicant shall also
provide the following, together with its preliminary development plan:
               1.   A survey of the property, showing existing features of the
property, including contours, building structures, trees over four (4) inches
in trunk diameter, streets, utility rights-of-way and existing land use.
               2.   Preliminary drawings for buildings to be constructed in the
current phase, including floor plans, exterior elevations and sections.
               3.   Engineering feasibility studies of any anticipated problems
which might arise due to the proposed development as required by the Plan
Commission.
               4.   A vicinity map showing the capacity and arrangement of
utilities, streets, and thoroughfares.
               5.   Construction sequence and time schedule for completion of
each phase for buildings, parking spaces and landscaped areas.
               6.   An explanation of the character of the Planned Unit
Development and the manner in which it has been planned to take advantage of
the flexibility of regulations and referencing the general benefits that will
accrue to the public as a result of Planned Unit Development.
               7.   A statement of planning objectives to be achieved by the
Planned Unit Development. This statement should include description of the
character of the proposed development and the rationale behind the assumption
and choices of the developer.
               8.   A statement of present and proposed ownership of all land
within the project.
               9.   Proposed agreements, provisions, or covenants which will
govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of the Planned Unit
Development and any of its common open spaces.
               10.   Information about the density of residential uses,
including the number of dwelling units per acre, the number of dwelling units
by type, and the number of buildings by type.
               11.   Non-residential use - a statement indicating the type and
amount of ancillary and non-residential uses including the amount of common
open spaces.
               12.   Preliminary plans for plant materials, earth sculpturing,
berming and aesthetic features.
               13.   Facilities plans for roads, sanitary sewer, water supply
system, storm drainage, lighting program, and sidewalks.
               14.   Traffic analysis on the adequacy of the local
transportation and thoroughfare system to handle anticipated traffic volume
generated by Planned Unit Development. Such analysis should also include the
adequacy of the internal vehicular circulation pattern.
            iv.   Review. The Plan Commission shall review the application and
proposed plans with respect to whether or not the location, plan and character
of development is in harmony with the long range development plan of the Town
and its various elements. In the event that the original application is denied,
the applicant must resubmit an original application to receive consideration.
In the event the Plan Commission approves an application or tentatively
approves an application with suggestions for revision, the applicant shall
submit a final plan for final approval within six (6) months. After six (6)
months, the applicant must resubmit an original application in order to be
eligible for further consideration.
            v.   Conditions. Prior to the granting of any development plan, the
Plan Commission may recommend and/or require such conditions and restrictions
upon the establishment, location, design, layout, construction, maintenance,
beautification, aesthetics, operation and other elements of the planned unit
development as deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest,
improvement of the development, protection of the adjacent area and to secure
compliance with the standards specified above. In all cases in which
development plans are granted, the Plan Commission shall require such evidence
and guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the conditions required
in connection therewith will be complied with for the improvement of the
development, protection of the adjacent area and to secure compliance with the
standards specified.
            vi.   Findings. The Plan Commission, after determining that all the
requirements of the zoning ordinance pertaining to PUD districts have been met,
shall recommend the preliminary approval, approval with modifications, or
disapproval of the development plan. The Plan Commission shall enter its
reasons for such action in its records. The Plan Commission may recommend the
establishment of a PUD district provided that it finds the facts submitted with
the development plan establish that:
               1.   The uses proposed will not be detrimental to present and
potential surrounding uses, but will have a beneficial effect.
               2.   Any amendment to the requirements of this section is
warranted by the design and amenities incorporated in the development plan.
               3.   Land surrounding the proposed development either can be
planned in coordination with the proposed development or will be compatible in
use.
               4.   The proposed change to a PUD district is in conformance
with the general intent of the comprehensive master plan.
               5.   Existing and proposed utility services are suitable and
adequate to accommodate anticipated traffic within the proposed district and in
the vicinity of the proposed district.
               6.   Existing and proposed utility services are adequate for the
proposed development, and all buildings are served by a central sewage disposal
system, public water supply, and public utilities.
               7.   Each phase of the proposed development, as it is proposed
to be completed, contains at least the minimum amount of required parking
spaces, landscape and utility areas necessary for creating and sustaining a
desirable and stable environment, and that each phase will meet the foregoing
conditions and intent of this ordinance at completion of each phase.
               8.   The development will consist of a harmonious grouping of
buildings or other structures, adequate service, parking, and open spaces,
planned as a single and common operating and maintenance unit, as applicable.
         c.   Final Development Plan. The final development plan shall be in
general conformance with the approved preliminary development plan.
            i.   Final Detailed Plan. A final Planned Unit Development Plan
suitable for recording with the County Auditor's Office shall be prepared. The
purpose of the final plan is to designate with particularity the land
subdivided into conventional lots, as well as the division of other land, not
so classified, into common open areas and building areas. The final plan shall
include:
               1.   An accurate legal description of the entire area under
immediate development within the Planned Unit Development.
               2.   A planned unit development plan of all lands which are a
part of the final plan being submitted, and meeting all the requirements for a
final plan. If lands which are a part of the final plan are to be subdivided,
then a subdivision plan is also required.
               3.   An accurate legal description of each separate unsubdivided
use area including common open space.
               4.   Certificates, seals and signatures required for dedication
of lands, and recording the document.
               5.   Tabulation on separate unsubdivided use area, including
land area, number of buildings, number of dwelling units, and dwelling units
per acre.
            ii.   Common Open Space Documents. All common open space shall be
either conveyed to municipal or public corporations, conveyed to a not-for-
profit corporation or entity established for the purpose of benefiting the
owners and residents of the Planned Unit Development, or retained by the
developer with legally binding guarantees, in a form approved by the Town
Attorney, verifying that the common open area will be permanently preserved as
open area. All land conveyed to a not-for-profit corporation or like entity
shall be subject to the right of said corporation to impose a legally
enforceable lien for the maintenance and improvement of common open space.
            iii.   Public Facilities. All public facilities and improvements
made necessary as a result of the Planned Unit Development shall be either
constructed in advance of the approval of the final plan or a bond shall be
posted by the developer to guarantee construction of the required improvements.
The bond shall be payable to the Town of Dyer and shall be sufficient to cover
the total cost of the improvements plus ten percent (10%). Detailed
construction plans shall be submitted for all public facilities to be built.
            iv.   Construction Plans. Detailed plans shall be submitted for the
design, construction, and installation of site amenities including buildings,
landscaping, lakes and other site improvements.
            v.   Construction Schedule. A final construction schedule shall be
submitted for that portion of the Planned Unit Development for which approval
is being requested.
            vi.   Guarantee Deposit. A deposit shall be made to the Town of
Dyer in the form of cash, letter of credit of indefinite or renewable term, or
maintenance bond approved by the Plan Commission, in a form acceptable to the
Town Attorney equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the estimated cost of public
facility installation. This deposit shall be a guarantee of satisfactory
performance of the facilities constructed within the Planned Unit Development
and shall be held by the Town for a period of two (2) years from the date of
acceptance of the facilities by the Town. After such two (2) years, the deposit
shall be refunded if no defects have developed. If defects have developed,
within the two (2) year period, then the balance of such deposit shall be
refunded after reimbursement to the Town for amounts expended in correcting
defective facilities.
            vii.   Delinquent Taxes. A certificate shall be furnished from the
appropriate county official that no delinquent taxes exist and that any and all
special assessments constituting a lien on the whole or any part of the title
have been paid.
            viii.   Covenants.  Final agreements, provisions, or covenants
which govern the use, maintenance, and continued protection of the Planned Unit
Development shall be recorded at the same time as the final Planned Unit
Development Plan.
         d.   Recording of Final Plat. The final plat shall be recorded in
accordance with the requirements of Lake County, Indiana.
         e.   Modifications. The Planned Unit Development project shall be
developed only in accordance with the approved and recorded final plan and all
supporting data. The recorded final plan and supporting data, together with all
recorded amendments shall be binding on the applicants, their successors,
grantees, and assigns and shall limit and control the use of premises and
location of structures in the Planned Unit Development set forth therein.
Changes to the recorded Planned Unit Development shall be made in accordance
with the following procedure:
            i.   Major Changes. Changes which alter the concept or intent of
the Planned Unit Development, including changes in density, changes in the
height of buildings, reduction of proposed open space, changes in total bedroom
counts, changes in the development schedule, changes in the road standards, or
changes in the final governing agreements, provisions or covenants, or other
changes, may be approved only by submission and reconsideration of a new
preliminary Planned Unit Development Plan and supporting data and following the
preliminary procedure.
            ii.   Minor Changes. The Plan Commission may, in accordance with
procedure established in their rules, approve minor changes in the Planned Unit
Development which do not change the concept or intent of the development. Minor
changes shall be any change not defined as a major change, at the discretion of
the Plan Commission.
         f.   Conditions and Guarantees. Prior to the granting of any Planned
Unit Development District, the Plan Commission may recommend such conditions
and restrictions upon the establishment, design, location, lay-out, height,
density, construction, aesthetics operation or other elements of the Planned
Unit Development as deemed necessary for the protection of the adjacent area,
and to secure compliance with the standards specified in this ordinance.
   n.   Special Use District. See section
10-155.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2015-12, 6-15-15)
Sec. 10-132 Off-Street Parking Lots and Loading Areas.
   a.   Purpose. Off-street parking and loading spaces for every use in the
Town of Dyer is required in accordance with the standards established in this
Section to reduce the visual impact of large residential and nonresidential
parking areas, to minimize the adverse effects of off-street parking on
adjacent properties, and to ensure the proper design of parking areas in the
Town.
   (b)   General Requirements.
      (1)   No parking lot may be constructed or reconstructed unless and until
a Certificate of Zoning Compliance is issued. Applications for a certificate
must be submitted with two (2) copies of plans for the development and
construction of the parking lot.
      (2)   Shared Parking. Shared parking arrangements are strongly
encouraged. In the event that two (2) or more businesses select to share
parking lots in an effort to meet these parking requirements and reduce
impervious surfaces in the community the following standards apply.
         a.   Each business must provide at least seventy-five percent (75%) of
its required parking spaces on its own lot.
         b.   Upon providing proof of a written agreement to share parking
spaces on adjacent parking lots or parking lots within one thousand (1,000')
feet of the property of a given building in keeping with Section
10-132(d)(2), each business may be credited with one-half (1/2) of the parking
spaces on the adjacent lot to meet its total parking spaces requirement.
      (3)   Car-Share Facilities. Spaces within parking lots and structures may
include designated parking spaces for car-share facilities. Spaces reserved for
car-share facilities may count toward minimum parking requirements of this
ordinance at the discretion of the Town.
   (c)   Off-Street Parking Requirements. The following table of parking
requirements for various uses applies to all new developments. If a use is not
listed on the following table, the Zoning Administrator may apply the closest
use that appears on the table. Allocation of said parking areas must be
indicated on the plans required for obtaining a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance.
   (d)   Location of Off-Street Parking Spaces.
      (1)   Required off-street parking spaces accessory to residential
dwellings must be on the same lot as the use served.
      (2)   Off-street parking for other than residential uses must be either
on the same lot or within one thousand (1,000') feet of the property on which
the building it is intended to serve is located, measured from the nearest
point of the property on which the building it is intended to serve is located
to the nearest point of the off-street parking lot.
      (3)   Required off-street parking spaces accessory to nonresidential
districts must be within one thousand (1,000') feet of the use served, except
for spaces accessory to overnight accommodations, which must be within three
hundred (300') feet of the use served.
      (4)   No parking spaces accessory to a use in a nonresidential district
may be in a residential district, unless a special use permit is obtained from
the Town.
      (5)   Where these regulations allow shared parking between uses on
different lots, all such off-street parking areas must be no more than five
hundred (500') feet from the use they are intended to serve.
      (6)   One (1) recreational vehicle or utility or haul trailer may be
parked in a driveway, provided it is at least five (5) feet from a side, rear,
or front lot line, and not less than ten (10') feet from an adjoining
residential building.
      (7)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no commercial vehicle (e.g.
truck) which either has a weight in excess of eight thousand (8,000) pounds,
including vehicle or maximum load, or which exceeds twenty-one (21') feet in
length, eight (8') feet in width or nine (9') feet in height may be parked on
either streets or alleys. However, commercial vehicles may be parked for a
reasonable period of time necessary to pick up or deliver property, or
necessary to install or assemble such delivered property or to prepare such
property for loading and removal. Overnight parking of such vehicles is not to
be permitted in any setback.
   (e)   Design Standards.
      (1)   Each required parking space must cover a rectangle at least nine
(9') feet wide and eighteen (18') feet long as measured from the back of curb,
as illustrated in Figure 1.
      (2)   The minimum required eighteen (18') foot length must be greater
where a wall or fence is at the end of the parking space. The minimum required
length may be up to two (2') feet less if a strip of ground at least two (2')
feet wide exists at the end of the space and a curb prevents a vehicle from
driving onto the strip or hitting any fence or wall at the edge of the parking
area.
      (3)   Each required parking space must have direct and unrestricted
access to an aisle. The minimum width of said aisle is set out in Figure 1.
      (4)   The vertical clearance of each enclosed off-street parking space
must be a minimum of seven (7') feet.
      (5)   Adequate ingress to the parking lot and adequate access to parking
spaces by maneuvering lanes are required. Adequacy of ingress and egress is
subject to receive review and approval of the Town Engineer or other officers
as designated by the Plan Commission.
      (6)   All open off-street automobile parking areas and all off-street
loading areas, except one (1) and two (2) family residential and mobile home
residential areas, either created or redesigned and rebuilt after the adoption
of this ordinance must be improved with an eight (8") inch stone base, a two
(2") inch paved surface, as a minimum, marked with appropriate stripes and
lines to indicate parking stalls and circulation ways.
      (7)   All open off-street automobile parking and drives being used for
one (1) to four (4) family dwellings either created or redesigned and rebuilt
after the adoption of this ordinance must be improved with paved concrete,
asphalt paving, or paving brick.
      (8)   Adjacent parking lots must have vehicular and pedestrian
connections.
Parking Lot Design Standards
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b44663335d846b22bd032dfe090aca6d0fba3e16/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2913.png]
90 DEGREE
DOUBLE PARKING ROW
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b44663335d846b22bd032dfe090aca6d0fba3e16/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2919.png]
60 DEGREE
DOUBLE PARKING ROW
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b44663335d846b22bd032dfe090aca6d0fba3e16/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2917.png]
45 DEGREE
DOUBLE PARKING ROW
   (f)    Accessible Parking Spaces. Except for single-family dwellings, the
number of spaces required include the following requirements for parking spaces
for handicapped persons established by I.C. 5-16-9-2, shown below in Table 1:
Table 1. Accessible Parking Requirements
Accessible Parking Requirements
Total Number of Of-Street Parking Spaces Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Provided
Accessible Parking Requirements
Total Number of Of-Street Parking Spaces Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Provided
1 - 25                                   1
26 - 50                                  2
51 - 75                                  3
76 - 100                                 4
101 - 150                                5
151 - 200                                6
201 - 300                                7
301 - 400                                8
401 - 500                                9
501 - 1,000                              2% of total number
Over 1,000                               20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
      (1)   These requirements incorporate any future amendments to or
recodification of the referenced statute.
      (2)   Off-street parking spaces for the handicapped must be designed as
follows:
         a.   All spaces for the handicapped must have access to a curb-ramp or
curb-cut when necessary to allow access to the building served, so that users
will not be compelled to wheel behind parked vehicles, and be situated the
shortest possible distance between the parking area and the entrance to the
principal building it serves.
         b.   The total number of accessible parking spaces may be distributed
among parking lots, if greater accessibility is achieved in consideration of
such factors as anticipated usage, number and location of entrances and level
of parking areas.
         c.   Each parking space for the handicapped must be at least sixteen
(16') feet wide including an eight (8') foot wide access aisle, and adjacent
parking spaces may not share a common access aisle. All access aisles must
blend to a common level with an accessible route and be diagonally striped.
         d.   Parallel parking spaces for the handicapped must be either at the
beginning or end of a block, or adjacent to alley entrances. Curbs adjacent to
such spaces must be of a height that does not interfere with the opening and
closing of motor vehicle doors.
         e.   No accessible parking spaces are required if only attendant or
valet parking is provided and is available at all times that the facility is
open for public use. If accessible at-grade parking is available, at least one
(1) space for self-parking of a vehicle with sensitive specialized control
devices is required.
         f.   Each parking space for the handicapped must be equipped with a
sign the requirements of Sign R7-8, U.S. Department of Transportation Standard
and I.C. 5-16-9, Signs must be vertically mounted on a post or a wall at the
front center of the parking space, no more than five (5') feet horizontally
from the front of the parking space, and set a minimum of four (4') feet from
finished grade to the bottom of the sign.
   (g)   Bicycle Parking Standards. All nonresidential uses containing ten (10)
or more automobile parking spaces must provide bicycle parking facilities at
the rate of three (3) bicycle parking spaces for the first thirty (30)
automobile parking spaces provided and one (1) additional bicycle parking space
for every ten (10) additional automobile parking spaces provided, up to a
maximum of thirty (30) bicycle parking spaces. Bicycle racks must be installed
to support the frame of the bicycle and not just the wheel.
   (h)   Off-Street Loading Requirements.
      (1)   In any Commercial or Industrial District, sufficient space for the
loading or unloading of vehicles must be provided on the lot in connection with
any commercial or industrial use so that the public street is at all times free
and unobstructed to the passage of vehicular and pedestrian traffic. The space
must comply with the following requirements:
      (2)   Any loading space and any area required for maneuvering a vehicle
into and out of the loading space must be entirely on the same lot as the use
it serves. The unenclosed loading space may not be located on any public right-
of-way or other lot and must be oriented away from the street fronting the lot.
      (3)   No loading space for vehicles over two (2) tons capacity may be
closer than fifty (50') feet to any residential district, unless it is
completely enclosed by either building walls or a uniformly painted solid fence
or wall not less than six (6') feet high.
      (4)   No loading space or dock may be located within the required front
setback. Completely enclosed loading spaces may face a public street, provided
the garage door is kept closed except during loading and unloading operations.
Vehicles waiting for loading or unloading may not park or be stored within the
required front setback.
      (5)   Off-street loading spaces are permitted obstructions in rear
setbacks, as long as they are not closer than fifty (50') feet from the nearest
building or structure.
      (6)   Unless otherwise provided by these regulations, a required loading
space must be at least twelve (12') feet wide by at least twenty-five (25')
feet long, exclusive of aisles and maneuvering space, and have a vertical
clearance of at least fourteen (14') feet.
      (7)   Loading spaces must be provided based on the floor area of the
establishments they serve, as indicated in Table 2:
Table 2. Loading Requirements
 
Loading Requirements
GFA of Establishment (SF) Required Number of Loading Spaces
0 - 10,000                1
10,001 - 25,000           2
25,001 - 40,000           3
40,001 - 100,000          4
Over 100,000              5*
 
      *   Plus one additional space for every 50,000 sq. ft. of floor area over
150,000.
   (i)   Parking Lot Landscaping.
      (1)   All open off-street parking in B-1, B-2, B-3 and I zoning districts
may have no less than a ten foot (10') landscaped (green space) buffer between
parking areas and any public right-of- way and not less than a fifteen foot
(15') landscaped (green space) buffer between parking areas and any adjoining
residential property. Driveways may not encroach into the required fifteen foot
(15') landscaped (green space) buffer.
      (2)   All open off-street parking lots must conform to Sec.
10-147 Landscape Requirements.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2021-30, § 1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 10-133 Administration and Enforcement - Building Permits and Certificates
of Zoning Compliance.
   a.   Administration and Enforcement. A Building Commissioner and a Zoning
Administrator, both of which shall be designated by the Town Council of the
Town, shall administer and enforce this ordinance. Each may be provided with
the assistance of such other person as the Council may direct.
      If the administrative officials shall find that any of the provisions of
this ordinance are being violated, they either shall notify in writing the
person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of the violation
and ordering the action necessary to correct it. Either shall order
discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or structures; removal of
illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions, alterations, or
structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall
take any other action authorized by this ordinance to ensure compliance with or
to prevent violation of its provisions.
   b.   Building Permits Required. No building or other structure shall be
erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a permit therefor,
issued by the Building Commissioner. No building permit shall be issued by the
Building Commissioner except in conformity with the provisions of this
ordinance, unless he receives written order from the Board of Zoning Appeals in
the form of an administrative review, special exception, or variance as
provided by this ordinance.
   c.   Application for Building Permit. No permit for erection, alteration,
moving, or repair of any structure or installation of any parking facility,
shall be issued until an application has been made for a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance and the issuance of a Temporary Certificate of Zoning Compliance as
hereinafter set forth. No building permit except those issued for parking
facilities, residential accessory buildings and for additions to existing
residential single family structures, swimming pools, fences, and signs shall
be issued except on a subdivided lot. All applications for building permits
shall be accompanied by a Temporary Certificate of Zoning Compliance, plans in
triplicate drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot
to be built upon; the exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already
existing, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building,
alteration, or addition. The application shall include such other information
as lawfully may be required by the Building Commissioner, including existing or
proposed building, alteration, or addition, existing or proposed uses of the
building and land; the number of families, housekeeping units, or rental units
the building is designed to accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; and
such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance with, and
provide for the enforcement of, this ordinance.
      One (1) copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the
Building Commissioner, after he or she shall have marked such copy either
approved or disapproved and attested to same by his or her signature on such
copy. The original of the plans, similarly marked, shall be retained by the
Building Commissioner.
   d.   Certificates of Zoning Compliance for New, Altered, or Non-Conforming
Uses. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy, or permit the use or occupancy of
any building or premises, or both, or part thereof hereafter created, erected,
changed, converted, or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or
structure until a Certificate of Zoning Compliance shall have been issued
therefor by the Zoning Administrator stating that the proposed use of the
building or land conforms to the requirements of this ordinance. Prior to the
issuance of a Certificate of Zoning Compliance, the Zoning Administrator,
through the office of the Building Commissioner, shall ensure compliance with
the Sewer Use Ordinance of the Town of Dyer. The Clerk- Treasurer of the Town
of Dyer is prohibited from issuing an Occupancy Permit, or authorizing the use
of or connection to the Town's water utility or sewer utility without the
submission of a temporary or final Certificate of Zoning Compliance.
      A Final Certificate of Zoning Compliance shall be issued in conformity
with the provisions of this ordinance only upon completion of the work.
      A Temporary Certificate of Zoning Compliance may be issued by the Zoning
Administrator for a period not exceed twelve (12) months during construction,
alteration, or partial occupancy of a building pending its completion, provided
that such temporary certificate may include such conditions and safeguards as
will protect the safety of the occupants and public.
      The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a record of all Certificates of Zoning
Compliance, and a copy shall be furnished upon request to any person.
      Failure to obtain a Certificate of Zoning Compliance shall be a violation
of this ordinance and punishable under Section
10-142.
   e.   Expiration of Improvement Location Permit. If the work described in any
improvement location permit has not begun within ninety (90) days from the date
of issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and it shall be canceled by the
Building Commissioner/Building Inspector. Written notice thereof shall be given
to the persons affected, including the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
      If the work described in any improvement location permit with a
construction value of less than six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000.00), as
approved by the Building Commissioner/Building Inspector, has not been
substantially completed within one (1) year of the date of issuance thereof,
said permit shall expire and be canceled by the Building Commissioner/Building
Inspector, and written notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected,
including the Town Clerk-Treasurer, together with notice to the permit holder
that further work as described in the expired/canceled permit shall not proceed
unless a new improvement location permit has been obtained. The cost of the new
improvement location permit shall be predicated upon the cost to complete the
work described in the new improvement location permit application in the same
manner as the original improvement location permit cost was determined.
      In the event that the work described in an improvement location permit
exceeds six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000.00) of construction cost, as
approved by the Building Commissioner/Building Inspector, said improvement
location permit shall be valid for a period of two (2) years from the date of
issuance. The date of issuance shall be defined as the date on which the
improvement location permit becomes available for pick- up at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s Office in the Dyer Town Hall.
   f.   Construction and Use to be as Provided in Applications, Plans, Permits,
and Certificates of Zoning Compliance. Building permits or Certificates of
Zoning Compliance issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the
Building Commissioner and Zoning Administrator authorize only the use,
arrangement, and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications, and no other use, arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement,
or construction at variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of
this ordinance, and punishable as provided by Section
10-142  hereof.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-134 Board of Zoning Appeals - Establishment and Procedure.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is established, which shall consist of five (5)
members, two (2) of whom must be members of the Plan Commission, to be
appointed by the Town Council, each for a term of four (4) years. Members of
the Board of Zoning Appeals may be removed from office by the Town Council for
cause upon written charges and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled
by resolution of the Town Council for the unexpired term of the member
affected.
   a.   Proceedings of the Board of Zoning Appeals. The Board of Zoning Appeals
shall adopt the rules necessary to the conduct of its affairs and in keeping
with the provisions of this ordinance. Meetings shall be held at the call of
the chairman and at such other times as the Board may determine. The chairman,
or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be open to the public.
      The Board of Zoning Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be a public record and be immediately
filed in the office of the Board.
   b.   Hearings; Appeals; Notice. Appeals to the Board of Zoning Appeals
concerning the interpretation or administration of this ordinance, as amended
from time to time, may be taken by any person aggrieved by an order of the Plan
Commission, Building Commissioner, or Zoning Administrator, or by any officer
of the governing body of the Town affected by any decision of the
administrative officials. Such appeals shall be taken within a reasonable time,
not to exceed thirty (30) days or such lesser period as may be provided by the
rules of the Board, by filing with the administrative official and with the
Board of Zoning Appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
administrative official shall forthwith transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
      The Board of Zoning Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing
of appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in
interest as set forth in Section
10-135b.2. hereafter, and decide the same within a reasonable time.
      At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
The public hearing shall be held at the place and time specified. A party
seeking to appear by agent or attorney at any hearing as provided herein shall
submit to the body before whom the hearing is to be held, prior to the hearing,
a letter of authorization or properly executed power of attorney authorizing
the agent or attorney to appear at the hearing on behalf of the party.
   c.   Stay of Proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the administrative official from whom the
appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Zoning Appeals after the notice of
appeal is filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a
stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property. In such
case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which
may be granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals or by a court of record on
application, on notice to the administrative official from whom the appeal is
taken and on due cause shown.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-135 The Board of Zoning Appeals - Powers and Duties.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the following powers and duties:
   a.   Administrative Review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative official in the enforcement of this ordinance.
   b.   Special Exceptions - Conditions Governing Applications - Procedures.
To hear, and make recommendations to the Town Council on, such special
exceptions as the Board of Zoning Appeals is specifically authorized to hear by
the terms of this ordinance and in compliance with state law; to decide such
questions as are involved in determining whether special exception should be
granted; and to make recommendations to the Town Council on special exceptions
with such conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under this ordinance. A
special exception shall not be considered by the Board of Zoning Appeals unless
and until:
      1.   A written application for a special exception is submitted
indicating the section of this ordinance, as amended from time to time, under
which the special exception is sought and stating the grounds on which it is
requested.
      2.   Notice shall be given by publication in accordance with the
requirements of I.C., § 5-3-1, et seq. Additional notice of such hearings shall
be given to all interested parties. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall, by rule,
determine the following:
         (1)   Who are interested parties;
         (2)   How notice is to be given to them; and
         (3)   Who is required to give the notice.
      3.   The public hearing shall be held at the place and time specified. A
party seeking to appear by agent or attorney at any hearing as provided herein
shall submit to the body before whom the hearing is to be held, prior to the
hearing, a letter of authorization or properly executed power of attorney
authorizing the agent or attorney to appear at the hearing on behalf of the
party.
      4.   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make a finding that it is
empowered under the section of this ordinance described in the application to
grant the special exception, and that the granting of the special exception
will not adversely affect the public health, safety, welfare or morals of the
Town.
      5.   Before any special exception shall issue, the Board shall make
written findings certifying compliance with the specific rules governing
individual special exceptions and that satisfactory provision and arrangement
has been made concerning the following where applicable:
         a.   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures thereon
with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience,
traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or catastrophe.
         b.   Off-street parking and loading areas where required, with
particular attention to the items in a. above and the economic, noise, glare,
or odor effects of the special exception on adjoining properties and properties
generally in the district.
         c.   Refuse and service areas, with particular reference to the items
in a. and b. above.
         d.   Utilities, with reference to locations availability, and
compatibility.
         e.   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimension, and
character.
         f.   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect, and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district.
         g.   Required yards and other open spaces.
         h.   General compatibility with adjacent properties and other property
in the district.
   c.   Variances – Conditions Governing Applications – Procedures. To
authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variances of development standards
or use from the terms of this ordinance as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owning to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this ordinance would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance
from the terms of this ordinance shall not be granted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals unless and until:
      1.   A written application for a development standards or use variance is
submitted indicating the section of this ordinance, as amended from time to
time, under which the variance is sought and stating the grounds on which it is
requested. The written application for a development standards variance shall
demonstrate:
         a.   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community.
         b.   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included
in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner.
         c.    The strict application of the terms of the zoning ordinance will
result in practical difficulties in the use of the property.
      2.    The written application for a use variance shall demonstrate:
         a.   The approval will not be injurious to the public health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the community.
         b.   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property included
in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse manner.
         c.   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar to
the property involved.
         d.   The strict application of the terms of the zoning ordinance will
constitute an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which the
variance is sought.
         e.   The approval does not interfere substantially with the
comprehensive plan of the Town of Dyer adopted under I.C., 36-7-4-500, as
amended from time to time.
      3.   No non-conforming use of neighboring lands structures, or buildings
in the same district, and no permitted or non-conforming use of lands,
strictures, or buildings in other districts shall be considered for the
issuance of a variance.
      4.   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public hearing to consider
an application for development standards or use variance. Notice of public
hearing shall be given as in Section
10-135b.2..
      5.   The public hearing shall be held at the place and time specified. A
party seeking to appear by agent or attorney at any hearing as provided herein
shall submit to the body before whom the hearing is to be held, prior to the
hearing, a letter of authorization or properly executed power of attorney
authorizing the agent or attorney to appear at the hearing on behalf of the
party.
      6.   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make written findings using the
criteria as set forth in Sections
10-135(c)1. and 2.
      7.   In granting any variance, the Board of Zoning Appeals may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this ordinance, as
amended from time to time. Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when
made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this ordinance and punishable under Section
10-142, as amended from time to time.
      8.   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Zoning Appeals grant a
variance to allow any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms
of this ordinance in said district.
   d.   Board has Powers of Administrative Official on Appeals – Reversing
Decision of Administrative Official. In exercising the above mentioned powers,
the Board of Zoning Appeals may, so long as such action is in conformity with
the terms of this ordinance, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination as ought to be made, and to
that end shall have the powers of the administrative official from who the
appeal is taken. The concurring vote of three (3) members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this ordinance, or to effect any
variation in the application of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-136 Appeals From the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   Any person or persons, or any board or bureau of the Town aggrieved by any
decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals may seek review by a court of record of
such decision, in the manner provided by the laws of the State of Indiana.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-137 Duties of Administrative Official, Board of Zoning Appeals, and
Courts on Matters of Appeal.
   It is the intent of this ordinance that all questions of interpretation and
enforcement shall be first presented to the administrative official, and that
such questions shall be presented to the Board of Zoning Appeals only on appeal
from the decision of the administrative official, and that recourse from the
decisions of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be to the courts as provided by
law.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-138 Schedule of Fees, Charges, and Expenses.
   The Town Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and expenses
and a collection procedure for building permits, certificates of zoning
compliance, appeals, and other matters pertaining to this ordinance. The
schedule of fees shall be posted in the Office of the Administrative Official,
and may be altered or amended only by the Town Council.
   Until all applicable fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in full, no
action shall be taken on any application or appeal.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-139 Amendments.
   The regulations, restrictions, and boundaries set forth in this ordinance
may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, or repealed, provided
however that no such action may be taken until after a public hearing in
relation thereto, at which parties in interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-140 Provisions of Ordinance Declared to be Minimum Requirements.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this ordinance
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals or general welfare. Wherever the requirements of
this ordinance are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully
adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions, or covenants, the
most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall govern. (Ord. No.
2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-141 Complaints Regarding Violations.
   Whenever a violation of this ordinance occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully
the causes and basis thereof shall be filed with the administrative official.
He shall record properly such complaint, immediately investigate, and take
action thereon as provided by this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-142 Penalties for Violation.
   Violation of the provisions of this ordinance or failure to comply with any
of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grant of variances or special exceptions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this ordinance or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) and in addition shall
pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part thereof,
and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Town from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-143 Severability Clause.
   Should any section or provision of this ordinance be declared by the courts
to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the ordinance as a whole, or any part thereof other than the part so
declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-144 Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances - Effective Date.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this zoning
ordinance, or inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance, are hereby
repealed to the extent necessary to give this ordinance full force and effect.
   This Ordinance shall become effective on passage.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-145  Reserved for Future Use.
Sec. 10-146 Sign Regulations.
Sec. 10-146.1 General Provisions.
   This is an ordinance regulating the construction, erection and placement of
signs in the Town of Dyer, Lake County, Indiana.
   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect,
repair (other than ordinary and necessary maintenance), alter or relocate,
within the Town of Dyer, (except for a simple name change) any permanent sign
(except for nameplate and occupant signs as hereinafter allowed) or any
temporary sign greater than twelve (12) square feet, and temporary commercial
signs as identified in Section
10-146.6 (g - l) and (n - p) and (s), or advertising structure as defined in
this ordinance, without first obtaining a building permit and making payment of
the fee required by ordinance. All illuminated signs shall, in addition, be
subject to the provisions of the Electrical Code of the Town and the permit
fees required thereunder.
      Additions to existing signs shall require that the applicant provide a
picture of the existing sign as well as a picture of the proposed addition to
the existing sign.
   2.   Application for building permits shall be made upon forms provided by
the Building Department, and shall contain or have attached thereto the
following information:
      a.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant and their
relationship to the property;
      b.   Location of building, structure, or lot to which or upon which the
sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected;
      c.   Two (2) permanent prints or ink drawings of the plans and
specifications, and method of construction and attachment to the building or in
the ground and showing the position of the sign or other advertising structure
in relation to nearby buildings, structures and lot lines;
      d.   When deemed necessary by the Building Inspector, because of wind
loads, live and or dead loads, calculations prepared by a registered
professional engineer in the State of Indiana indicating that the sign and
supports are adequate shall be submitted;
      e.   Name of person, firm, corporation, or association erecting
structures;
      f.   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure, or land to
which or on which the sign is to be erected;
      g.   Any electrical permit required and issued for said sign;
      h.   Insurance policy or bond (on contractor) as required by ordinance;
      i.   Such other information as the Building Inspector shall require to
show compliance with this section and all other laws and ordinances of the
Town.
   3.   The applicant for a permit for erection of a sign or other advertising
structure in which electrical wiring and/or connections are to be used shall be
submitted to the Electrical Inspector. The Electrical Inspector shall determine
if the wiring and/or connections comply with the Electrical Code of the Town.
   4.   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator and/or the Building
Inspector, upon the filing of an application for a building permit, to examine
such plans, specifications, other data and/or the premises upon which it is
proposed to erect the sign or other advertising structure is in compliance with
all the requirements of this section and all other laws and ordinances of the
Town, then issue the building permit. If the work authorized under a building
permit has not been completed within six (6) months after the date of issuance,
said permit shall become null and void.
   5.   If the Zoning Administrator or designee shall find that any sign or
other advertising structure regulated herein is unsafe or insecure, or is a
menace to the public, or has been constructed or erected or is being maintained
in violation of the provisions of this section, or is no longer advertising a
bona fide business conducted or product sold on the premises where the sign is
located, he shall give written notice to the permittee thereof. If the
permittee fails to remove or alter the structure so as to comply with the
standards herein set forth within three (3) days after such notice, such sign
or other advertising structure may be removed or altered to comply by the
Zoning Administrator or designee at the expense of the permittee. The Zoning
Administrator shall refuse to issue a permit to any permittee or owner who
refuses to pay costs so assessed. The Zoning Administrator or designee may
cause any sign or other advertising structure which is an immediate peril to
person or property to be removed summarily and without notice.
   6.   Every sign or other advertising structure hereafter erected shall have
printed in a conspicuous place thereon, in letters not less than one (1) inch
high, the date of erection and the permit number.
   7.   The owner of any sign as defined by this ordinance and regulated by
this section shall properly maintain all parts and supports of said sign.
   8.   All signs and other advertising structures shall be designed and
constructed to withstand a wind pressure of not less than twenty (20) pounds
per square foot of area.
   9.   All size limitations listed elsewhere in this section shall be for net
surface area per display surface unless otherwise indicated. The gross area for
all signs plus the supporting structures shall in no case exceed two hundred
percent (200%) of the net surface area permitted.
   10.   No sign shall be placed in such a manner that it would block or
obscure the vision of the driver of a motor vehicle stopped at a stop sign,
traffic light, or entrance to a public street for a distance of two hundred
(200) feet in any direction in which there is oncoming traffic.
   11.   No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent
free ingress to or egress from any door, window, fire escape, or public
walkway.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-146.2 Prohibited Signs.
   The following signs are expressly prohibited for erection, construction,
maintenance, repair, alteration, location, or relocation, within the Town of
Dyer except as exempt under Section
10-146.8.
   1.   Flashing signs - signs which flash in excess of six (6) times per
minute except for electronic text messaging centers.
   2.   Moving signs - signs which move or rotate more than one (1) revolution
per minute.
   3.   Signs displaying lewd, illegal, or immoral matter as defined in
Ordinance 92-9, The Dyer Nuisance Ordinance. (See Section
6-64)
   4.   Any sign advertising a business, product, or service, not available on
the premises where the sign is located except as permitted in section
10-146.3 Off Premises signs.
   5.   Signs identifying past services performed on a building or to premises,
e.g., “Roof by ...”.
   6.   Signs on fences, utility poles, street lights or trees.
   7.   Signs in public rights-of-way except in the case where a dividing
“island” exists between two (2) sections of streets as long as the ability to
see oncoming traffic is not restricted by said sign. Also, except for traffic
signs erected by a governmental unit such as a stop sign, a speed limit sign,
railroad crossing, etc.
   8.   Signs which are confusingly similar or resemble or in any way imitate
any official marker erected by the Town, state, or other governmental unit or
agency, or which by reason of position, shape, or color would confuse or
conflict with the proper functioning of any traffic sign or signal, or railroad
device.
   9.   Signs on any property without the consent of the party having the right
of present possession.
   10.   Signs extending over or placed upon a public sidewalk, alley, or
right-of-way except as permitted in Section
10-146.12.
   11.   All signs not specifically allowed by the provisions of this section.
   12.   Billboards except as allowed by special exception by the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
If the Board of Zoning Appeals grants said special exception it shall find that
a billboard shall not be permitted within three hundred (300) feet of a
residential district, street intersection, or railroad crossing. There shall be
a minimum of eight hundred (800) feet between billboards on the same side of a
street or highway, and shall not be closer than twenty (20) feet to a dedicated
right-of-way. A billboard shall not be permitted within two hundred (200) feet
of an existing building. In the event a building is constructed within two
hundred (200) feet of a billboard during the term of the billboard permit, the
billboard shall be removed within twelve (12) months of the date of issuance of
an occupancy permit relevant to the building so constructed. Billboards shall
only be permitted in B-3 and I zoning districts. A billboard permit must comply
with the above restrictions and once issued, shall be subject to annual renewal
upon payment of the permit fee and review by the Zoning Administrator.
   13.   Roof signs-except as allowed by special exception by the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-146.3 Off Premises Signs.
   Off premises signs are signs which indicate only the location and direction
to a business. Such signs must be located within one-half (½) mile of the
business. Further, such signs shall be limited to thirty-two (32) square feet.
(This section replaces the previous section which was Billboards.)
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-146.4 Restrictions.
   In addition to all other provisions and restrictions of this section, the
following signs shall conform as follows:
   1.   Freestanding signs.
      a.   Location - Height and Area Limitations. It shall be unlawful to
erect any freestanding sign in the total height of which is greater than twenty
(20) feet above the level of the street upon which the sign faces, or above the
adjoining ground level if such ground level is below the street level. A
freestanding sign shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in display
area per side.
      b.   Placement. A freestanding sign shall not be nearer than two (2) feet
to any building or structure, or nearer than twenty (20) feet to any other free
standing sign and must be set back at least five (5) feet from any public
right-of-way.
      c.   Display Surface. A freestanding sign having more than one (1)
display surface shall be limited to a net area of one hundred (100) square feet
on any display plane; provided however, if the internal angle between the two
(2) planes is more than ninety degrees (90°), the adjoining planes shall be
considered as one (1) plane. The total of all display surfaces shall not exceed
two hundred (200) square feet.
      d.   Erection, Bracing, Anchorage, and Supports. A freestanding sign
shall be securely built, constructed and erected upon posts and standards sunk
at least three and one-half (3½) feet below the natural surface of the ground
and shall be adequately braced to prevent overturning.
      e.   Structures, Etc.,To Be Treated With An Appropriate Wood
Preservative. All posts, anchors, and bracing of wood which rest upon or enter
into the ground shall be treated to protect them from moisture by creosoting or
other appropriate method of protection.
      f.   Illuminated Signs. All illuminated freestanding signs shall also
conform to the provisions below in paragraphs 3 and 4 as well as to the
provisions in the Exterior Lighting Regulations Ordinance.
   2.   Wall Mounted Signs. A wall mounted sign shall be safely and securely
attached to the building wall. In no case shall any wall mounted sign be
secured with wire, strips of wood, or nails. A wall mounted sign shall be
limited to two (2) square feet in area for each one (1) linear foot of frontage
of the structure on which it is to be placed for buildings/businesses located
up to fifty (50) feet from the public right-of-way and three (3) square feet in
area for each one (1) linear foot of frontage of the structure on which it is
to be placed for buildings/businesses located more than fifty (50) feet from
the public right-of-way. An illuminated wall mounted sign shall also conform to
the provisions in paragraphs 3 and 4.
   3.   Internally Illuminated Signs.
      a.   In no case shall the medium of illumination be visible.
      b.   In no case shall the lighting intensity exceed the limit of thirty
(30) footcandles measured with a standard light meter perpendicular to the face
of the sign at a distance equal to the narrower dimension of the sign, whether
it be the height or the width.
   4.   Externally Illuminated Signs.
      a.   The average level of illumination on the vertical surface of the
sign shall not exceed 10.0 footcandles, and the ratio of average to minimum
illumination shall not exceed 2:1. The average reading is determined by taking
readings at the four (4) corners or equivalent and the center of the sign .
      b.   Lighting fixtures illuminating signs shall be located, aimed, and
shielded so that light is directed only onto the sign facade and shall not
extend beyond the edges of the sign. Lighting fixtures shall not be aimed
toward adjacent streets, roads, or properties.
      c.   Light fixtures illuminating signs shall be of a type such that the
light source is not directly visible from adjacent streets roads, or
properties.
      d.   Fixtures used to illuminate signs stall be top-mounted and directed
below the horizontal.
      e.   The light reflectance shall be measured with a standard light meter
held one (1) foot perpendicular from the surface of the sign.   
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-146.5 Signs in Residential Districts.
   1.   In residential districts signs shall be limited to a maximum of fifty
(50) feet in gross surface area. Signs which measure twelve (12) square feet or
less in gross surface area shall not be required to obtain a permit unless such
sign is illuminated in which case it would be required to obtain an electrical
permit. Temporary signs as defined in this ordinance, and which measure twelve
(12) square feet or less in gross surface area are also exempt from the
requirement to obtain a permit. Signs used for the purpose of advertising an
allowed home operation shall be limited to one (1) square foot in size. All
signs must be at least five (5) feet from any property line and cannot overhang
a public street, alley or sidewalk. Signs in residential zoning districts shall
be limited to a maximum of ten (10) feet in height.
   2.   The following signs are hereby expressly prohibited in residential
districts for erection, maintenance, construction, repair, alteration, location
or relocation:
      a.   Roof signs.
      b.   Signs advertising products or services for sale, use or rent, except
the subject real estate which is itself for sale or rent (see Section
10-146.11(8) Temporary Signs), except as otherwise allowed.
      c.   Pennants - except in connection with a yard/garage sale and only for
the duration of the sale.
      d.   Streamers - except in connection with a yard/garage sale and only
for the duration of the sale.
      e.   Signs with neon lights.
      f.   Signs with interchangeable letters unless such changeable board is
enclosed behind a lockable transparent door.
      g.   Prohibited signs as defined in section
10-146.2.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-146.6 Signs in B-2, B-3 and I Districts.
   In B-2, B-3, and I districts, the following regulations shall apply:
   1.   General Provisions. Permanent signs which measure twelve (12) square
feet or less in gross surface area shall not be required to obtain a permit
unless such sign is illuminated in which case it would be required to obtain an
electrical permit. Temporary signs as defined below, and which measure twelve
(12) square feet or less in gross surface area are also exempt from the
requirement to obtain a permit.
      a.   All signs shall be set back a minimum of five (5) feet from any
public right-of-way.
      b.   All signs permitted in residential districts shall be permitted in
these areas.
      c.   Each business shall be permitted to have a specified amount of
signage based upon the linear front footage of the building, or portion of the
building, occupied by the business, and based upon its setback distance from
its front property line. Said signage may be located on one (1) or more sides
of the building in which the business is located as long as the total square
footage of the signage does not exceed two (2) square feet in area for each
front foot of the structure, or portion of the structure, in which the use is
conducted for businesses set back up to fifty (50) feet from any public right-
of-way and three (3) square feet for each front foot of the structure, or
portion of the structure, in which the use is conducted for businesses set back
in excess of fifty (50) feet from any public right-of-way.
      d.   An allowable sign shall be either wall mounted or freestanding, but
shall not be a combination unless permitted under section
10-146.6 2. of this ordinance. The total net area of a freestanding sign shall
not exceed that allowed for the frontage sign and in no case shall exceed one
hundred (100) square feet. No business shall erect more than one (1)
freestanding sign except, however, wherever a building has a rear or side
parking lot or lots, or adjoins a public street, a second freestanding sign
shall be permitted for only one (1) side or rear (in addition to the allowed
front freestanding sign) provided that the sum total of square feet for the
additional sign does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the allowed area of the
front freestanding sign. Shopping centers and planned unit development-
commercial buildings may be allowed one (1) freestanding sign for each six (6)
tenants or fractions thereof. Further, in the event that more than one (1)
freestanding sign is permitted by virtue of this section, there shall be a
minimum distance between such signs of thirty three percent (33%) of the linear
frontage of the building(s) which they serve.
      e.   In cases where the building has a side or rear parking lot which
faces or adjoins a residential district, a sign may be located on such side or
rear of the building and shall be developed to the same standards as are
required in paragraph d. above provided, however, that said sign if
illuminated, shall be indirectly lighted in such a manner as not to be
disturbing to the adjoining residential district.
      f.   A non-illuminated or illuminated sign bearing the name and/or the
type of business of the principal tenant or tenants occupying space in the
building that does not have space with an exterior wall provided shall be
permitted. However, that sign shall be located at the principal entrance to the
building where such occupied space is located and the total area of such signs
devoted to each occupant shall not exceed two hundred (200) square inches, and
the total area of such sign shall not exceed eight (8) square feet.
      g.   Two (2) business signs painted on the windows and or doors of each
business bearing the name, street number and or type of business of the
principal occupant; provided, however, that there shall be not more than one
(1) such sign on each window or door, and said sign shall not exceed six (6)
square feet in area and the total area of all signs shall not exceed nine (9)
square feet.
      h.   A business sign painted on the valance of an awning bearing only the
name of the principal occupant and or the street number of such businesses;
provided, however, that a sign shall not exceed a total of two (2) square feet
for each linear foot of frontage of the structure or portion of the structure
in which the use is conducted for buildings set back up to fifty (50) feet from
any public right-of-way of three (3) square feet for each linear foot of
frontage of the structure or portion of the structure in which the use is
conducted for buildings set back more than fifty (50) feet from any public
right-of-way.
      i.   A sign required by law to be exhibited by the occupant of the
premises; provided, however, that the said sign shall not exceed six (6) square
feet in gross surface area.
      j.   A sign serving the public convenience, such as a “notary public,”
“public telephone,” “public restroom,” or words or directions of similar import
provided, however, that such signs shall not exceed seventy two (72) square
inches in total gross surface area and only one (1) sign of each type shall be
displayed at the building.
      k.   Window/door signs shall not be placed in such a manner that they
would impair the ability to see inside a building from either a street or a
parking lot (for safety reasons) and shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of
the total exterior window space.
      l.   Streamers and pennants shall be allowed so long as they are properly
maintained.
      m.   In the case of drive-in or drive-through merchandising businesses,
two (2) informational (menu, price, etc.) signs shall be allowed, not exceeding
fifty (50) square feet in gross area for each sign.
      n.   Temporary non-electrical signs announcing or advertising any
educational, charitable, philanthropic, civic, religious, drive, movement or
event shall be allowed for a period not to exceed fourteen (14) days preceding
the event. The location of such signs shall be erected or placed in such a way
as not to obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic or vision of persons using
the public roadways within the Town of Dyer. The sign shall be removed within
three (3) days following the event advertised.
      o.   A non-illuminated temporary sign pertaining to the sale or lease of
the premises upon which it is placed and not exceeding thirty-two (32) square
feet in gross surface area, provided that said sign shall be removed within
seven (7) days after the consummation of the sale or lease of the premises or
the termination of the agent's authority.
      p.   A non-illuminated temporary sign bearing only the street number of a
new or remodeled structure and the name or names of the general contractor,
subcontractor, owner and tenant, during construction work on the premises upon
which they are placed, not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in total gross
area of all such signs, provided that said sign or signs shall be removed
within seven (7) days after substantial completion of the construction work and
in no event shall be exhibited for more than twenty-four (24) months.
      q.   Banners.
         1.   A business may be allowed to erect one (1) banner at a time, for
a maximum period of two (2) calendar months for each message. Said banner shall
be allowed to be up to thirty-two (32) square feet on any size building and
further shall be allowed to be as large as two (2) square feet in area per one
(1) linear foot of the wall of the building on which the banner is posted; said
banner shall also be attached to an existing building and shall not cover an
exterior window. A banner must be rated to withstand sixty (60) pounds of wind
pressure per square foot. A permit must be obtained prior to the posting of a
banner. If a business is located on a corner lot, it may be allowed to erect an
additional banner on one (1) side of the building in addition to a banner
erected on the principal frontage of the building.
         2.   Upon the issuance of a permit for a banner, the banner will be
deemed to have remained posted for its fully allocated period. In other words,
if a banner is posted for less than the time period specified on the permit
application, the difference cannot be added to a future posting of a banner.
         3.   An annual banner permit fee shall be permitted under the
following conditions:
            (a)   Banner cannot cover an exterior window;
            (b)   Message must be changed no less frequently than every sixty
(60) days;
            (c)   Banner must be attached to the building or unit that it
serves;
            (d)   Banner cannot be placed on an accessory structure;
            (e)   Annual banner permits shall be prorated from the first day of
the month in which they are issued; or
            (f)   See Town Code Section
7-63 for permit fee.
      r.   Portable signs which advertise temporary sales promotions or special
events shall be permitted as follows:
         1.   An existing business may use a portable sign up to two (2) times
per calendar year not to exceed fifteen (15) days per posting except that at
the permittee's discretion, the postings may be for individual time periods or
consecutive time periods.
         2.   Portable signs are limited to thirty-two (32) square feet in
area.
         3.   Portable signs require a permit and may not be closer than four
hundred (400) feet to another portable sign.
      s.   Sandwich boards.
         1.   Cannot be placed on public right-of-way;
         2.   Are limited to eight (8) square feet on size;
         3.   Can only be displayed during regular business hours;
         4.   Are limited to one per frontage and one per building/unit;
         5.   Must be within ten (10) feet of the building/unit it serves.
   2.   The following regulations shall apply to businesses in buildings which
are set back more than fifty (50) feet from a public street.
      a.   In addition to those signs permitted in section
10-146.6(1), a shopping center whose building or buildings are all set back
more than fifty (50) feet from the nearest public street shall be permitted one
(1) freestanding sign not exceeding one hundred (100) square feet in gross
surface area per display area, for each six (6) tenants or fraction thereof, in
the shopping center. Further, in the event that more than one (1) freestanding
sign is permitted by virtue of this section, there shall be a minimum distance
between such signs of thirty-three percent (33%) of the linear frontage of the
building(s) which they serve. Such sign shall not project within or be closer
than five (5) feet to any property line. The sign permitted by this section
shall be additional to the sign authorized by section
10-146.6(1) only if the sign constructed pursuant to section
10-146.6(1) is a wall mounted sign.
      b.   In addition to those signs allowed in section
10-146.6(1), any business except gasoline service stations and public garages,
in a building set back more than fifty (50) feet from the nearest public street
and not part of a shopping center, shall be permitted one (1) freestanding sign
not exceeding two (2) square feet in area for each linear foot of frontage of
the structure or portion of the structure in which the use is conducted, but in
no case exceeding one hundred (100) square feet in gross surface area. Such
sign shall not project within or be closer than five (5) feet to any property
line. This section shall not be construed to allow more than one (1)
freestanding sign. The sign permitted by this section shall be additional to
the sign authorized by Section
10-146.6(1) only if the sign constructed pursuant to section
10-146.6(1) is a wall mounted sign.
      c.   A business or businesses with attached parking lot may erect free
standing traffic directional signs, each not to exceed four (4) square feet of
gross surface area and not to be higher than three (3) feet from the ground.
Such signs may be illuminated. Such signs shall bear no advertising matter
other than logos or business names.
   3.   Gasoline Service Stations and Public Garages. In addition to the signs
allowed elsewhere in this section, gasoline service stations and public garages
may display the following special signs which are deemed customary and
necessary to their respective businesses.
      a   A direction sign or lettering displayed over individual entrance
doors or bays consisting only of the words “washing,” “lubrication,” “repairs,”
“mechanic on duty” or other words of similar import; provided, however, that
there shall not be more than one (1) sign over each entrance or bay, the
letters thereof shall not exceed six (6) inches in height and the total gross
area of each such sign shall not exceed three (3) square feet.
      b.   Customary lettering other than insignia which is a part of a
gasoline pump, consisting only of the brand name of gasoline sold, type of
service available, lead warning sign, a price indicator and any other sign
required by law, all of which shall not exceed a total gross area of three (3)
square feet on each side of the pump.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-146.7 Signs in B-1 Business Districts.
   The sign regulations in B-1 districts shall be the same as those for B-
3 districts, except as follows:
   If the B-1 district is immediately adjacent to a residential zoning district
then any illuminated signs shall be indirectly lighted and shall not be
disturbing to the adjacent or adjoining residential district.
(Ord. No. 2007-33,12-27-07)
Sec. 10-146.8 Exemptions.
   The provisions and regulations of this proposed sign ordinance shall not
apply to the following:
   1.   Cornerstones or names of buildings inscribed in stone or bronze as part
of the building or structure provided they are no larger than ten (10) square
feet for each display surface.
   2.   Signs erected by a governmental unit.
   3.   All signs within buildings.
   4.   Flags of the Town, the State of Indiana, or the United States of
America, including such flags as POW/MIA.
   5.   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property,
but bearing no advertising matter other than logos or business names and
limited to a maximum of four (4) square feet in size.
   6.   Banners mounted on street light poles by the Town or an agent of the
Town.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-146.9 Enforcement.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates or fails to comply with this
section or any plan thereof shall be punished by a fine not to exceed twenty-
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). Every day any violation of this section shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-146.10 Sign Permit Fees.
   See Schedule of fees and permits. (See Section
7-63 of this Code)
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-146.11 Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.   Portable Sign.  Any device designed to inform or attract attention of
persons not on the premises on which the device is located, which device can be
easily transported or carried from place to place and which is not attached to
the real estate on which it is located in a permanent manner.
   2.   Sandwich Sign. A device limited in size to eight (8) square feet which
is place in front of a building advertising such things as daily specials and
can be posted only during the hours of operation of the business and which must
not be placed on a public right-of-way. Such device may be and frequently is,
in the shape of an A frame.
   3.   Sign. Any device designated to inform or attract attention of persons
not on the premises on withc the sign is located, provided however that the
following shall not be included in the application of the regulations herein:
      a.   Signs not exceeding one (1) square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers post box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or other
identification of premises not having commercial connotations.
      b.   Legal notices; identification, information, or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies.
      c.   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights.
      d.   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private property,
but bearing no advertising matter other than logos and business names and
limited to a maximum of four (4) square feet in size.
   4.   Signs - Number and Surface Area. For the purpose of determining the
number of signs, a sign shall be considered to be a single display surface or
display device containing elements organized, related, and composed to form a
unit. Where matter is displayed in a random manner without organized
relationship of elements, or where there is reasonable doubt about the
relationship of elements each element shall be considered to be a single sign.
The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the entire area
within a regular geometric form or combinations of regular geometric forms
comprising of all of the display area of the sign and including all of the
elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not bearing
advertising matter shall not be included in computation of surface area.
   5.   Signs - Off Site.  Signs other than on-site signs.
   6.   Signs - On-Site.  A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises
on which it is located, or to products, accommodations, services, or activities
on the premises.
   7.   Structure.  Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on
the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include buildings, mobile homes, walls, fences,
billboards, signs, and poster panels.
   8.   Temporary signs. Signs advertising or identifying an infrequent,
irregular or non-continuous event, sale or occasion. Such signs are limited in
duration to thirty (30) days posting and are subject to all other regulations
of this ordinance concerning setbacks from property lines. Temporary signs
which are less than twelve (12) square feet in gross surface area shall not be
illuminated and shall not be required to obtain a permit. Among others,
political and for sale/rent signs shall be considered to be temporary signs.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-146.12 Signs in Special Use Districts.
   The sign regulations in the Special Use District (SUD) shall be the same as
those for B-1, B-2 and B-3 Districts, except that:
   1.   Buildings located in the Special Use District shall be permitted to
have both a free standing sign as well as wall mounted signage regardless of
their setbacks from their respective property lines. Free standing signs shall
be allowed to be two (2) square feet in size for each linear foot of frontage
of the building that it serves up to a maximum of one hundred (100) square
feet. Wall mounted signage is limited to two (2) square feet for each linear
foot of frontage of the building it serves or the unit within the building that
it serves.
   2.   Signs in this district shall be allowed to extend over a public
sidewalk as long as a minimum vertical clearance of eight (8) feet exists
between the bottom of the sign and the public sidewalk.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)   
Sec. 10-147 Landscaping Requirements.
Sec. 10-147.1 Purpose.
   This landscaping ordinance, which includes Appendices A through D to Ord.
2021-30, underscores the essential role that landscape materials play in the
responsible development of real property and establishes meaningful standards
for the design, installation, maintenance and preservation of landscaping
throughout the Town. The minimum landscape standards it contains are intended
to benefit the public welfare through improved aesthetics, preservation of
greenspace, improved or maintained air quality, and reduction of storm water
runoff, glare and heat build-up.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2021-30, § 1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 10-147.2 Applicability.
   a.   General. These minimum landscape standards apply to all public and
private Multi-Family Residential, Commercial, Institutional and Industrial
developments in the Town, except that previously approved developments need not
comply unless new site development approval is sought. However, in developments
located within a designated Special Use District (SUD), if these landscaping
requirements conflict with the SUD’s developmental standards for landscaping,
the SUD developmental standards prevail.
   b.   Modifications. An existing building or site may be renovated or
repaired without providing additional landscaping except when:
      1.   An addition, alteration, or enlargement to an existing building
expands the original building square footage by twenty-five percent (25%) or
more, singularly or collectively, excluding single- family dwellings.
      2.   There is a creation of, or increase in, residential units within an
existing building, excluding single-family dwellings.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2021-30, § 1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 10-147.3 General Requirements.
All plant materials required by this ordinance must be living and meet the
requirements contained in this ordinance. No artificial plant may be installed
or counted as part of the plantings required by this ordinance.
For the purposes of this section, one (1) tree equals five (5) shrubs. A
developer may substitute up to twenty-five percent (25%) of the total trees
required under this section with shrubs, at a ratio of five (5) shrubs for
every one, (1) tree substituted. Conversely, a developer may substitute up to
twenty-five percent (25%) of the total shrubs required under this section with
trees, at a ratio of one (1) tree for every five (5) shrubs substituted.
   a.   Planting Standards.
      1.   All plant materials required by this ordinance must be free of
disease, insects, and damage and correctly labeled indicating genus, species
and cultivar at the time of the final inspection by Town staff or designee.
      2.   All plants must be A-Grade or Number-One Grade and free of defects,
of normal health, height, leaf density, and spread as defined by the American
Standard for Nursery Stock, ANSI Z60.1, latest available edition, American
Association of Nurserymen (AAN).
      3.   Plants must have full, even, well-developed branching and a dense,
fibrous, and vigorous root system.
      4.   All plant materials must be capable to withstand the seasonal
temperature variations of northwestern Indiana, as well as the individual site
microclimate.
      5.   The use of species native or naturalized to northwestern Indiana is
encouraged.
      6.   All areas not landscaped with hedges, walls or trees must have grass
or another acceptable vegetative ground cover. No required landscaping area may
be covered with rock, mulch or other non-living material This provision does
not prohibit the placement of mulch around plantings.
   b.   Installation.
      1.   All landscaping must be installed according to sound horticultural
practices in a manner designed to encourage quick establishment and healthy
growth.
      2.   The planting patterns of plant material must be staggered and mixed
in order to avoid long, monotonous and repetitive edges, especially along
roadways.
   c.   Conflicts in Standards. In any case, except within a designated Special
Use District (SUD), in which conflicts exist between the landscaping
requirements of this ordinance and the landscaping requirements of any other
applicable Town Code Sections, the stricter standard applies.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-05; Am. Ord. No. 2021-30, § 1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 10-147.4 Landscape Plan Submission Requirements.
Where required, a landscape plan must conform to the following requirements:
   a.   A landscape plan is required for each lot within a proposed
development. The landscape plan should be prepared by a landscape architect,
nurseryman, or other professional experienced in landscape design and the
installation and care of plant materials.
   b.   All landscape plans submitted for approval as a component of a required
site plan must show the entire zoning lot to scale, on twenty-four (24") inch
by thirty-six (36") inch sheets and contain the following information:
      1.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures,
parking lots and drives, roadways and rights-of-way, sidewalks, bicycle paths,
ground signs, refuse disposal areas, bicycle parking areas, freestanding
electrical equipment, recreation facilities, utility lines and easements,
freestanding structural features, and other landscape improvements, such as
earth berms, walls fences, screens, sculptures, fountains, street furniture,
lights, and courts or paved areas;
      2.   The name and address of the owner, developer, and plan preparer, the
date the plan was prepared, scale, and north arrow;
      3.   The location, quantity, size, and name, both botanical and common,
of all proposed planting materials;
      4.   The locations, size, and common name of existing trees and
individual shrubs, areas of dense trees or shrubs, and other natural features,
indicating which are to be preserved and which are to be removed;
      5.   The approximate location and generic identification of existing
structures and plant materials within the yard of adjoining properties;
      6.   Existing and proposed grading of the site, including proposed
berming, indicating contours at not more than two (2')-foot intervals;
      7.   Specifications of the type and boundaries of all proposed vegetative
ground cover to Design of fences and other significant accessory structures;
      8.   The location of barriers to be placed at or beyond the drip line of
any trees to be preserved, and the type of material to be used for the barrier;
      9.   Planting and installation details as necessary to ensure conformance
with all required standards;
      10.   Details indicating specific grading measures or other protective
devices where trees are to be preserved in areas of cut and fill; and
      11.   A tabulation clearly displaying the relevant statistical
information necessary for the Plan Commission to evaluate compliance with the
provisions of this ordinance.
   c.   Any existing vegetation not of the species and type included in
Appendix D of Ord. 2021-30, that is retained, and that otherwise meets the
species and location requirements of this ordinance, may be counted one and
one-half (1.5) times towards fulfilling the minimum landscaping requirements,
subject to the approval of the Plan Commission or its designee. No construction
activity of any kind may occur within the area defined by the drip-line of any
vegetation that is to be retained and counted as fulfilling these requirements.
Any retained existing vegetation may be replaced only with a species and type
outlined in Appendices A, B, or C of Ord. 2021-30 if the retained vegetation
dies.
   d.   All new trees required to be planted by this ordinance are measured as
follows:
      1.   All deciduous and ornamental trees must be at least two and one-half
(2½") inches in diameter at the time of planting, measured at six (6") inches
above the root ball.
      2.   All evergreen trees must be a minimum of five (5') feet in height at
the time of planting, measured from the top of the root ball.
      3.   All shrubs must be a minimum of eighteen (18") inches in height at
the time of planting, measured from the top of the root ball.
      4.   Earth mounds and berms are physical barriers that block or screen
the view similar to a hedge, fence or wall. Mounds must be constructed with
proper and adequate plant material to prevent erosion. A difference in
elevation between areas requiring screening does not constitute an existing
earth mound and does not fulfill any screening requirement. Where mounds are to
be mowed, the maximum permitted slope is 3:1 (run:rise).
      5.   Grass must be planted in species normally grown as permanent lawns
in northern Indiana. In swales or other areas subject to erosion, solid sod, an
erosion reducing net or suitable must be used.
(Ord. No. 2021-30, § 1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 10-147.5 Parkway Landscaping.
The Landscape Parkway is intended to provide a landscaped area between the
roadway and adjacent development to provide shade and visual enhancement along
the public right-of-way. Additional facilities are encouraged with pedestrian
sidewalks, crosswalks and other amenities to create a desirable environment.
   a.   A minimum number of parkway trees are required per lineal feet of
frontage for all development. On a corner lot, the requirements of this section
apply along both frontages. The parkway must contain a minimum of one (1)
canopy tree per forty (40') linear feet, or fraction thereof, of the entire
road frontage.
   b.   The parkway must be planted with grass or low ground cover, except
where occupied by trees, tree grates or equivalent, paved areas for outdoor
seating, site furnishings or other pedestrian amenities, driveway pavement,
plant materials, or decorative brick pavers.
   c.   Parkway trees consist of recommended shade tree species unless overhead
utilities exist or if the street is known to be subject to widening in the
future.
   d.   Parkway design must ensure adequate sight visibility for motorists,
adequate clearance for pedestrians and vehicles, allow for visibility of
businesses and storefronts in a commercial area and clearance from overhead
utility lines.
   e.   Evergreen trees are not allowed in any parkway.
   f.   Trees must be planted on the centerline of parkways or as close to five
(5') feet from the sidewalk as possible, whichever distance is greater, and
located so as not to interfere with overhead wires, traffic or pedestrian
safety.
   g.   Other than trees, no landscaping in the parkway may be taller than
three (3') feet. No landscaping taller than two (2') feet may be located within
six (6') feet of fire hydrants or buffalo boxes.
   h.   Loose stone, rock, or gravel is prohibited in public parkways.
Compacted cobbles, flagstone, or other rocks may be approved if compacted
firmly into the ground or mortared, reducing risk of being scattered in the
street, as determined by the Town.
(Ord. No. 2021-30, § 1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 10-147.6 Screening.
Ground mounted heating and cooling units and above ground fuel tanks must be
screened from view from public streets and/or adjacent properties.
   a.   All trash dumpsters, trash pads, loading areas, loading docks, building
service areas and outside storage areas shall be screened from view from land
in a residential zone and must be screened from view and if visible from a
public street. Permissible screening means are a minimum six foot (6') high
opaque fence, wall, berm or evergreen screen.
   b.   Vision clearance triangles must be kept clear of landscape materials
greater than two (2) feet in height.
   c.   All trees and shrubs must be planted a minimum of five (5) feet behind
the right-of-way line.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-147.7 Buffer Yard.
   The requirements of this ordinance apply to buffer yards required elsewhere
in the Town Code, as well as parking lots.
   a.   Buffer yards intended to physically separate and visually screen
adjacent land uses that are not fully compatible must be a solid, opaque screen
of at least six (6) feet in height. Plants used exclusively for screening must
be at least six (6) feet in height at time of planting, must provide a solid
screen, and must provide said solid screen year round.
   b.   Buffer yards that separate compatible uses are required to have a
minimum of one (1) deciduous tree and five (5) shrubs for every five hundred
(500) square feet of adjacency.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2021-30, § 1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 10-147.8 Property Interior Requirements.
   Landscaping is required on each lot based on the use of that lot as defined
in the Site Interior Planting Requirements table. (See below).
   a.   Mixed Use Properties. Where a lot is occupied by a combination of the
land uses listed in the Site Interior Plantings Requirements table, only the
plantings consistent with the requirements for the land use that would result
in the most landscaping is required.
   b.   Tree Locations. All required trees may be located in clusters or
dispersed throughout the yard.
   c.   Yard Calculations. Detention and retention ponds are computed at fifty
percent (50%) of their actual size for determining the yard area that either
comprises. Other areas required to be landscaped by this ordinance and required
buffer yards are not included in the calculation of yard area.
 
SITE INTERIOR PLANTING REQUIREMENTS TABLE
For this land use type:  1 deciduous, evergreen or ornamental tree is required
                         for every...
Multi-family residential 500 square feet of yard area
Commercial               500 square feet of yard area
Institutional            500 square feet of yard area
Industrial               500 square feet of yard area
 
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2021-30, § 1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 10-147.9 Parking Lot Requirements.
   a.   Parking Lot Perimeter Requirements. All parking lots, including parking
spaces, interior drives, and loading/unloading areas, must be separated from
all Thoroughfare Plan recommended street rights-of-way by a landscaping area
that is a minimum of ten (10) feet in width. The landscape area shall be
planted with either of the following options or a combination of both:
      1.   Trees and Shrubs. A minimum of one (1) tree is required for every
five hundred (500) square feet of landscaped area. The trees may be a
combination of deciduous, evergreen, and ornamental trees. In addition, a
minimum of one (1) shrub is required for every one hundred (100) square feet of
landscaped area.
      2.   Landscape Berm.  A landscaped berm that is a minimum of three (3)
feet in height is required provided along the length of the landscaped area. A
minimum of one (1) shrub is required for every five (5) linear feet of berm.
   b.   Parking Lot Interior Requirements. To help reduce excessive heat
buildup and emissions from large areas of hard surfacing, landscape areas are
required in parking lots.
      1.   Landscaped Areas Required. Landscape areas with a surface area equal
to five percent (5%) of the area of the paved surface (including all parking
spaces, interior drives, loading docks, drop-off/pick-up lanes, and access
drives beyond the right-of-way) are required in all parking lots.
      2.   Landscaped Area Standards. The required landscape areas must meet
the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   All required landscaped areas consist of curbed islands or
peninsulas surrounded on at least two (2) sides by pavement. Landscaping on the
perimeter of the parking lot does not count towards meeting this requirement.
         (b)   Landscape areas must be on a lot line that is immediately
adjacent to another commercial lot while at the same time leaving space for
vehicular and pedestrian access between adjacent commercial lots.
         (c)   A minimum of one (1) deciduous tree is required for every five
hundred (500) square feet of total landscaped area required in this section.
         (d)   A landscaped area is required at the end of every twenty (20)
parking spaces or one hundred (100) linear feet, whichever is less.
      3.   Vehicle Overhang. Parked vehicles may hang over the landscaped area
up to two and one-half (2½) feet. Overhang does not count as part of the
required parking space area.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2021-30, § 1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 10-147.10 Maintenance Requirements.
Trees, vegetation, irrigation systems, fences, walls and other landscape
elements are considered elements of a project in the same manner as parking and
other site details. The owner of the property is responsible for the continuous
proper maintenance of all landscaping materials, and must keep them free from
refuse and debris and in good repair at all times. The owner of the property
must either remove all debris before mowing of the landscaped area or bag as
the mowing activity occurs so as not to discharge debris onto neighboring
properties.
   a.   Replacement of Landscaping Materials. All unhealthy or dead plant
material must be replaced by the next planting season. Other required landscape
material that becomes defective must be replaced or repaired within three (3)
months of the occurrence of the defect.
   b.   Trimming Plant Material. Landscape materials are intended to grow,
spread and mature over time. Landscaping materials used to fulfill requirements
of this ordinance may not be pruned or otherwise treated to reduce overall
height or level of opacity below the minimum requirements. Pruning, limbing-up,
topping, and other inhibiting measures including removal may only be practiced
to ensure the public safety, to maintain a neat and attractive appearance, and
to preserve the relative health of the material involved.
(Ord. No. 2021-30, § 1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 10-147.11 Design Guidelines.
The Commission must use the following design guidelines to evaluate proposed
landscaping plans:
   a.   Landscape improvements should integrate the project to the site and
surrounding context, with particular sensitivity to the natural topography,
watercourses, and existing vegetation. Preservation of the existing landscape
material and land forms should be taken into account, particularly where mature
trees are a part of the site. Depending on the context, landscaping should
either offer a visual and physical connection or separation between land uses.
   b.   Landscaping design should have a natural aesthetic while having
proportion, balance, unity, variety of species, and variety of color throughout
the seasons, and consist of associations of plants with similar climate, water,
soil, sun exposure and maintenance needs.
   c.   The best professional practices of the American Society of Landscape
Architects and Indiana Nursery & Landscape Association are mandatory and
incorporated into this ordinance. In addition, guidelines proposed and
referenced through the Sustainable Sites Initiative should be utilized.
   d.   Landscaping should provide drifts and massing of plants with varying
texture, color, and forms to offset the mass of a building and to provide a
visual relief to the straight lines of building architecture, parking lots and
other man-made features.
   e.   Landscaping should reduce the intrusion of headlights and other glare
and provide a safety barrier between vehicles and pedestrians. Landscape
planting design must be designed to accommodate snow removal by providing
appropriate setbacks and storage space.
   f.   Landscaping should screen the view of utilities or mechanical
equipment. Existing site features within a required landscape zone which do not
function to meet the standards of the required landscape zone must be screened
from the view of other properties or removed, as determined during review of a
site plan or landscape plan.
   g.   If landscaping is used to screen service yards, utility meters and
hardware, overhead doors, mechanical equipment, dumpster enclosures, and/or
other potentially unattractive places from public view, landscape materials
must be planted in a natural type configuration and be equally effective in all
seasons.
   h.   Landscaping should shade seating, walking, and outdoor activity areas,
shield buildings from winter wind and summer sun so as to conserve energy and
should not interfere with clear access to the sun where solar energy collection
is anticipated.
   i.   Landscaping should provide a natural habitat for birds and other animal
life and should preserve existing natural vegetation and other natural features
(unless prohibited by building use and other agency restrictions).
   j.   Landscapes should be designed to encourage the minimum use of water,
inorganic fertilizers, herbicides, and pesticides in the development and long-
term maintenance of landscapes.
   k.   Irrigation systems may be required for certain landscaped areas, as
determined by a landscape architect. The need for sprinkler irrigation systems
is determined by the type of plant material and the condition/growing medium
that they are installed in. All irrigation systems must be designed to minimize
the use of water.
   l.   The Town Engineer must review all earth berm locations to determine how
the berms relate to drainage and public utilities. Berms may not exceed a
maximum slope of 3:1.
   m.   An appropriate sight triangle must be maintained at all intersections
and entryways to negate the impact of visual obstructions.
   n.   Nothing may be planted or installed within an underground or overhead
utility easement or any other easement without the consent of the Town and/or
the appropriate utility.
(Ord. No. 2021-30, § 1, 11-10-21)
Sec. 10-147.12 Parking Lot Perimeter Requirements.
   All parking lots, including parking spaces, interior drives, and loading/
unloading areas, shall be separated from all Thoroughfare Plan recommended
street rights-of-way by a landscaping area that is a minimum of ten (10) feet
in width. The landscape area shall be planted with either of the following
options or a combination of both:
   a.   Trees and Shrubs. A minimum of one (1) tree shall be provided for every
five hundred (500) square feet of landscaped area. The trees may be a
combination of deciduous, evergreen and or ornamental trees. In addition, a
minimum of one (1) shrub shall be provided for every one hundred (100) square
feet of landscaped area.
   b.   Landscape Berm.  A landscaped berm that is a minimum of three (3) feet
in height shall be provided along the length of the landscaped area. A minimum
of one (1) shrub shall be provided for every five (5) linear feet of berm.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-147.13 Parking Lot Interior Requirements. 
   To help reduce excessive heat buildup and emissions from large areas of hard
surfacing, landscape area must be provided within parking lots.
   a.   Landscaped Areas Required. Landscape areas with a surface area equal to
five percent (5%) of the area of the paved surface (including all parking
spaces, interior drives, loading docks, drop-off/pick-up lanes, and access
drives beyond the right-of-way) shall be provided in all parking lots.
   b.   Landscaped Area Standards. The required landscape areas shall meet the
following minimum requirements:
      1.   All required landscaped areas shall consist of curbed islands or
peninsulas that are surrounded on at least two (2) sides by pavement.
Landscaping on the perimeter of the parking lot shall not be counted toward
meeting this requirement.
      2.   Landscape areas must be located on a lot line that is immediately
adjacent to another commercial lot while at the same time leaving space for
vehicular and pedestrian access between adjacent commercial lots.
      3.   A minimum of one (1) deciduous tree shall be provided for every five
hundred (500) square feet of total landscaped area required in this section.
      4.   A landscaped area shall be provided at the end of every twenty (20)
parking spaces or one hundred (100) linear feet, whichever is less.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-147.14 Appendix A through D.
   Appendix A through D is incorporated herein by reference. It is on file in
the Office of the Clerk-Treasurer and available for public inspection during
regular business hours.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-148 Exterior Light Requirements.
Sec. 10-148.1 Purpose.
   The purpose of this Exterior Lighting Regulations Ordinance is to underscore
the essential role that exterior lighting plays in the responsible development,
use and maintenance of real property. The Exterior Lighting Regulations set
forth and established herein are intended to benefit the public welfare through
improved aesthetics and increased public safety by reduction of glare, visual
clutter, lighting trespass and urban sky glow.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-148.2 Applicability. 
   The Exterior Lighting Regulations set forth and established herein shall
apply to all commercial, industrial and institutional properties in the Town,
except that previously-approved development properties need not comply.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-148.3 Definitions.
   Unless the meaning and/or context clearly indicate otherwise, the following
definitions shall apply for purposes of this ordinance.
   1.   Fixture. The assembly that holds the lamp (bulb) in a lighting system.
Fixture shall include the elements designed to give light output control, such
as a reflector (mirror) or refractor (lens), the ballast, housing, and the
attachment parts.
   2.   Flood Light.  A luminaire or bulb which projects light in a specific
direction in a wide beam one hundred (100) degrees or more.
   3.   Full-cutoff or fco.  A light fixture which cuts off all upward
transmission of light.
   4.   Fully-shielded. A fixture with housing or attachment thereto which
prevents a line of sight to the bulb when viewed from another property and
which prevents a line of sight to any part of the light source at or above a
horizontal plane running through the lowest portion of the fixture.
   5.   Glare. The reflection of harsh, bright light; and the physical effect
resulting from high luminances or insufficiently shielded light sources in the
field of view.
   6.   Horizontal/Vertical Footcandles.  The amount of light striking a
horizontal or vertical plane.
   7.   IESNA. The Illuminating Engineering Society of North America.
   8.   Light Source.  The bulb and lens, diffuser, or reflective enclosure.
   9.   Light Trespass.  Light projected onto a property from a fixture not
located on that property.
   10.   Lumens. The measure of brightness of the illumination exiting a bulb.
   11.   Spotlight.  A luminaire or bulb which projects light in a specific
direction in a narrow beam, forty-five (45) degrees or less.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-148.4 Regulations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install, erect
or maintain any floodlight, searchlight, security light, or other form or type
of light source within the municipal corporate limits of the Town of Dyer in
such a manner that the light rays from such floodlight, searchlight, security
light or other form or type of light source fail to conform with the terms and
conditions of this ordinance. Further, it shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to install, erect, or maintain any floodlight, searchlight,
security light or other form or type of light source within the municipal
corporate limits of the Town of Dyer in such a manner that the light therefrom
may distract the attention of any motor vehicle driver from the operation of a
motor vehicle in a safe and prudent manner.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-148.5 Light Trespass.
   The maximum illumination from any artificial lighting source other than
street lights, at any distance up to, and including, five (5) feet inside an
adjoining residential parcel or public right-of-way, shall not exceed 0.05
horizontal footcandles and 0.05 vertical footcandles. The maximum illumination
from any artificial lighting source other than street lights, at any distance
up to, and including, five (5) feet inside an adjoining commercial or
industrial parcel or on a public roadway, shall not exceed 0.1 horizontal
footcandles or 0.1 vertical footcandles.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-148.6 General Lighting Design Requirements.
   a.   The bulbs in outdoor light fixtures emitting from between six hundred
(600) to twelve hundred (1,200) lumens shall be frosted glass or shall be
covered by frosted glass or another similar translucent cover. An outdoor
fixture emitting more than twelve hundred (1,200) lumens shall be a full cutoff
fixture.
   b.   A spotlight or floodlight emitting less than eighteen hundred (1,800)
lumens need not be full cutoff or covered by a translucent cover if:
      (1)   Its center beam is aimed at a point not beyond any property lines
upon which the light is situated,
      (2)   If it is pointed at no higher than forty five degree below
horizontal,
      (3)   Is motion detector activated, and
      (4)   The light cycles off after five (5) minutes or less.
   c.   The use of search lights, laser lighting, or lights that pulse, flash,
rotate or simulate motion for advertising or promotions is prohibited. This
shall not apply to such lights that are used in approved and permitted signage.
Emergency lighting and traffic control lighting is exempt from this
prohibition. Tower lighting shall not be permitted unless required by the
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Lighting required by the FAA shall be of
the lowest allowed intensity permitted and shall be red unless specifically
forbidden under FAA requirements.
   d.   At the close of business, all outdoor lighting shall be reduced by
shutting off half of the lighting sources. Lighting from the top downward as
opposed to upward lighting, shall be encouraged.
   e.   Buildings and Other Vertical Structures.
      1.   Lighting fixtures designed to illuminate a building or vertical
surface shall be located, aimed and shielded so that light is directed only
onto said surface. Lighting fixtures shall not be directed toward adjacent
streets or roads.
      2.   Outside lighting fixtures shall be directed below the horizontal
rather than above the horizontal unless there is a method employed which
prevents light from such a fixture from projecting beyond the highest point of
any building on the property.
   f.   Landscaping.
      1.   When landscaping is to be illuminated, the Plan Commission, or its
designee, shall first be presented with a landscape lighting plan for review.
Approval will be considered for any landscape lighting plan that:
         (1)   Presents the purpose and objective of the lighting,
         (2)   Shows the location of all lighting fixtures,
         (3)   Shows which items of landscaping each fixture is to illuminate,
and
         (4)   Demonstrates that the installation of the fixtures will not
generate excessive light levels, cause excessive glare, or direct light beyond
the landscaping into the night sky.
   g.   Parking Lot Lighting. Parking lot lighting shall be designed to provide
the minimum lighting necessary to ensure adequate vision and comfort in parking
areas, and to not cause excessive glare or direct illumination onto adjacent
properties or streets. In addition:
      1.   All lighting fixtures serving parking lots shall be full cut-off
fixtures.
      2.   Mounting heights of lighting fixtures shall not exceed thirty (30)
feet as measured from the grade at the base of th pole to the glass pane of the
full cutoff lighting fixture.
      3.   The minimum illumination level during business hours shall be no
less than 0.4 footcandles. The ratio of maximum to minimum illumination shall
not exceed 15:1.
   h.   Lighting of Exterior Display/Sales Areas. Lighting levels on exterior
display/sales areas shall be adequate to facilitate the activities taking place
in such locations. Lighting of such areas shall not be used to attract
attention to the business. Only signs permitted by applicable provisions of the
Town Code are to be used for that purpose. An applicant shall designate areas
to be considered display/sales areas and areas to be used as parking or passive
vehicle storage areas, which designations shall be approved by the Plan
Commission, or its designee. In addition:
      1.   Areas designated as parking or passive vehicle storage areas shall
be illuminated in accordance with the requirements for parking areas detailed
in subsection g. of this section.
      2.   Areas designated as exterior display/sales areas shall be
illuminated so that the average horizontal illuminance at grade level is no
more than 5.0 footcandles. The average horizontal illuminance at grade level
relative to this section shall be computed for only that area designated as
exterior display/sales area.
      3.   Light fixtures shall be full cut-off fixtures and be located,
mounted, aimed, and shielded so that direct light is not cast onto adjacent
streets or properties.
      4.   Fixtures shall be mounted no more than thirty (30) feet above grade.
   i.   Lighting of Walkways/Bikeways and Parks. Where special lighting is to
be provided for walkways, bikeways, or parks, the following requirements shall
apply:
      1.   The walkway, pathway, or ground area shall be illuminated to a level
of no less than 0.4 and not greater than an average of 4 footcandles across the
site.
      2.   Lighting fixtures shall be designed to direct light downward, and
light sources shall have an initial output of no more than one thousand (1,000)
lumens.
   j.   Lighting of Gasoline Station/Convenience Store Aprons and Canopies.
Lighting levels on gasoline station/convenience store aprons and under canopies
shall be adequate to facilitate the activities taking place in such locations.
Lighting of such areas shall not be used to attract attention to the business.
Only signs permitted by applicable provisions of the Town Code are to be used
for that purpose.
      1.   Areas on the apron away from the gasoline pump islands used for
parking or vehicle storage shall be illuminated in accordance with the
requirements for parking areas set forth in subsection g. of this section. If
no gasoline pumps are provided, the entire apron shall be treated as a parking
area for purposes of this ordinance and regulations.
      2.   Areas around the pump islands and under canopies shall be
illuminated so that the average illumination level of not greater than 22.0
footcandles.
      3.   Light fixtures mounted on canopies shall be recessed so that the
lens cover is recessed or flush with the bottom surface of the canopy and/ or
shielded by the fixture or the edge of the canopy so that light is restrained
to no more than eighty-five degrees (85º) beyond the vertical plane.
      4.   Lights shall not be mounted on the top or sides of the canopy, and
the sides of the canopy shall not be illuminated.
      5.   Existing gasoline stations will be required to conform to the
provisions of this ordinance and these regulations when any remodeling or
revamping of the station occurs.
   k.   Lighting of Outdoor Facilities. It is recognized that outdoor nighttime
facilities and activities (concerts, athletic contests, and the like) have
unique lighting requirements and that illumination levels vary, depending on
the nature of the activity. The regulations of this ordinance, are intended to
permit adequate lighting for such events, while minimizing sky glow, reducing
energy consumption and reducing glare and unwanted illumination of surrounding
streets and properties. A lighting design plan shall address the lighting
requirements of the various adjacent areas and affected properties, and how the
requirements of this ordinance for the specific outdoor nighttime facility and/
or activity will be met.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-148.7 Site Plans. 
   All outdoor lighting installations must receive approval of the Plan
Commission, or its designee. An applicant shall submit to the Town sufficient
information, in the form of an overall exterior lighting plan, to enable the
Town to determine that the applicable regulations of this ordinance, will be
satisfied. The lighting plan shall include at least the following items:
   a.   A site plan, drawn to a scale of one (1) inch equaling no more than
twenty (20) feet, showing buildings, landscaping, parking areas, and all
proposed exterior lighting fixtures with readings space ten (10) feet apart and
showing readings at a point five (5) feet outside of all property lines;
   b.   Specifications for all proposed lighting fixtures including, but not
limited to, photometric data, designation as full cut-off fixtures, and other
descriptive information on the fixtures;
   c.   Proposed mounting height of all exterior lighting fixtures;
   d.   Analysis and illuminance level diagrams showing that the proposed
installation conforms to the lighting level standards in this ordinance; and
   e.   Drawing of all relevant building elevations showing the fixtures, the
portions of the walls to be illuminated, the illuminance levels of the walls,
and the aiming points for any remote light fixtures.
   Lighting installations shall include timers, dimmers, or sensors to reduce
overall energy consumption and eliminate unneeded lighting.
   When an outdoor lighting installation is being modified, extended, expanded,
or added to, that outdoor lighting installation shall be subject to the
requirements of this ordinance and its regulations. Expansions, additions, or
replacements to outdoor lighting installations shall be designed to avoid harsh
contrasts in color and/or lighting levels. Electrical service to outdoor
lighting fixtures shall be underground unless the fixtures are mounted directly
on utility poles.
   Proposed lighting installations that are not covered by the specific
requirements and provisions of this ordinance will be approved only if the Plan
Commission, or its designee, determines that said installations are designed to
minimize glare, do not direct light beyond the boundaries of the area being
illuminated or onto adjacent properties or streets, and do not result in
excessive lighting levels. In general, IESNA standards shall be used to
determine the appropriate lighting design.
   For the purpose of these regulations and this ordinance, the mounting height
of a lighting fixture shall be defined as the vertical distance from the grade
elevation of the surface being illuminated to the bottom of the lighting
fixture.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-148.8 Exemptions.
   The temporary use of lighting for public festivals, celebrations, and the
observance of holidays are exempt from the provisions of this ordinance, except
where the use creates a hazard or nuisance from excessive glare. However,
consideration to light trespass requirements shall be demonstrated prior to
commencing the use of the temporary lighting. Commercial activities exempt
under the provisions of the ordinance shall only be able to use this exemption
for one (1) occurrence per year.
   All other lighting existing or installed prior to the date of the adoption
of this ordinance which does not conform to the exterior lighting regulations
set forth and established herein shall be exempt with the following conditions
applying:
      1.   Lighting determined by the Town to create public hazard may be
ordered to be removed or altered at any time;
      2.   At the close of business all lighting shall be reduced to a level
not greater than those described in the Section
10-148.6g., Parking Lot Lighting.
      3.   Upon installation of any new luminaire, this ordinance shall apply
to that luminaire.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-148.9 Street Lighting.
   Street lighting owned, operated, maintained or leased by the Town of Dyer
shall be exempt from the provisions of this ordinance, in the interest of
public safety. However, it is understood and acknowledged that the Town will
make every effort to comply with the following exterior lighting standards:
      1.   All new, repaired or replaced fixtures shall be full cut off
fixtures and the IESNA guidelines shall govern. However, the design for a
particular area may suggest the use of street light fixtures of a particular
period or architectural style as an alternative if the following items are
observed:
         (a)   The maximum initial lumens generated by each fixture may not
exceed two thousand (2,000) lumens.
         (b)   The mounting height of the alternative fixture may not exceed
fifteen (15) feet.
         (c)   Alternative lighting shall be approved in a public hearing
conducted by the Board of Zoning Appeals as part of a petition for subdivision
approval as a waiver from the requirements of the Book of Standards which are
an appendix to the Subdivision Control Ordinance and which is held in
accordance with the provisions of I.C., 5-3-1, et. seq. Public comment
regarding the alternative lighting standard will be considered at that time.
         (d)   Street lights shall be located in the public right-of-way or on
easement acquired for such a purpose.
         (e)   If the street has a sidewalk along one (1) side, the street
lights will generally be limited to the sidewalk side of the street, unless the
circumstances or safety considerations require otherwise.
   The Dyer Town Council will adopt a replacement program to annually begin to
replace street lighting fixtures (Cobra heads) that are not of the full cut-off
variety with full cut-off fixtures. The Town Council shall target annually a
budgetary figure, as funds are available, to replace fixtures during the normal
course of maintenance.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-148.10 Injunction.
   Any person or property owner who violates any provision of this Exterior
Lighting Regulations Ordinance, shall be subject to penalty and fine of not
less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and not more than two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each offense, such fine to inure to the Town.
Each day of the existence of any violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
Further, the Town Attorney is authorized to commence and prosecute a proceeding
for injunctive relief in a court of competent jurisdiction in Lake County,
Indiana, and the Town shall be entitled to recover its attorney fees and costs.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-148.11 Immunity from Prosecution.
    The Town of Dyer, and its designees, employees, agents, representatives,
attorneys, elected and appointed officials, Metropolitan Police Department and
Volunteer Fire Department, and all other Town departments and agencies, charged
with enforcement of state and local laws and code shall be immune from
prosecution, civil or criminal, for reasonable, good faith enforcement of this
ordinance while acting within the scope of authority conferred by the
ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-149 through Section 10-154 Reserved for future use.
Division II. Special Use Districts.
Sec. 10-155 Definition of Special Use District (SUD).
   A zoning district in which the development of lots shall be according to a
plan, and in which development and/or improvements may not correspond in lot
size, bulk, type of structure, density, lot coverage or required open space to
the regulations otherwise required by the building, subdivision and zoning
ordinances.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-156 Applicability of Special Use District Regulations.
   The SUD classification shall be used only in areas in which special or
unusual development problems or needs for compatibility require that the Plan
Commission approve a development plan for consistency with general development
standards.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-157 Purpose for Special Use District Regulations.
   The SUD authorization serves to encourage unified development of a
geographic area. Deviation from specific site development standards is both
allowable and desirable as long as the general purposes for the standards are
achieved. The development should promote a harmonious variety or grouping of
uses and may utilize the economy of shared services and facilities. It is
further the purpose of authorized SUDs to utilize:
   a.   Advances in technology and design.
   b.   A comprehensive development equal to or better than resulting from
traditional lot-by-lot land use development, in which the design of the overall
area permits increased freedom in the placement and uses of buildings and the
location of open spaces, circulation facilities, off-street parking areas and
other facilities.
   c.   The potential of sites characterized by special features including but
not limited to geography, topography, size, shape, historic or architectural
significance, and location.
   d.   Compliance with state and federal regulations.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-158 Outline Development Plan.
   For any geographic area designated by the SUD classification on the Official
Zoning Map, which is also located within a designated Neighborhood Development
Program Area, the Dyer Redevelopment Commission shall prepare an outline
development plan. This plan shall include both maps and a written statement as
described in this section. The information shall include enough of the area
surrounding the SUD to demonstrate the relationship of the SUD with adjoining
uses, both existing and allowable.
   a.   The maps which are part of the outline plan may be in general schematic
form and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Existing topography.
      2.   Existing and proposed land uses and approximate location of
structures.
      3.   Character and density of structures.
      4.   Approximate location of streets and public ways.
      5.   Public uses.
      6.   Common open spaces and a description of the proposed use.
      7.   Access for emergency services.
   b.   The written statement which is part of the outline development plan
shall contain the following information:
      1.   A text describing the character of the proposed land use and
development, and the manner in which it implements the goals and objectives of
the Neighborhood Development Program Area.
      2.   A description of the public improvements, if any, proposed for
construction by the Town as a part of or enhancement to the development.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-159 Application Process: Preliminary Development Plan.
   a.   At the time a property owner desires to apply for approval to modify an
existing structure or land use, or to begin new construction within any
designated Special Use District, the petitioner shall prepare a preliminary
development plan for submission to the Plan Commission. Existing structures
shall not be subject to the following review process if the modification to the
structure involves replacing like materials with like materials, i.e. replacing
vinyl siding with new vinyl siding, or asphalt shingles with new asphalt
shingles. Maintenance of an existing structure such as painting, window
replacement, etc., shall not be subject to the following procedure.
      1.   Petitioner shall appear before the Plan Commission to describe and
present the preliminary concepts, uses and intent of the proposed plan. The
Plan Commission shall submit the plan to the Site Plan Review Committee for
review and recommendation, pursuant to the requirements outlined in Section
10-130(d)(9).
   b.   All remedies available to the Plan Commission shall be the same as
those contained in Section
10-102 of the Subdivision Control Ordinance. The review fee shall be that as
set forth in Section
10-119 for SUD Development Plan Review.
   c.   Should engineering review be required, fees for such review shall be
the same as those required in Section
10-119.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-160 Application Process: Final Development Plan.
   a.   Within six (6) months of the Plan Commission's approval of the
preliminary development plan, the applicant shall file with the Plan Commission
a final development plan containing in final form the information required in
the preliminary plan. The Plan Commission, however, may extend for an
additional six (6) months the time period for the filing of the final
development plan, when adequate need is shown. The final development plan may
be submitted with the preliminary development plan if the Plan Commission deems
it reasonable to allow such submittal. (See Section
10-159b.)
   b.   If the final development plan deviates in a material way from the
preliminary development plan, the applicant shall be required to submit a
revised preliminary development plan in the same manner as the original
application.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-161 Special Use District - West U.S. 30 Corridor
Sec. 10-161.1 Application.
   This section applies only to the area zoned Special Use District (SUD) -
West U.S. 30 Corridor, as established by Ordinance Nos. 95-6 and 96-19 and as
amended by Ordinance No. 2003-26.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-161.2 Building Types and Uses.
   a.   Permitted Uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the SUD - West
U.S. 30 Corridor classification:
      1.   Permitted Open Space Uses. Open space areas may be used solely for
parks, village greens, squares and natural areas. No enclosed structures shall
be built in an open space area until and unless approval is given by the Dyer
Plan Commission, at which time the owners of open space areas may elect to
erect such structures so long as the structure is intended to further promote
the use of the open space areas consistent with the intent of this section.
Other uses may be permitted which, upon application to the Dyer Plan
Commission, are deemed to be in accordance with the intent of the SUD - West
U.S. 30 Corridor.
      2.   Permitted Civic Uses. Civic uses areas are areas or structures which
are owned and or operated by a local, state or federal government entity and
may be used for one (1) or more of the following:
         (a)   Community center or local government building.
         (b)   Library.
         (c)   Post office.
         (d)   Municipal services.
         (e)   Other uses which, upon application to the Dyer Plan Commission,
are deemed to be in accordance with the intent of the SUD - West U.S. 30
Corridor.
      3.   Permitted Type I Uses. [Neighborhood District (ND] Type I areas may
be used for one (1) or more of the following:
         (a)   Residential dwelling units, including single family and two
family dwelling units and having a minimum six hundred (600) square foot per
unit.
         (b)   Retail sales and services, including card and stationary, craft,
frames, music, record, party supply, boutique, jewelry and flower.
         (c)   Offices.
         (d)   Specialty food service seating less than one hundred (100)
patrons.
         (e)   Artist studios.
         (f)   Lodging, of more than six (6) guest rooms or twelve (12) guests
and limited to two (2) stories in height including ground floor.
         (g)   Medical clinics, and health care facilities.
         (h)   Automobile parking lots.
         (i)   Public transit facilities.
         (j)   Any use permitted in civic use and open space use.
         (k)   Other uses which, upon application to the Dyer Plan Commission,
are determined to be in accordance with the intent of the SUD - West U.S. 30
Corridor.
      4.   Permitted Type II Uses. [Central Business District (CBD)] Type II
Areas may be used for one (1) or more of the following:
         (a)   Residential dwelling units, including single family and two
family dwelling units and having a minimum six hundred (600) square foot per
unit, to other than street level.
         (b)   Retail sales and services, including card and stationary, craft,
frames, music, record, party supply, boutique, jewelry, flower and video stores
which must comply with parking requirements.
         (c)   Offices.
         (d)   Restaurants, specialty food service and private food service.
         (e)   Day-care center.
         (f)   Artist studios.
         (g)   Lodging.
         (h)   Medical clinics, and health care facilities.
         (i)   Public transit facilities.
         (j)   Laundry or dry cleaning.
         (k)   Automobile parking lots.
         (l)   Any use permitted in civic use and open space use.
         (m)   Other uses not listed herein which, upon application to the Dyer
Plan Commission, are determined to be in accordance with the intent of the SUD
- West U.S. 30 Corridor.
         (n)   Furniture repair, refinishing and stripping.
   b.   Special Exceptions. The following uses may be permitted by Special
Exception in the SUD - West U.S. Corridor classification. The following uses
may be permitted in Type II only as Special Exceptions, in the SUD - West U.S.
Corridor classification:
      (1)   Tavern/pub.
      (2)   Bank or other financial institution.
      (3)   Social club and health club.
      (4)   Grocery store.
      (5)   Churches.
      (6)   Centers for the advancement and presentation of historical and
cultural materials and events.
      (7)   Technology development or services.
      (8)   Schools which comply with parking requirements on site.
      (9)   Workshops.
      (10)   Other uses similar in all significant respects to a permitted use.
      (11)   Drive-through facilities.
   c.   Prohibited Uses. The following uses shall not be permitted in the SUD -
West U.S. 30 Corridor classification:
      (1)   Industrial uses.
      (2)   (Reserved).
      (3)   The sale of explosives in any amount.
      (4)   Automobile service station.
      (5)   The sale or dispensing of fuels used for vehicular use.
      (6)   Tattoo and sexually oriented businesses.
      (7)   Motorized vehicle repair services, other than as an auxiliary use.
      (8)   Convention centers.
      (9)   Banquet facilities.
      (10)   Automotive or vehicular sales or related uses.
      (11)   Residential, other than as specified above.
      (12)   Chemical manufacturing, storage or distribution, as a primary use.
      (13)   Any commercial use which is primarily directed to patrons who are
encouraged by the site layout, or buildings, to remain in their automobile
while receiving goods or services.
      (14)   Enameling, plating or painting except artist studios as a primary
use.
      (15)   Foundries, carting, express, moving or hauling terminal or yard.
      (16)   Prisons, detention centers, or "half-way houses" associated with
prisons or penitentiaries.
      (17)   The manufacture, treatment or disposal of hazardous waste
materials.
      (18)   The manufacture, treatment or disposal of radioactive waste.
      (19)   Agricultural uses, other than home gardens.
      (20)   Scrap yards.
      (21)   Mobile homes.
      (22)   Commercial sand, gravel or other mineral extraction.
      (23)   Outdoor commercial, except by vendor permit and restricted to the
sale of produce, food or prepared food.
      (24)   Outdoor storage.
      (25)   Kennels.
      (26)   Any use which produces any of the adverse impacts defined as
prohibited under the definition of Light Industry.
      (27)   Gasoline stations.
      (28)   The sale of the following:
         A.   Consumer fireworks and explosive compositions except for:
            1.   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers. However, total pyrotechnic
composition may not exceed one hundred (100) grams per item. Devices containing
chlorate or perchlorate salts may not exceed five (5) grams in total
composition per item;
            2.   Cylindrical fountains;
            3.   Cone fountains;
            4.   Illuminating torches;
            5.   Wheels;
            6.   Ground spinners;
            7.   Flitter sparklers;
            8.   Snakes or glow worms;
            9.   Smoke devices;
            10.   Trick noisemakers, which include:
               a.   Party poppers;
               b.   Booby traps;
               c.   Snappers;
               d.   Trick matches;
               e.   Cigarette loads
               f.   Auto burglar alarms;
         B.   Firecrackers or salutes;
         C.   Fireworks except for items listed in A(1) through A(10) above and
model rockets, toy cap pistols, emergency signal flares, matches, fixed
ammunition for firearms, ammunition components intended for use in firearms,
muzzle loading cannons or small arms, shells, cartridges, and primers for use
in firearms, muzzle loading cannons or small arms;
         D.   M-80's, cherry bombs, silver salutes and any device banned by the
Federal Government;
         E.   Helicopters or aerial spinners;
         F.   Indoor pyrotechnics, special effects material;
         G.   Mines or shells;
         H.   Missile type rockets;
         I.   Roman candles;
         J.   Sky rockets.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2009-18, 11-18-09; Am. Ord. No. 2014-
01, 1-9-14)
Sec. 10-161.3 Area Regulations.
   a.   Minimum Lot Area. The minimum area for any use shall be two thousand
five hundred (2,500) square feet.
   b.   Maximum Building Size. No building or structure shall exceed five
thousand (5,000) gross square feet on a single story.
   c.   Building Height.  Building height shall be not less than fourteen (14)
feet and not more than forty (40) feet.
   d.   Building Lines.
      1.   Front Yards. For building Types I and II, the front building line
shall be less than twenty (20) feet from the curb edge of a public street or
between ten (10) and fifteen (15) feet from the property line along Hwy. 30 on
which the lot fronts. The front building line can vary only from the front
building line of adjacent lots by no greater than five (5) feet with approval
of the BZA. The front building line is a maximum setback line rather than a
minimum setback line. No fence may be located forward of the actual building
face.
      2.   Side Yards. There are no interior side yard setback regulations. In
other words, a building may be built out to the limits of the lot on which it
is built, however, in the case of a corner lot, the side yard setback on the
corner side shall be the same as that for a front yard setback.
      3.   Rear Yards. The rear building line shall be thirty-five (35) feet or
more from the rear property line when no ingress/egress service road abuts the
rear property line and five (5) feet or more when an ingress/egress service
road abuts the rear property line.
      4.   Exceptions. Side yard entrances and stairs are allowed if entrance
or stair and landings are an integral part of the building and constructed of
like materials and stair and landings are fully enclosed and secured. At least
one (1) entrance must face and abut the front yard in Type II buildings.
   e.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks must be installed and must be a minimum of five
(5) feet wide or as otherwise specified by the Town's Design Book of Standards.
   f.   Landscaping.
      1.   Front yards.
         (a)   For building Type I, the front yard of each lot shall be
landscaped in such a manner as to provide significant living greenery other
than grass, including such items as trees, shrubs or flowers. No parking shall
be permitted in the front yard except when located on a passenger vehicle
ingress/egress drive.
         (b)   For building Type II, the front yard of each lot shall be
landscaped in such a manner as to provide significant living greenery other
than grass, including such items as trees, shrubs, bushes or flowers except
where the front building wall abuts a sidewalk which abuts a street. No parking
shall be permitted in the front yard at any time.
      2.   Rear Yards.  A landscaped buffer, including significant living
greenery, of not less than ten (10) feet shall be maintained between the rear
property line and the remainder of the rear lot except when abutting an
ingress/egress service road. No parking shall be permitted in this buffer area
except when abutting an ingress/egress service road.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-161.4 Building Standards.
   The following building standards shall apply to each use type area within
SUD - West U.S. 30 Corridor:
   a.   Public. The construction of open colonnades on open space areas which
adjoin Type I and II buildings is permitted.
   b.   Sidewalk Sizes and Requirements.  All sidewalk systems shall be
handicapped accessible. Sidewalks shall generally be parallel with the streets
they adjoin and may be either within the street right-of-way or within an
individual lot. The sidewalk's use and maintenance shall be ensured by
permanent easement.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-161.5 Parking.
   a.   General Parking Options:
      1.   Land area(s) for parking shall be reserved in accordance with the
following minimum parking requirements within the SUD - West U.S. 30 Corridor.
The Dyer Plan Commission, in its discretion, may not require the immediate
construction of all of a parking area. The following requirements do not
necessarily apply if a Shared Parking option is elected. Parking spaces shall
be constructed in accordance with Section
10-132.
         (a)   Civic. Minimum one (1) parking space per one thousand (1,000)
square feet of gross building square footage.
         (b)   Residential.
            (1)   Three-fourths (¾) parking spaces per sleeping room for single
family (minimum one (1) space required) all fractions greater than one-half (½)
equal one (1) space.
            (2)   One (1) parking space per sleeping room for multi family and
lodging.
         (c)   Restaurants, specialty and private food service, social and
health clubs. Minimum one (1) space per two hundred and fifty (250) square feet
of seating and/or counter area.
         (d)   All other uses. Minimum one (1) parking space per one thousand
(1,000) square feet of gross floor area, all fractions greater than one-half
(½) equal one (1) space.
      2.   On street Parking.  Generally, continuous head-in or parallel
parking shall be provided along streets in Type II. Parallel parking is
permitted along all other streets except Hwy. 30 and where a Town ordinance
specifies otherwise.
      3.   Parking Space Allocation. For other than shared parking, parking
spaces may be considered allocated to a particular lot, or use, if those spaces
are entirely on that lot or the use of the spaces has been assured by
assignment through easement or other legal guaranty. Street side parking may be
allocated to a particular lot when a particular streetside space abuts a
particular lot. Where streetside spaces abut more than one (1) lot, a
particular parking space may be allocated to a particular lot only if more than
sixty-six percent (66%) of the space abuts that lot or the space use has been
assured by assignment.
      4.   Location and Screening of Parking Lots. Parking lots and areas shall
be located at the side or rear of buildings and are prohibited from being
located in front yards and on either corner of a corner lot. All parking lots
or areas shall be screened to help minimize their view from the street.
         (a)   Parking lots or parking structures independent of a primary use,
shall not be located at street intersections.
         (b)   Parking lots shall be screened from the sidewalk by walls,
fences or solid landscaping six (6) feet in height. All screening must be
approved by the Plan Commission. Where parking lots associated with a primary
use are located at street intersections the screening requirement shall comply
with Section
10-130(d)(1) in terms of its height.
         (c)   Adjacent parking lots shall have vehicular and pedestrian
connections.
      5.   Parking Garage Requirements. Parking garages or structures built for
the purpose of storing four (4) or more vehicles shall be buffered at street
level by a commercial use to mitigate potentially detrimental affects to street
quality that such structures might otherwise cause. Parking structures at
sidewalks shall be fronted by Type II building uses. Automobile entry/exit
shall not exceed thirty (30) feet in width.
      6.   Ingress/Egress Service Roads. No parking is permitted on ingress/
egress service roads unless the ingress/egress service road is constructed to
additional width and approved by the Plan Commission for such use.
      7.   Garages or carports are allowed only in Type I and shall be located
a minimum of twenty (20) feet behind the street facade of the building.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-161.6 Utilities, Accessory Structures and Garbage.
   Utilities, equipment, accessory structures and the storage of garbage shall
not be located in the front yard and shall not be visible from adjacent
roadways for all building types.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-161.7 Non-Conforming Uses.
   a.   Existing non-conforming structures located within the SUD - West U.S.
30 Corridor classification may be maintained as they existed at the time of
passage of this ordinance. Non-conforming uses may be maintained as they
existed at the time of passage of this ordinance. A non-conforming use may be
extended throughout the structure in which it existed at the time of passage of
this ordinance. A non-conforming use may not be extended to areas of the
structure which were not a part of the structure at the time of passage of this
ordinance. It is the intent of this ordinance to encourage the use of property
within the SUD - West U.S. 30 Corridor in a manner which conforms to and
enhances the outline development plan for the SUD - West U.S. 30 Corridor.
   b.   When any non-conforming use of a structure is abandoned for a period in
excess of six (6) months, the structure shall not thereafter be used except in
conformance with the regulations of the SUD - West U.S. 30 Corridor.
   c.   Additions to Type I, Residential use structures in place at the time of
passage of this ordinance do not need to comply with front and side yard
requirements of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-161.8 Amendment to Zoning Map.
   The official zoning map, incorporated by reference into the Zoning
Ordinance, shall be amended by designating the area described by the legal
description and map attached hereto as a Special Use District - West U.S. 30
Corridor and the same shall be incorporated by reference into the Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-162 Special Use District - Calumet Avenue Corridor.
Sec. 10-162.1 Application.
   This section only applies to the area zoned Special Use District - Calumet
Avenue Corridor, as defined and outlined by the site map found in Appendix A
and the legal description found in Appendix B of Ordinance No. 2006-25, the
contents of which shall be incorporated by reference as part of this section.
This section is amended by the addition of certain definitions which are set
forth in Appendix B to Ordinance No. 2009-18, the contents of which shall be
incorporated by reference as a part of this section.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2009-18, 11-18-09)
Sec. 10-162.2 Developmental Standards.
   The developmental standards for this District, including but not limited to,
regulations as to the development, maintenance and use of property within the
District, shall be found in the "Calumet Avenue Corridor Plan" ("Developmental
Plan"), a document prepared by IN Architects and Planners, Inc., containing
eighty-four (84) pages of text, including the cover, dated October 25, 2006,
which is contained as Appendix C of Ordinance No. 2006-25, the contents of
which shall be incorporated by reference as part of this section. This section
is amended by the addition of paragraph (25) which is set forth in Appendix C
to Ordinance No. 2009-18, the contents of which shall be incorporated by
reference as a part of this section.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07; Am. Ord. No. 2009-18, 11-18-09)
Sec. 10-162.3 Conflict.
   If the developmental standards for the District, as outlined and contained
in the Developmental Plan, are found to be in conflict with the developmental
standards found in any other section of the Zoning Ordinance of the Town, the
standards found in the Developmental Plan shall prevail.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-162.4 Application Process/Site Plan Review.
   The application and site plan review process shall be governed by Sections
10-159 and
10-130(d)(9) of the Zoning Ordinance of the Town, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-162.5 Amendment of Zoning Map.
   The official zoning map, incorporated by reference into the Zoning
Ordinance, shall be amended by designating the area described by the map
(Appendix A) and legal description (Appendix B) attached to Ordinance No. 2006-
25 as a Special Use District - Calumet Avenue Corridor and the same shall be
incorporated by reference into the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-162.6 Public Hearing on Petition; Recommendation.
   a.   The Plan Commission shall, after notice as required by the Plan
Commission Rules, conduct a public hearing on any petition for a use in the
corridor which is not a stated permitted use;
   b.   The Plan Commission shall, after the public hearing, make a
recommendation on the petition to the Town Council. That recommendation shall
be a favorable recommendation, unfavorable recommendation, or no
recommendation;
   c.   The decision of the Plan Commission shall be certified to the Town
Council which shall vote on the petition within ninety (90) days after
certification to the Town Council. If the Town Council does not vote to deny
the petition within ninety (90) days, the petition is considered approved;
(Ord. No. 2018-02, 5-24-18)
Sec. 10-163 Building Standards.
   The following building standards shall apply to each use type area within a
SUD:
      1.   Public. The construction of open colonnades on open space areas
which adjoin Type I and II buildings is permitted.
      2.   Sidewalk Sizes and Requirements. All sidewalk systems shall be
handicapped accessible. Sidewalks shall generally be parallel with the streets
they adjoin and may be either within the street right-of-way or within an
individual lot. The sidewalk's use and maintenance shall be ensured by
permanent easement.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-164 Parking.
   a.   General Parking Options:
      1.   Land area(s) for parking shall be reserved in accordance with the
following minimum parking requirements within a SUD. The Dyer Plan Commission,
in its discretion, may not require the immediate construction of all of a
parking area. The following requirements do not necessarily apply if a Shared
Parking option is elected. Parking spaces shall be constructed in accordance
with Section
10-132.
         (a)   Civic. Minimum one (1) parking space per one thousand (1,000)
square feet of gross building square footage,
         (b)   Residential.
            (1)   Three fourths (¾) parking spaces per sleeping room for single
family (minimum one (1) space required) all fractions greater than one half (½)
equal one (1) space.
            (2)   One (1) parking space per sleeping room for multi family and
lodging.
         (c)   Restaurants, specialty and private food service, social and
health clubs. Minimum one (1) space per two hundred and fifty (250) square feet
of seating and/or counter area.
         (d)   All other uses. Minimum one (1) parking space per one thousand
(1,000) square feet of gross floor area, all fractions greater than one half
(½) equal one (1) space.
      2.   On street Parking.  Generally, continuous head-in or parallel
parking shall be provided along streets in Type II. Parallel parking is
permitted along all other streets except Hwy. 30 and where a town ordinance
specifies otherwise.
      3.   Parking Space Allocation. For other than shared parking, parking
spaces may be considered allocated to a particular lot, or use, if those spaces
are entirely on that lot or the use of the spaces has been assured by
assignment through easement or other legal guaranty. Street side parking may be
allocated to a particular lot when a particular streetside space abuts a
particular lot. Where streetside spaces abut more than one (1) lot, a
particular parking space may be allocated to a particular lot only if more than
sixty six percent (66%) of the space abuts that lot or the space use has been
assured by assignment.
      4.   Location and Screening of Parking Lots.  Parking lots and areas
shall be located at the side or rear of buildings and are prohibited from being
located in front yards and on either corner of a corner lot. All parking lots
or areas shall be screened to help minimize their view from the street.
         (a)   Parking lots or parking structures independent of a primary use,
shall not be located at street intersections.
         (b)   Parking lots shall be screened from the sidewalk by walls,
fences or solid landscaping six (6) feet in height. All screening must be
approved by the Plan Commission. Where parking lots associated with a primary
use are located at street intersections the screening requirement shall comply
with Section
10-130d.1. in terms of its height.
         (c)   Adjacent parking lots shall have vehicular and pedestrian
connections.
      5.   Parking Garage Requirements. Parking garages or structures built for
the purpose of storing four (4) or more vehicles shall be buffered at street
level by a commercial use to mitigate potentially detrimental affects to street
quality that such structures might otherwise cause. Parking structures at
sidewalks shall be fronted by Type II building uses. Automobile entry/exit
shall not exceed thirty (30) feet in width.
      6.   Ingress/Egress Service Roads. No parking is permitted on ingress/
egress service roads unless the ingress/egress service road is constructed to
additional width and approved by the Plan Commission for such use.
      7.   Garages or carports are allowed only in Type I and shall be located
a minimum of twenty (20) feet behind the street facade of the building.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-165 Utilities, Accessory Structures and Garbage.
   Utilities, equipment, accessory structures and the storage of garbage shall
not be located in the front yard and shall not be visible from adjacent
roadways for all building types.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-166 Non-Conforming Uses.
   a.   Existing non-conforming structures located within the SUD
classification may be maintained as they existed at the time of passage of this
ordinance. Non-conforming uses may be maintained as they existed at the time of
passage of this ordinance. A non-conforming use may be extended throughout the
structure in which it existed at the time of passage of this ordinance. A non-
conforming use may not be extended to areas of the structure which were not a
part of the structure at the time of passage of this ordinance. It is the
intent of this ordinance to encourage the use of property within the SUD in a
manner which conforms to and enhances the outline development plan for the SUD.
   b.   When any non-conforming use of a structure is abandoned for a period in
excess of six (6) months, the structure shall not thereafter be used except in
conformance with the regulations of the SUD.
   c.   Additions to Type I, Residential use structures in place at the time of
passage of this ordinance do not need to comply with front and side yard
requirements of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-167 Amendment to Zoning Map.
   The official zoning map, incorporated by reference into the Zoning
Ordinance, shall be amended by designating the area described by the legal
description and map attached hereto as a Special Use District and the same
shall be incorporated by reference into the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-167.1 Special Use District - Sheffield Avenue Corridor.
   a.   Application. This section only applies to the area zoned Special Use
District - Sheffield Avenue Corridor, as defined and outlined by the site map
found in Appendix A of Ordinance No. 2009-17 and the legal description found in
Appendix B of Ordinance No. 2009-17, the contents of which are incorporated by
reference as part of this section.
   b.   Developmental standards. The developmental standards for this District,
including but not limited to, regulations as to the development, maintenance
and use of property within the District, shall be found in the "Sheffield
Avenue Corridor Plan" ("Developmental Plan"), containing eighty-four (84) pages
of text, including the cover, which is contained as Appendix C of Ordinance No.
2009-17, the contents of which is incorporated by reference as part of this
section.
   c.   Conflict. If the developmental standards for the District as outlined
and contained in the Developmental Plan are found to be in conflict with the
developmental standards found in any section of the Zoning Ordinance of the
Town of Dyer, Indiana, the standards found in the Developmental Plan shall
prevail.
   d.   Application Process/Site Plan Review. The application and site plan
review process shall be governed by Sections
10-159 and
10-130(d)(9) of the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Dyer, as amended from time
to time.
   e.   Amendment of Zoning Map. The official zoning map, incorporated by
reference into the Zoning Ordinance, shall be amended by designating the area
described by the map (Appendix A of Ordinance 2009-17) and legal description
(Appendix B of Ordinance 2009-17) attached hereto as a Special use District -
Sheffield Avenue Corridor and the same shall be incorporated by reference into
the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2009-17, 11-18-09)
Sec. 10-167.2 Public Hearing on Petition; Recommendation.
   a.   The Plan Commission shall, after notice as required by the Plan
Commission Rules, conduct a public hearing on any petition for a use in the
corridor which is not a stated permitted use;
   b.   The Plan Commission shall, after the public hearing, make a
recommendation on the petition to the Town Council. That recommendation shall
be a favorable recommendation, unfavorable recommendation, or no
recommendation;
   c.   The decision of the Plan Commission shall be certified to the Town
Council which shall vote on the petition within ninety (90) days after
certification to the Town Council. If the Town Council does not vote to deny
the petition within ninety (90) days, the petition is considered approved.
(Ord. No. 2018-02, 5-24-18)
Division III. Sexually Oriented Businesses.
Sec. 10-168.1 Policy.
   It is the purpose of this Division III (Sections
10-168.1 through
10-168.22) as amended from time to time, to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the Town, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses from occurring
within the Town. The provisions of this division have neither the purpose nor
effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it
is not the intent or effect of this division to restrict or deny access by
adults to sexually oriented materials which are protected by the First
Amendment of the United States Constitution or the Indiana State Constitution,
or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent or effect of
this division to, in any way, condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material or material harmful to minors.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.2 Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   (a)   Employee. A person who works or performs in and/or for a sexually
oriented business, regardless of whether or not said person is paid a salary,
wage or other compensation by the operator of said business.
   (b)   Establishment. Means and includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any such sexually oriented business
as a new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, regardless of whether it
currently exists as a sexually oriented business, to any of the sexually
oriented businesses defined in this division;
      (3)   The addition of any of the sexually oriented businesses defined in
this division to any other existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any such sexually oriented business.
   (c)   Knowledge or Knowledge of Such Nuisance. Having knowledge of the
content and character of the patently offensive sexual conduct which appears in
the lewd matter.
   (d)   Lewd matter. Any matter which:
      (1)   The average person finds, when applying contemporary community
standards and when considered as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest; and
      (2)   Depicts or describes patently offensive representations simulated;
or
         a.   Ultimate sexual acts, normal, perverted, or actual; or
         b.   Masturbation, excretory functions, or the exhibition of the
genitals or genital area.
Nothing herein is intended to include or proscribe any matter which, when
considered as a whole and in the context in which it is used, possesses serious
literary, artistic or political scientific value.
   (e)   Matter. A motion picture film or a publication, or both.
   (f)   Motion Picture Film. Any:
      (1)   Film or plate negative; or
      (2)   Film or plate positive; or
      (3)   Film designed to be projected on a screen for exhibition;
      (4)   Films, glass slides or transparencies, either in negative or
positive form, designed for exhibition by projection on a screen; or
      (5)   Video tape or any other medium used to electronically reproduce
images on a screen.
   (g)   Nudity or State of Nudity.
      (1)   The appearance of bare human buttocks, anus, male or female
genitals, or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely and fully cover a human
buttocks, anus, male or female genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of
the female breast.
   (h)   Operator. Includes the owner, permit holder, custodian, manager,
operator or other person in charge of any permitted or licensed premises.
   (i)   Permitted or Licensed Premises.  Any premises that requires a license
and/or permit for operation and that is classified as a sexually oriented
business.
   (j)   Permittee and/or Licensee. A person in whose name a permit and/or
license to operate a sexually oriented business has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a permit and/or
license.
   (k)   Person. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, organization, or other legal entity.
   (l)   Place. Includes, but is not limited to, any building, structure or
place, or any separate part or portion thereof, whether permanent or not, or
the ground itself.
   (m)   Public Building. Any building owned, leased or held by the United
States, the State of Indiana, the County of Lake, the Town of Dyer, any special
district, school district, or any other agency or political subdivision of the
State of Indiana or the United States, which building is used for governmental
purposes.
   (n)   Public Park or Recreation Area. Public land which has been designated
for park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, open space, wilderness areas, or
other similar public land within the Town which is under the control,
operation, or management of the Town park and recreation authorities.
   (o)   Publication. Includes any books, magazine, article, pamphlet, writing,
painting, illustration, picture, sound recording, or motion picture film which
is offered for sale or exhibition in a coin-operated machine.
   (p)   Regularly.  The featuring of a continuous presentation of sexual
material including, but not limited to, films, movies, videos, and the like,
depicting specified sexual activities or displaying specified anatomical areas
as one of the very objectives of the commercial enterprise.
   (q)   Religious institution. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or other
building, which is used primarily for religious worship and related religious
activities.
   (r)   Residential District or Residential Use. A single family dwelling,
duplex, townhouse, multiple family, mobile home park or subdivision as defined
in the Town of Dyer Zoning Ordinance.
   (s)   Sale. A passing of title or right of possession from a seller to a
buyer for valuable consideration and shall include, but is not limited to, any
lease, rental arrangement or other transaction wherein and whereby any valuable
consideration is received for the use of, or transfer of possession of, lewd
matter.
   (t)   School. Any public or private educational facility including, but not
limited to, child day-care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, colleges and universities. The term school includes the school
grounds, but does not include facilities used primarily for another purpose
which are only incidentally used as a school.
   (u)   Semi-Nude or Semi-Nudity. A state of dress in which clothing covers no
more than the genitals, anus, pubic region and areola of the female breast, as
well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   (v)   Sexually Oriented Business.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
novelty shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, massage parlor, sexual encounter establishment,
escort agency or nude model studio, each of which are more particularly defined
as follows:
      (1)   Adult Arcade. An establishment where, for any form of
consideration, one (1) or more still or motion picture projectors, slide
projectors, or similar machines, or other image producing machines, for viewing
by five (5) or fewer persons each, are regularly used to show films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   Adult Bookstore, Adult Novelty Shop or Adult Video Store.  A
commercial establishment which has as a significant or substantial portion of
its stock-in-trade, or derives a significant or substantial portion of its
revenues, or devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior
business or advertising to the sale, rental or viewing, for any form of
consideration, of any one (1) or more of the following:
         a.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other visual
representations which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         b.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use
or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
         c.   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that
do not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials depicting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, and
still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty shop or adult video
store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty shop
or adult video store, so long as one of its principal business purposes is the
offering for sale, rental or viewing, for any form of consideration, the
specified materials which depict or describe “specified anatomical areas" or
“specified sexual activities.”
      (3)   Adult Cabaret. A nightclub, bar, restaurant bottle club, or similar
commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which
regularly features:
         a.   Persons who appear nude or in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
         b.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities, or
         c.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   Adult Motel.  A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment
which:
         a.   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration,
which provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas and which advertises the availability
of this sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign visible from the
public right-of-way, or by means of any off-premises advertising including, but
not limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, leaflets, radio or
television; and
         b.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than
ten (10) hours or allows a tenant or occupant to sub-rent the sleeping room for
a time period of less than ten (10) hours.
      (5)   Adult Motion Picture Theater. A commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
for any form of consideration.
      (6)   Adult Theater. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear nude, in a state of nudity or semi-nudity, or live
performances which are characterized by exposure of specified anatomical areas
or by specified sexual activities.
      (7)   Escort. A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or
offers to act as a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees
or offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for
another person.
      (8)   Escort Agency. A person or business association who furnishes,
offers to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary
business purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
      (9)   Massage Parlor. Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentation, electric or
magnetic treatments, or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body
which occurs as a part of, or in connection with, specified sexual activities,
or where any person providing such treatment, manipulation, or service related
thereto, exposes his or her specified anatomical areas. The definition of
sexually oriented businesses shall not include the practice of massage in or by
any licensed hospital, licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath, or
any nurse or technician working under the supervision of a licensed physician,
surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, or by trainers for any amateur,
semiprofessional or professional athlete or athletic team or school athletic
program, or by any person so licensed to perform such activities.
      (10)   Nude Model Studio. Any place where a person who regularly appears
in a state of nudity or displays specified anatomical areas for money or any
form of consideration and is to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.
      (11)   Sexual Encounter Establishment. A business or commercial
establishment that, as one of its primary business purposes offers, for any
form of consideration, a place where two (2) or more persons may congregate,
associate, or consort for the purpose of engaging in specified sexual
activities or the exposure of specified anatomical areas, or activities when
one (1) or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity. The
definition of sexually oriented businesses shall not include an establishment
where a medical practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar
professional person licensed by the state engages in medically approved and
recognized sexual therapy.
    (w)   Specified Anatomical Areas. Any of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   (x)   Specified Sexual Activities. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence; or
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of, or in connection with, any of the
activities set forth in subdivisions (a) through (d) of this subsection.
   (y)   Substantial Enlargement of a Sexually Oriented Business. An increase
in the floor areas occupied by a sexually oriented business by more than
fifteen percent (15%), as the floor areas exist on the date Ordinance No. 2002-
14 takes effect.
   (z)   Transfer of Ownership or Control of a Sexually Oriented Business. Any
of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise,
which transfers ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of a person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.3 Permit Required.
   (a)   No person shall conduct, maintain, operate, or cause to be conducted,
maintained, or operated, any sexually oriented business within the corporate
limits of the Town without first being licensed under this division.
   (b)   The Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its designee,
is responsible for granting, denying, revoking, renewing, suspending, and
canceling sexually oriented business permits for proposed or existing sexually
oriented businesses. The Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its
designee, is also responsible for ascertaining whether a proposed sexually
oriented business for which a permit is being requested complies with all
applicable zoning laws and/or regulations now in effect or as amended or
enacted subsequent to the effective date of Ordinance No. 2002-14 in the Town
and the Town's Comprehensive Plan.
   (c)   The Town of Dyer Code Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for
inspecting a proposed, permitted or non-permitted sexually oriented business in
order to ascertain whether it is in compliance with applicable statutes and
ordinances.
   (d)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning. Any person desiring to operate
a sexually oriented business shall file with the Town an original and two (2)
copies of a sworn permit application on the standard application form supplied
by the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its designee.
   (e)   The completed application shall contain the following information and
shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   In the event that an applicant is:
         a.   An individual, the individual shall state his/her legal name, and
all aliases, and shall submit satisfactory proof that he/she is at least
eighteen (18) years of age;
         b.   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name, and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
         c.   A corporation or limited liability company, such entity shall
state its complete name, the date of its incorporation or organization,
evidence that the entity is in good standing under the laws of the State of
Indiana, and the name and address of the individual registered as agent for
service of process.
      (2)   In the event that an applicant intends to operate the sexually
oriented business under a name other than that of the applicant, he/she must:
         a.   Include the sexually oriented business's name in the application;
         b.   Submit the required Indiana registration documents for said name.
      (3)   Whether the applicant or any other individual listed in the
application holds any other permits and/or licenses under this division or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city, town,
county, or state and, if so, the names and locations of such other permitted
businesses.
      (4)   The single classification of permit for which the applicant is
filing.
      (5)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business, including
a legal description of the property, common street address, and telephone
number(s), if any.
      (6)   The applicant's business mailing address.
      (7)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six (6) inches.
      (8)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to application by a State of Indiana registered land
surveyor depicting the property lines and the structures containing any
established existing uses regulated by this division within one thousand
(1,000) feet of the property to be certified, the property lines of any
established religious institution/ synagogue, school, or public park or
recreation area within one thousand (1,000) feet of the property to be
certified and the property lines of any residentially zoned area or residential
property within one thousand (1,000) feet of the property to be certified. For
purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if
it is in existence at the time an application is submitted.
      (9)   In the event that a person wishes to operate a sexually oriented
business which shall exhibit films, video cassettes or other video
reproductions on the premises which depict specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, then said person shall comply with the application
requirements stated at Section
10-168.14.
   (f)   Applicants for a permit under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement application information required by this section in
the event that said information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The failure to comply with said continuing duty within thirty (30)
days from the date of such change shall be a valid and lawful basis for
suspension of a permit.
   (g)   In the event that the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning,
or its designee, determines or learns at any time that the applicant has
improperly completed the application for a proposed sexually oriented business,
it shall promptly notify the applicant of such fact and allow the applicant ten
(10) days within which to properly complete the application. (The time period
for granting or denying a permit shall be stayed during the period in which the
applicant is allowed an opportunity to properly complete the application.)
   (h)   An applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
division, and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
all applicable health, fire and building codes and laws, and any other
applicable federal or state laws.
   (i)   An applicant shall be required to pay a non-refundable application fee
of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) at the time of the filing of an
application under this section of this division, as amended from time to time.
   (j)   Prior to obtaining any permit or license to operate any sexually
oriented business deemed in this division, and as part of any application for a
permit under this section, an applicant shall obtain from the Town of Dyer
Department of Planning and Zoning, or its designee, a certification that the
proposed location of such business complies with the Town of Dyer Zoning
Ordinance.
   (k)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or Town permits
and/or licenses shall not exempt him/her from the requirement of obtaining a
sexually oriented business permit under this section of this division.
   (l)   By applying for a permit under this division, an applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to the provisions of this division and to the exercise
by the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its designee, and all
other Town agencies charged with enforcing the laws, ordinances and codes
applicable in the Town, of their respective responsibilities under this
division.
   (m)   An applicant shall be required to provide the Town with the names of
any and all employees who are required to be licensed pursuant to Section
10-168.13. This shall be a continuing obligation of an applicant even after a
permit is granted or renewed.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.4 Investigation and Application.
   (a)   Upon receipt of an application properly filed with the Town, and upon
payment of the non-refundable application fee, the Town's Zoning Administrator
shall immediately stamp the application as received and shall immediately
thereafter transmit photocopies of the application to all Town agencies
responsible for enforcement of health, fire and building codes and state and
federal laws. Each department or agency shall promptly conduct an investigation
of the applicant, application and the proposed sexually oriented business in
accordance with its responsibilities under applicable law and as set forth in
this division. Said investigation shall be completed within twenty (20) days of
receipt of the application by the Town's Zoning Administrator. At the
conclusion of its investigation, each department or agency shall indicate on
the photocopy of the application its approval or disapproval of the
application, date it, sign it and, in the event the department or agency
recommends disapproval of the application, the reasons therefor.
   (b)   A department or agency shall recommend disapproval of an application
if it finds that the proposed sexually oriented business will be in violation
of any provision of any applicable statute, code, ordinance, regulation or
other law in effect in the Town. After indicating its recommendation of
approval or disapproval of an application, each department or agency shall
immediately return the photocopy of the application to the Town's Zoning
Administrator, who shall forward the application and any accompanying materials
to the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning for consideration.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.5 Issuance of Permit.
   (a)   The Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its designee,
shall grant or deny an application for a permit within thirty (30) days from
the date of its proper filing. Upon the expiration of said thirty (30) days,
and unless an applicant requests and is granted a reasonable extension of time,
an applicant shall be permitted to begin operating the business for which the
permit is sought, unless and until the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and
Zoning, or its designee, notifies the applicant of the denial of the
application and states the reasons(s) for that denial.
   (b)   Grant of Application for Permit.
      (1)   The Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its
designee, shall grant the application unless one (1) or more of the criteria
set forth in subsection (c) below is present.
      (2)   The permit, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person, or persons, to whom the permit is granted, the permit's expiration date
and the address of the sexually oriented business. The permit shall also
indicate that the sexually oriented business shall be subject to prohibitions
against public nudity and indecency pursuant to I.C., 35-45-4-1, as amended
from time to time. The permit shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near
the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it can be read easily at
any time.
   (c)   Denial of Application for Permit.
      (1)   The Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its
designee, shall deny the application for any of the following reasons:
         a.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
         b.   An applicant has failed to provide all of the information
required by this section or the permit application itself for the issuance of
the permit, or has falsely answered a question or request for information on
the application form.
         c.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business have
been inspected by the appropriate and responsible Town departments and/or
agencies and have been found to be in violation of applicable Town and/or state
health, fire and building codes.
         d.   The application or permit fees required by this division have not
been paid.
         e.   An applicant of the proposed sexually oriented business is in
violation of, or is not in compliance with, any of the provisions of this
division or the Town of Dyer Zoning Ordinance.
         f.   The granting of the application would violate a federal or state
law, statute, ordinance, or court order.
         g.   An applicant knowingly has in his/her employ, an employee who
does not have a valid license as required in Section
10-168.13.
      (2)   In the event that the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and
Zoning, or its designee, denies the application, it shall notify an applicant
of the denial and state the reasons therefor.
      (3)   In the event that a person applies for a permit for a particular
location within a period of twelve (12) months from the date of denial of a
previous application for a permit at that location, and there has not been an
intervening change in the circumstances which could reasonably be expected to
lead to a different decision regarding the former reason(s) for denial, the
application shall be denied.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.6 Annual Permit Fee.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business permit shall be two hundred
dollars ($200.00).
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.7 Inspection.
   (a)   An applicant or permittee shall permit duly designated representatives
of the Town of Dyer and Lake County, Indiana, to enter and inspect the premises
of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of insuring compliance with any
and all applicable laws, statutes, codes, ordinances, and the like, at any time
it is occupied or open for business.
   (b)   A person who refuses to permit such inspection of the premises at any
time that it is occupied or open for business, as described in subsection (a)
above, shall be in violation of this division.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.8 Expiration of Permit.
   (a)   Each permit shall expire one (1) year from the date of issuance and
may be renewed only by making application as provided in Section 10-168.03 (for
applications for permit renewals, filing of the original survey shall be
sufficient). An application for renewal shall be made at least thirty (30) days
before the permit expiration date and, when made less than thirty (30) days
before the permit expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be
affected.
   (b)   When the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its
designee, denies renewal of a permit, the applicant shall not be issued a
permit under this division for a period of one (1) year from the date of
denial. If, subsequent to denial, the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and
Zoning, or its designee, determines that the basis for denial of the renewal of
the permit has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a permit if at
least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.9 Suspension of Permit.
   (a)   The Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its designee,
shall suspend a permit for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days if it
determines that a permittee, or an employee of a permittee, has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this division;
or
      (2)   Been under the influence of alcoholic beverages or any controlled
substances while working in or on the premises of the sexually oriented
business; or
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of the premises of the sexually
oriented business as authorized by this division; or
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the premises of the
sexually oriented business; or
      (5)   Operated the sexually oriented business in violation of a building,
fire, health, or zoning statute, code, ordinance or regulation, whether
federal, state or local, said determination being based on investigation by the
division, department or agency charged with enforcing said rules or laws. In
the event of such state or federal statute, code, ordinance or regulation
violation, the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its designee,
shall promptly notify the permittee of the violation and shall allow the
permittee a three (3) day period in which to correct the violation. If the
permittee fails to correct the violation before the expiration of the three (3)
day period, the Town of Dyer Department Planning and Zoning, or its designee,
shall forthwith suspend the permit and shall notify the permittee of the
suspension.
      (6)   Knowingly employed a person who does not have a valid license as
required in Section
10-168.13.
   (b)   The suspension of the permit shall remain in effect until the
violation of the applicable statute, code, ordinance or regulation has been
corrected.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.10 Revocation of Permit.
   (a)   The Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its designee,
shall revoke a permit if a cause of suspension in Section
10-168.9 occurs and the permit has been suspended within the preceding twelve
(12) months.
   (b)   The Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its designee,
shall revoke a permit upon determining that:
      (1)   A permittee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process that tended to enhance the applicant's
opportunity for obtaining a permit; or
      (2)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances in or on the premises; or
      (3)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on
the premises; or
      (4)   A permittee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the permittee's permit was suspended; or
      (5)   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person, or persons, committed an offense occurring in or on the permitted
premises, which offense constitutes a specified criminal act for which a
conviction has been obtained and the person, or persons, were employees of the
sexually oriented business at the time the offenses were committed. The fact
that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of
the permit; or
      (6)   A permittee is convicted of tax violations for any taxes or fees
related to a sexually oriented business; or
      (7)   A permittee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or any other specified
sexual activities to occur in or on the permitted premises; or
      (8)   A permittee has operated, or is operating, more than one (1)
sexually oriented business under a single roof under the terms of a single
permit; or
      (9)   A permittee has engaged in or attempted to engage in a transfer of
permit, in violation of Section
10-168.12.
   (c)   When the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its
designee, revokes a permit, the revocation shall continue for one (1) year and
the permittee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business permit for a
period of one (1) year from the date the revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning,
or its designee, finds that the basis for revocation under Section
10-168.10 has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a permit if at
least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date revocation became effective.
If the permit was revoked under Section
10-168.10, an applicant may not be granted another permit until the specified
number of years required under Section
10-168.5 have elapsed.
(Ord. No. 2007-22, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.11 Judicial Review of Permit Denial, Suspension or Revocation.
   After denial of an application, denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of a permit, the applicant or permittee may seek
judicial review of the administrative action in Lake County, Indiana, Superior
or Circuit Court.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.12 Transfer of Permit.
   (a)   A permittee shall not operate a sexually oriented business under the
authority of a permit at any place other than the address designated in the
application for permit.
   (b)   A permittee shall not transfer his/her permit to another person.
   (c)   A permittee shall not transfer his/her permit to another location.
   (d)   Any attempt to transfer a permit, either directly or indirectly, in
violation of this section is hereby declared void and the permit shall be
deemed revoked.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.13 Sexually Oriented Business Employee License.
   (a)   Each individual who will be employed in a sexually oriented business,
as defined in Section
10-168.2(22), who engages in the services rendered by a nude model studio,
escort or escort agency, sexual encounter establishment, massage parlor (except
for massage parlors licensed pursuant to applicable provisions of the Dyer Town
Code), or a live performer or entertainer, shall be required to obtain a
sexually oriented business employee license. Each applicant shall pay a permit
fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00). Said fee is to cover the reasonable
administrative costs of the licensing application process.
   (b)   Before any applicant may be issued a sexually oriented business
employee license, an applicant shall submit on a form to be provided by the
Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its designee, the following
information:
      (1)   The applicant's name and any other names (including "stage" names
or aliases) used by the individual;
      (2)   Age, and date and place of birth;
      (3)   Height, weight, hair and eye color;
      (4)   Present business address and telephone number; and
      (5)   Acceptable written proof that the individual is at least eighteen
(18) years of age.
   (c)   After the application is completed and filed and the license fee is
paid, the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its designee,
shall issue a license unless it finds that one (1) or more of the following
findings is true:
      (1)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading, or
fraudulent statement of a material fact in the application for a license, or in
any report or record required to be filed with the Town of Dyer Department of
Planning and Zoning or any other department of the Town;
      (2)   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
      (3)   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by particular provisions of this division;
   (d)   Renewal of License.
      (1)   A license granted pursuant to this section shall be subject to
annual renewal by the Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its
designee, upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by the
Town of Dyer Department of Planning and Zoning, or its designee, that the
applicant has not committed any act during the existence of the previous
license period which would be grounds to deny the initial permit application.
      (2)   The renewal fee for the license shall be the same as the initial
application fee.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.14 Regulations Pertaining to Exhibition of Sexually Explicit Films
or Videos in Video Booths.
A person who operates, or causes to be operated, a sexually oriented business,
other than a sexually oriented motel/hotel, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued to said business under this division, which exhibits on
the premises in a viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet
of floor space, a film, video cassette or other video reproduction which
depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply
with the following requirements:
   (a)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business permit, an
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one (1) or more manager's stations, the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises wherein patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet of floor area with no dimension greater than
eight (8) feet. The diagram shall also designate the place where the permit
will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in
the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall not be required;
however, each diagram should be oriented to the north, or to some designated
street or object, and should be drawn to a designated scale with marked
dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimension of all areas of
the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six (6) inches.
The Town's Zoning Administrator, or his/her designee, may waive the filing of
the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a
diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of
the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
   (b)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (c)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station
may be made without the prior approval of the Town of Dyer Department of
Planning and Zoning, or its designee.
   (d)   It is the duty of the owner(s) and operator of the premises to insure
that at least one (1) employee is on duty and situated at each manager's
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (e)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises have two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access, for any purpose, from at least one (1) of the manager's stations. The
view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
manager's station.
   (f)   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) and operator of the premises, and
it shall also be the duty of any agents and employees present on the premises,
to insure that the view area specified in subsection (e) above remains
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials
or persons at all times, and to insure that no patron is permitted access to
any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons
will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection (a)
above.
   (g)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one (1) person at any one
(1) time. No holes, commonly known as "glory holes," shall be allowed in the
walls or partitions which separate each viewing room from an adjoining viewing
room or restroom.
   (h)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access and shall provide an illumination of not less than two (2.0)
footcandles, as measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the owner
(s) and operator of the premises, and it shall also be the duty of any agents
and employees present on the premises, to insure that the illumination
described herein is maintained at all times that any patron is present on the
premises.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.15 Prohibitions Regarding Minors and Sexually Oriented Businesses.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for a person who operates, or causes to be
operated, a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for said business under this division, to knowingly or, with
reasonable cause, permit, suffer or allow:
      (1)   Admittance of a person under eighteen (18) years of age to the
business premises.
      (2)   A person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to work at the
business premises as an employee.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the operator of each sexually oriented
business to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance at
all times during such sexually oriented business's regular business hours. It
shall be the duty of the attendant to prohibit any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years from entering the establishment. It shall be presumed that
an attendant knew a person was under the age of eighteen (18) unless the
attendant asked for and was furnished:
      (1)   A valid operator's, commercial operator's or chauffeur's license;
or
      (2)   A valid personal identification certificate issued by the State of
Indiana reflecting that such person is eighteen (18) years of age or older.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.16 Advertising and Lighting Regulations.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been issued for said
business under this division, to do any of the following;
      (1)   Advertise the presentation of any activity prohibited by any
applicable state statute or local ordinance;
      (2)   Display or otherwise exhibit the materials and/or performances at
such sexually oriented business in any advertising or any portion of the
interior premises which is visible from outside the premises. This prohibition
shall not extend to advertising the existence or location of such sexually
oriented business.
      (3)   Allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner, except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this division.
      (4)   Erect, construct, or maintain any sign for the sexually oriented
business other than as permitted by the Town of Dyer Zoning Ordinance, as
amended from time to time, and as follows:
         a.   Signage shall not contain photographs, silhouettes, drawings or
pictorial representations, in any manner, and may contain only the legal name
of the sexually oriented business.
         b.   Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of solid
color, and each such letter shall be the same print-type, size, and color. The
background behind such lettering on the display surface of a primary sign shall
be of a uniform and solid color.
      (5)   Allow the exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to a
sexually oriented business if the following conditions are met:
         a.   The establishment is a part of a commercial multiunit center; and
         b.   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multiunit center, including the exterior portions of the sexually oriented
business, are painted the same color as one (1) another, or are painted in such
a way so as to be a component of the overall architectural style or pattern of
the commercial multiunit center.
   (b)   All off-street parking areas and premises entrances to the sexually
oriented business shall be illuminated from dusk to closing hours of operation
with a lighting system which provides an average maintained horizontal
illumination of one (1.0) footcandle of light on the parking surface and/or
walkways. This required lighting level is established in order to provide
sufficient illumination of the parking areas and walkways serving the sexually
oriented business for the personal safety of patrons and employees and to
reduce the incidence of vandalism and criminal conduct. The lighting shall be
shown on the required sketch or diagram of the premises pursuant to Section
10-168.16.
   (c)   Nothing contained in this section of this division shall relieve the
operator(s) of a sexually oriented business from complying with the
requirements of the Town of Dyer, commonly known as the Sexually Oriented
Business Ordinance, as it may be amended from time to time, or any subsequently
enacted Town ordinances or regulations.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.17 Hours of Operation.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or cause to be
operated, a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit
has been issued for said business under this division, and allow such business
to remain open for business or to permit any employee to engage in a
performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a
service, or solicit a service, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m,
of any particular day.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while working as an employee of a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a permit has been
issued for said business under this division, to engage in a performance,
solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a service, or
solicit a service between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. of any
particular day.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.18 Nudity at Sexually Oriented Businesses Prohibited.
   No person shall allow public nudity in any sexually oriented business. Any
sexually oriented business which is found in violation of this section shall
have its permit suspended pursuant to the provisions of Section
10-168.9.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.19 Regulations Pertaining to Live Entertainment.
   (a)   For purposes of this section, live entertainment is defined as a
person who appears nude, semi-nude, or a performance which is characterized by
the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   (b)   No person shall perform live entertainment for patron(s) of a sexually
oriented business establishment, except upon a stage at least eighteen (18)
inches above the level of the floor, which stage is separated by a distance of
at least ten feet (10) from the nearest area occupied by patron(s). No patron
shall be permitted within ten feet (10) of the stage while the stage is
occupied by a performer.
   (c)   The sexually oriented business shall provide separate dressing room
facilities for female and male performers that shall not be occupied or used,
in any way, by anyone other than performers.
   (d)   The sexually oriented business shall provide access for performers
between the stage and the dressing rooms which is completely separated from the
patrons. If such separate access is not physically feasible, the sexually
oriented business shall provide a minimum four (4) foot wide walk aisle for
performers between the dressing room area and the stage, which walk aisle shall
be equipped with a railing, fence or other barrier separating the patrons and
the performers and which prevents any physical contact between patrons and
performers.
   (e)   No performer, either before, during, or after a performance, shall
have physical contact with any patron and no patron shall have physical contact
with any performer either before, during or after a performance. This
subsection shall only apply to physical contact while in or on the premises of
the sexually oriented business.
   (f)   Fixed rails at least thirty (30) inches in height shall be maintained
establishing the separations between performers and patrons that are required
by this section of this division.
   (g)   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any performer. A
patron who wishes to pay or give a gratuity to a performer shall place the
gratuity in a container that is, at all times, located separately from the
performers for the purpose of preventing any physical contact between a patron
and a performer. No performer shall solicit any gratuity from any patron.
   (h)   No operator of a sexually oriented business shall cause or allow a
performer to engage in any entertainment such as a "couch" or a "straddle"
dance with a patron while in or on the premises. No performer shall contract to
or engage in a "couch" or "straddle" dance with a patron while in or on the
premises. For purposes of this subsection, "couch" or "straddle" dance is
defined as an employee of the sexually oriented business intentionally touching
or otherwise coming within ten feet (10) of any patron while engaged in the
display or exposure of any "specified anatomical area" or any "specified sexual
activity." For purposes of this subsection, employee is defined as it is in
Section
10-168.2(1).
   (i)   This section shall not apply to an employee of a sexually oriented
business who, while acting as a waiter, waitress, host, hostess, or bartender,
comes within ten (10) feet of a patron. No employee shall engage in any
specified sexual activity or display or expose any specified anatomical area
while acting as a waiter, waitress, host, hostess, or bartender.
   (j)   Compliance with this section.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, sexually oriented business is defined
as set forth in Section
10-168.2(22). No sexually oriented business shall be considered to be in
compliance with this section until the Town's duly designated representative(s)
have inspected and approved the premises of the sexually oriented business. The
Town shall have ten (10) days from the date it receives written notice from the
operator that the premises are ready for inspection to determine if the
premises are in compliance with this section. Failure by the Town to determine
compliance within ten (10) days of the date it receives notice shall constitute
a finding of compliance under this section.
      (2)   An operator of a sexually oriented business that has been providing
live entertainment under a valid sexually oriented business permit shall have
the time periods listed below within which to bring the premises into
compliance with this section. Failure to do so while continuing to provide live
entertainment shall cause the sexually oriented business's permit to be
suspended under Section
10-168.9. The permit shall remain suspended until the premises are approved by
the Town's duly designated representative(s) as being in full compliance with
this section.
      (3)   An operator of a sexually oriented business that has been operating
under a valid permit for another classification of sexually oriented business,
and who seeks to provide live entertainment at that sexually oriented business,
shall apply for and receive a sexually oriented business permit for the
operation of a sexually oriented business providing live entertainment before
any live entertainment is provided at that sexually oriented business. No live
entertainment permit shall be issued until the sexually oriented business is
approved as being in full compliance with this section and all other applicable
requirements of this division.
      (4)   An applicant for a permit to operate a new sexually oriented
business who seeks to provide live entertainment shall apply for and receive a
sexually oriented business permit for the operation of a sexually oriented
business providing live entertainment before any live entertainment is
provided. No live entertainment permit shall be issued until the sexually
oriented business is approved as being in full compliance with this section and
all other applicable requirements of this division.
      (5)   Compliance with subsection (b) must occur within sixty (60) days
from the date this section becomes effective.
      (6)   Compliance with subsection (c) must occur within ninety (90) days
from the date this Section becomes effective.
      (7)   Compliance with subsection (d) must occur within ninety (90) days
from the date this section becomes effective.
      (8)   Compliance with subsection (e) must occur upon the date this
section becomes effective.
      (9)   Compliance with subsection (f) must occur within sixty (60) days
from the date this section becomes effective.
      (10)   Compliance with subsection (g) must occur upon the date this
section becomes effective.
      (11)   Compliance with subsection (h) must occur upon the date this
section becomes effective.
      (12)   Compliance with subsection (i) must occur upon the date this
section becomes effective.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.20 Exemptions.
   (a)   It is a defense to prosecution for any violation of this division that
a person appearing in a state of nudity or semi-nudity did so in a modeling
class operated:
      (1)   By a college, junior college or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         a.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
         b.   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
         c.   Where no more than one (1) nude model is on the premises at any
one (1) time.
   (b)   It is a defense to prosecution for a violation of this division that
an employee of a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a
permit has been issued under this Division III exposed any specified anatomical
area during the employee's bona fide use of a restroom, or during the
employee's bona fide use of a dressing room which is accessible only to
employees.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.21 Prohibition of Distribution of Sexual Devices.
   (a)   It is unlawful for anyone to distribute for commercial purposes, sell
or offer for sale, any device, instrument or paraphernalia designed or marketed
primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for sadomasochistic use or
abuse of themselves or others.
   (b)   Such devices, instruments or paraphernalia shall include, but are not
limited to, phallic shaped vibrators, dildos, muzzles, whips, chains, bather
restraints, racks, nonmedical enema kits, body piercing implements (excluding
earrings or other decorative jewelry) or other tools of sadomasochistic abuse.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-168.22 Penalties and Injunctive Relief.
   (a)   Any person who violates the provisions of this division, as amended
from time to time, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500) for each violation. Each day of continued violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (b)   In addition to seeking penalties against any individual who violates
the provisions of this division, as amended from time to time, the Town may
commence any and all necessary and appropriate legal action in any court of
competent jurisdiction to prevent or remedy any violation or non-compliance
with this Division III. This shall include, but is not limited to, seeking an
equitable action for injunctive relief against any individuals violating the
provisions of this Division III or an action at law for damages, as well as the
recovery of attorney fees related to the same.
   (c)   Nothing herein shall prevent or restrict the Town from prosecuting any
violation of this Division III as an ordinance violation in the Town Court and
seeking all available remedies permitted thereby.
   (d)   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the Town, and the Town shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this section to the full
extent allowed by law.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-169 through Sec. 10-174 Reserved for Future Use.
Division IV. Fences.
Sec. 10-175 Front Yard Fence Regulations.
   Fences shall not be permitted in any required front yard in any residential
district or along the edge of any front yard, unless the Zoning Administrator
shall find that the proposed fence is for decorative purposes only such as a
split rail fence with a total fence height not greater than forty-eight (48)
inches, a picket fence of not more than thirty-six (36) inches in height, or a
wrought iron fence also not more than thirty-six (36) inches in height, and
that said fence will not obstruct clear vision, and will not be constructed and
situated in such a way as to create a safety hazard.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-176 Barbed Wire.
   a.   Barbed wire shall not be permitted on any fence in any manner which is
located within ten (10) feet of a residential district.
   b.   Also, where permissible, barbed wire added to the top of any fence will
be counted as applying toward the overall height of said fence.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-177 Residential Fences.
   Residential fences shall be limited to a maximum of six (6) feet in height.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-178 Fences in Commercial Districts.
   Fences in commercial districts shall be limited to a maximum height of eight
(8) feet.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-179 Fences in Industrial Districts.
   Fences in industrial districts shall be limited to a maximum of ten (10)
feet in height.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-180 Front Yard Requirements in Commercial and Industrial Districts.
   Commercial and industrial zoning districts shall be allowed to construct
fences in required front yards so long as clear vision can be maintained.
(Ord. No. 2007-33, 12-27-07)
Sec. 10-181 through Sec. 10-189 Reserved for Future Use.
CHAPTER 11
COMPARATIVE TABLES
   This Chapter is designed as a research tool to assist the reader in
accessing information in the 1995 Dyer Town Code.
   The first table references Resolutions adopted by the Town Council to new
Sections of the 1995 Dyer Town Code.
   The second table references Ordinances passed by the Town Council to new
Sections of the 1995 Dyer Town Code.
TABLE 1 – RESOLUTIONS
Resolution Number Date of Adoption New 1995 Code Section(s)
Resolution Number        Date of Adoption New 1995 Code Section(s)
Res. No. 683             12-28-67         Sec. 2-190
Res. No. 770             10-13-70         Sec. 5-45
Res. No. 78-54, § 1-5   11-14-78         Sec. 2-151
Res. No. 82-8, § 1      03-09-82         Sec. 2-9
Res. No. 82-8, § 4      03-09-82         Sec. 2-10
Res. No. 84-4            02-14-84         Sec. 2-115
Res. No. 85-7, § 1      08-13-85         Sec. 2-172
Res. No. 85-7, § 2      08-13-85         Sec. 2-173
Res. No. 85-7, § 3      08-13-85         Sec. 2-174
Res. No. 85-7, § 4      08-13-85         Sec. 2-175
Res. No. 5               06-12-90         Sec. 9-200
Res. No. 91-9            04-09-91         Sec. 9-34
Res. No. 91-17           07-09-91         Sec. 9-18
Res. No. 91-22, § 1     12-10-91         Sec. 2-145
Res. No. 91-22, § 2     12-10-91         Sec. 2-146
Res. No. 92-2            02-10-92         Sec. 2-150
Res. No. 92-5, § 2      02-10-92         Sec. 2-140
Res. No. 92-5, § 3      02-10-92         Sec. 2-141
Res. No. 92-15           04-14-92         Sec. 2-182
Res. No. 92-36           11-10-92         Sec. 2-141
Res. No. 93-11           05-11-93         Sec. 2-58
Res. No. 93-14           08-10-93         Sec. 9-158
Res. No. 93-20, § I     08-10-93         Sec. 2-158
Res. No. 93-20, § II    08-10-93         Sec. 2-159
Res. No. 93-20, § III   08-10-93         Sec. 2-160
Res. No. 93-20, § IV    08-10-93         Sec. 2-161
Res. No. 93-20, § V     08-10-93         Sec. 2-162
Res. No. 93-20, § VI    08-10-93         Sec. 2-163
Res. No. 93-20, § VII   08-10-93         Sec. 2-164
Res. No. 93-23           09-14-93         Sec. 5-7
Res. No. 93-26, § I-IV  10-12-93         Sec. 4-125
Res. No. 94-2, § 1      01-11-94         Sec. 2-117
Res. No. 94-2, § 2      01-11-94         Sec. 2-117
Res. No. 94-2, § 3      01-11-94         Sec. 2-117
Res. No. 94-1            04-12-94         Sec. 2-178
Res. No. 95-47           12-21-95         Sec. 2-151
Res. No. 95-56           12-12-95         Sec. 2-182
Res. No. 95-57           12-12-95         Sec. 2-179
Res. No. 2007-02         1-17-07          Repeal Secs. 2-116, 2-118
Res. No. 2009-19         11-18-09         Sec. 2-116
Res. No. 2017-20         9-14-17          Sec. 10-75
Res. No. 2021-5          2-11-21          9-201
Res. No. 2021-12         4-8-21           2-209.7
Res. No. 2021-13         4-8-21           2-234
Res. No. 2021-15         4-8-21           2-152
Res. No. 2022-16         5-12-22          2-209.7
Res. No. 2024-24, §§ 1-9-19-24          3-19
                                         
 
TABLE 2 - ORDINANCES
Ordinance Number Date of Passage New 1995 Code Section(s)
Ordinance Number     Date of  New 1995 Code Section(s)
                     Passage
Ord. No. 15, 1       05-02-11 Sec. 8-188
Ord. No. 25, 4       01-07-13 Sec. 6-118
Ord. No. 72, 1       02-06-23 Sec. 6-124
Ord. No. 72, 2       02-06-23 Sec. 6-125
Ord. No. 157         04-02-35 Sec. 4-124
Ord. No. 167, 1      01-04-38 Sec. 8-189
Ord. No. 167, 2      01-04-38 Sec. 8-189
Ord. No. 367, 1      11-12-57 Sec. 8-176
Ord. No. 367, 3      11-12-57 Sec. 8-177
Ord. No. 367, 4      11-12-57 Sec. 8-179
Ord. No. 367, 5      11-12-57 Sec. 8-180
Ord. No. 367, 6      11-12-57 Sec. 8-181
Ord. No. 367, 7      11-12-57 Sec. 8-182
Ord. No. 392, 2      12-09-58 Sec. 6-117
Ord. No. 392, 3      12-09-58 Sec. 6-119
Ord. No. 393, 1      12-09-58 Sec. 6-116
Ord. No. 399, 1      02-10-59 Sec. 6-110
Ord. No. 399, 2      02-10-59 Sec. 6-111
Ord. No. 399, 3      02-10-59 Sec. 6-112
Ord. No. 399, 4      02-10-59 Sec. 6-113
Ord. No. 416, 1      12-08-59 Sec. 4-84
Ord. No. 416, 2      12-08-59 Sec. 4-85
Ord. No. 416, 3      12-08-59 Sec. 4-86
Ord. No. 416, 4      12-08-59 Sec. 4-87
Ord. No. 416, 5      12-08-59 Sec. 4-88
Ord. No. 416, 6      12-08-59 Sec. 4-89
Ord. No. 416, 7      12-08-59 Sec. 4-90
Ord. No. 416, 8      12-08-59 Sec. 4-91
Ord. No. 416, 9      12-08-59 Sec. 4-92
Ord. No. 416, 10     12-08-59 Sec. 4-93
Ord. No. 416, 11     12-08-59 Sec. 4-94
Ord. No. 416, 12     12-08-59 Sec. 4-95
Ord. No. 416, 13     12-08-59 Sec. 4-96
Ord. No. 416, 14     12-08-59 Sec. 4-97
Ord. No. 522, I, 2   09-13-63 Sec. 2-4 (a)
Ord. No. 568, 1(a)   11-10-64 Sec. 6-134
Ord. No. 568, 2      11-10-64 Sec. 6-135
Ord. No. 568, 3      11-10-64 Sec. 6-137
Ord. No. 568, 10     11-10-64 Sec. 6-141
Ord. No. 568, 11     11-10-64 Sec. 6-141
Ord. No. 656, 9      05-09-67 Sec. 4-92
Ord. No. 687, 1, 2   - -68    Sec. 8-190
Ord. No. 740, 1      09-09-69 Sec. 4-29
Ord. No. 740, 2      09-09-69 Sec. 4-30
Ord. No. 740, 3      09-09-69 Sec. 4-31
Ord. No. 740, 4      09-09-69 Sec. 4-32
Ord. No. 740, 5      09-09-69 Sec. 4-33
Ord. No. 740, 6      09-09-69 Sec. 4-34
Ord. No. 740, 7      09-09-69 Sec. 4-35
Ord. No. 740, 8      09-09-69 Sec. 4-36
Ord. No. 769, 9      10-13-70 Sec. 4-92
Ord. No. 791, Title  06-08-71 Sec. 10-104
XIV
Ord. No. 791, Title  06-08-71 Sec. 10-105
XIV, 1
Ord. No. 791, Title  06-08-71 Sec. 10-106
XIV, 2
Ord. No. 791, Title  06-08-71 Sec. 10-107
XIV, 3
Ord. No. 791, Title  06-08-71 Sec. 10-108
XIV, 4
Ord. No. 791, Title  06-08-71 Sec. 10-109
XIV, 5
Ord. No. 791, Title  06-08-71 Sec. 10-110
XIV, 6
Ord. No. 791, Title  06-08-71 Sec. 10-111
XIV, 7
Ord. No. 791, Title  06-08-71 Sec. 10-112
XV
Ord. No. 791,        06-08-71 Sec. 10-113
Appendix
Ord. No. 791,        06-08-71 Sec. 10-114
Appendix
Ord. No. 816, 1      02-08-72 Sec. 2-183(a)
Ord. No. 816, 2      02-08-72 Sec. 2-183(b)
Ord. No. 816, 3      02-08-72 Sec. 2-183(c)
Ord. No. 816, 4      02-08-72 Sec. 2-183(d)
Ord. No. 819, 1      05-09-72 Sec. 5-6
Ord. No. 819, 2      05-09-72 Sec. 5-7
Ord. No. 819, 5      05-09-72 Sec. 5-10
Ord. No. 819, 6      05-09-72 Sec. 5-11
Ord. No. 819, 7      05-09-72 Sec. 5-12
Ord. No. 819, 8      05-09-72 Sec. 5-13
Ord. No. 900, 2      05-14-74 Sec. 2-130
Ord. No. 900, 3      05-14-74 Sec. 2-131
Ord. No. 900, VII    05-14-74 Sec. 2-132
Ord. No. 900, VIII   05-14-74 Sec. 2-133
Ord. No. 900, IX     05-14-74 Sec. 2-134
Ord. No. 900, X      05-14-74 Sec. 2-135
Ord. No. 902, 1-10   06-11-74 Sec. 6-136
Ord. No. 903, 1-5    07-09-74 Sec. 8-10
Ord. No. 903, 6, 7   07-09-74 Sec. 8-11
Ord. No. 903, 8-11   07-09-74 Sec. 8-12
Ord. No. 903, 15     07-09-74 Sec. 8-15
Ord. No. 908         08-13-74 Sec. 2-167
Ord. No. 981         12-29-75 Sec. 2-131
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-19
II, 1
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-20
II, 2
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-21
II, 3
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-22
II, 4
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-23
II, 5
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-24
II, 6
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-25
II, 7
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-27
II, 9
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-28
II, 10
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-29
II, 11
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-32
III, 2
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-33
III, 3
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-34
IV, 1
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-34
IV, 2
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-34
IV, 3
Ord. No. 993, Art.   04-13-76 Sec. 5-35
IV, 4
Ord. No. 78-28       07-11-78 Sec. 2-189
Ord. No. 900, VII    05-14-79 Sec. 2-132
Ord. No. 900, VIII   05-14-79 Sec. 2-133
Ord. No. 900, IX     05-14-79 Sec. 2-134
Ord. No. 900, X      05-14-79 Sec. 2-135
Ord. No. 79-16       06-12-79 Sec. 8-201
Ord. No. 80-02, 1    01-08-80 Sec. 2-5 (a)
Ord. No. 80-02, 2    01-08-80 Sec. 2-5 (b)
Ord. No. 80-02, 3    01-08-80 Sec. 2-5 (c)
Ord. No. 80-19, 1    04-08-80 Sec. 4-68
Ord. No. 80-20, 1    04-08-80 Sec. 4-102
Ord. No. 80-20, 1    04-08-80 Sec. 4-103
Ord. No. 80-20, 1    04-08-80 Sec. 4-104
Ord. No. 80-20, 1    04-08-80 Sec. 4-105
Ord. No. 80-20, 1    04-08-80 Sec. 4-106
Ord. No. 80-20, 1    04-08-80 Sec. 4-107
Ord. No. 80-20, 1    04-08-80 Sec. 4-108
Ord. No. 80-20, 1    04-08-80 Sec. 4-109
Ord. No. 80-20, 1    04-08-80 Sec. 4-112
Ord. No. 80-20, 1    04-08-80 Sec. 4-113
Ord. No. 80-20, 1    04-08-80 Sec. 4-114
Ord. No. 80-68, 2    12-09-81 Sec. 2-188
Ord. No. 80-71, 2    12-23-80 Sec. 9-202
Ord. No. 80-71, 3    12-23-80 Sec. 9-203
Ord. No. 80-71, 4    12-23-80 Sec. 9-204
Ord. No. 81-2, 1     02-10-81 Sec. 9-125
Ord. No. 81-2, 2     02-10-81 Sec. 9-126
Ord. No. 81-2, 4[a]- 02-10-81 Sec. 9-128
[e]
Ord. No. 81-2, 4[f]  02-10-81 Sec. 9-128
Ord. No. 81-2, 7     02-10-81 Sec. 9-131
Ord. No. 81-2, 8     02-10-81 Sec. 9-132
Ord. No. 81-2, 9     02-10-81 Sec. 9-133
Ord. No. 81-2, 10    02-10-81 Sec. 9-134
Ord. No. 81-2, 11    02-10-81 Sec. 9-135
Ord. No. 81-2, 12    02-10-81 Sec. 9-136
Ord. No. 81-3, 1     02-10-81 Sec. 9-100
Ord. No. 81-3, 2     02-10-81 Sec. 9-101
Ord. No. 81-3, 2[a]  02-10-81 Sec. 9-101
Ord. No. 81-3, 3[a]- 02-10-81 Sec. 9-102
[d]
Ord. No. 81-3, 3[f]- 02-10-81 Sec. 9-102
[h]
Ord. No. 81-3, 4     02-10-81 Sec. 9-103
Ord. No. 81-3, 5     02-10-81 Sec. 9-104
Ord. No. 81-3, 6     02-10-81 Sec. 9-105
Ord. No. 81-3, 7     02-10-81 Sec. 9-106
Ord. No. 81-3, 8     02-10-81 Sec. 9-107
Ord. No. 81-3, 9     02-10-81 Sec. 9-108
Ord. No. 81-3, 10    02-10-81 Sec. 9-109
Ord. No. 81-3, 11    02-10-81 Sec. 9-110
Ord. No. 81-3, 12    02-10-81 Sec. 9-111
Ord. No. 81-3, 13    02-10-81 Sec. 9-112
Ord. No. 81-3, 14    02-10-81 Sec. 9-113
Ord. No. 81-3, 15    02-10-81 Sec. 9-114
Ord. No. 81-3, 16    02-10-81 Sec. 9-115
Ord. No. 81-3, 17    02-10-81 Sec. 9-116
Ord. No. 81-3, 18    02-10-81 Sec. 9-117
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-20
I, 1
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-21
II, 1
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-22
II, 2
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-23
II, 3
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-26
III, 1
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-29
IV, 1(a)
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-30
IV, 1[b]
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-33
V,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-34
V,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-35
V,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-36
V,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-37
V,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-38
V,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-41
VI,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-42
VI,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-43
VI,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-44
VI,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-45
VI,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-46
VI,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-47
VI,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-51
VII, 1
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-52
VII, 2
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-53
VII, 3
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-54
VII, 4
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-55
VII, 5
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-56
VII, 6
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-57
VII, 7
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-58
VII, 8
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-59
VII, 2
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-60
VII, 10
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-61
VII, 11
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-62
VII, 12
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-65
VIII, 1
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-68
IX,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-69
IX,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-70
IX,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-73
X,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-74
X,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-75
X,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-78
XI,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-79
XI,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-80
XI,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-81
XI,
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-89
VII, 1
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-90
XIII, 2
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-93
XIV, 1
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-94
XIV, 2
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-97
XV, 1
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-98
XV, 2
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-99
XV, 3
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-100
XV, 4
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-101
XV, 5
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-115
XVI, 1
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-120
XVII, 1
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-121
XVII, 2
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-122
XVII, 3
Ord. No. 81-8, Art.  04-01-81 Sec. 8-123
XVII, 4
Ord. No. 81-8,       04-01-81 Sec. 8-130
Schedule
Ord. No. 81-8,       04-01-81 Sec. 8-131
Schedule
Ord. No. 81-8,       04-01-81 Sec. 8-132
Schedule
Ord. No. 81-8,       04-01-81 Sec. 8-133
Schedule
Ord. No. 81-8,       04-01-81 Sec. 8-134
Schedule 5
Ord. No. 81-8,       04-01-81 Sec. 8-135
Schedule 6
Ord. No. 81-8,       04-01-81 Sec. 8-136
Schedule 7
Ord. No. 81-8,       04-01-81 Sec. 8-137
Schedule 9
Ord. No. 81-8,       04-01-81 Sec. 8-141
Schedule
Ord. No. 81-30, 1-4  07-14-81 Sec. 9-72
Ord. No. 81-32, 2    08-11-81 Sec. 4-10
Ord. No. 80-68, 2    12-09-81 Sec. 2-188
Ord. No. 82-6        03-09-82 Sec. 4-70
Ord. No. 82-6        03-09-82 Sec. 4-71
Ord. No. 82-6        03-09-82 Sec. 4-72
Ord. No. 82-10       04-13-82 Sec. 2-210
Ord. No. 82-41       11-09-82 Sec. 2-8
Ord. No. 83-10       03-08-83 Sec. 8-165
Ord. No. 83-10       03-08-83 Sec. 8-166
Ord. No. 83-10       03-08-83 Sec. 8-167
Ord. No. 83-10       03-08-83 Sec. 8-168
Ord. No. 83-11       03-08-83 Sec. 5-18
Ord. No. 83-11, Art. 03-08-83 Sec. 5-18
1
Ord. No. 83-11, Art. 03-08-83 Sec. 5-30
III, 1
Ord. No. 83-11, Art. 03-08-83 Sec. 5-33
III, 3
Ord. No. 83-16,      04-12-83 Sec. 2-42
Preamble                      
Ord. No. 83-16, 1    04-12-83 Sec. 2-43
Ord. No. 83-16       04-12-83 Sec. 5-8
Ord. No. 83-33, 1    08-09-83 Sec. 9-180
Ord. No. 83-33, 2    08-09-83 Sec. 9-181
Ord. No. 83-33, 3    08-09-83 Sec. 9-182
Ord. No. 83-33, 4    08-09-83 Sec. 9-183
Ord. No. 83-33, 5    08-09-83 Sec. 9-184
Ord. No. 83-33, 6    08-09-83 Sec. 9-185
Ord. No. 83-33, 7    08-09-83 Sec. 9-186
Ord. No. 83-33, 8    08-09-83 Sec. 9-187
Ord. No. 83-33, 9    08-09-83 Sec. 9-188
Ord. No. 83-33, 10   08-09-83 Sec. 9-189
Ord. No. 83-33, 11   08-09-83 Sec. 9-190
Ord. No. 83-33, 12   08-09-83 Sec. 9-191
Ord. No. 83-50       12-13-83 Sec. 2-168
Ord. No. 84-11, 2[b] 03-13-84 Sec. 9-101
Ord. No. 84-11, 3[e] 03-13-84 Sec. 9-102
Ord. No. 84-18       05-10-84 Sec. 4-15
Ord. No. 84-21, 1    05-10-84 Sec. 9-25
Ord. No. 84-21, 2    05-10-84 Sec. 9-26
Ord. No. 84-21, 4    05-10-84 Sec. 9-29
Ord. No. 84-21, 5    05-10-84 Sec. 9-30
Ord. No. 84-21, 6    05-10-84 Sec. 9-31
Ord. No. 84-21, 7    05-10-84 Sec. 9-32
Ord. No. 84-21, 8    05-10-84 Sec. 9-33
Ord. No. 84-25, 5    06-12-84 Sec. 9-72
Ord. No. 84-29, 7    07-10-84 Sec. 4-17
Ord. No. 84-29, 2    07-10-84 Sec. 3-31
Ord. No. 84-29, 7    07-10-84 Sec. 3-36, Sec. 4-17
Ord. No. 84-39       09-11-84 Sec. 2-7
Ord. No. 84-44, 1    10-09-84 Sec. 6-134
(b)
Ord. No. 84-44, 7    10-09-84 Sec. 6-140
Ord. No. 85-4, 1     02-12-85 Sec. 6-34
Ord. No. 85-4, 2     02-12-85 Sec. 6-35
Ord. No. 85-4, 3     02-12-85 Sec. 6-36
Ord. No. 85-4, 4     02-12-85 Sec. 6-37
Ord. No. 85-4, 5     02-12-85 Sec. 6-38
Ord. No. 85-4, 6     02-12-85 Sec. 6-39
Ord. No. 85-4, 7     02-12-85 Sec. 6-40
Ord. No. 85-4, 8     02-12-85 Sec. 6-41
Ord. No. 85-4, 9     02-12-85 Sec. 6-42
Ord. No. 85-4, 10    02-12-85 Sec. 6-43
Ord. No. 85-4, 11    02-12-85 Sec. 6-44
Ord. No. 85-4, 12    02-12-85 Sec. 6-45
Ord. No. 85-4, 13    02-12-85 Sec. 6-46
Ord. No. 85-4, 14    02-12-85 Sec. 6-47
Ord. No. 85-49       01-14-86 Sec. 4-73
Ord. No. 85-49       01-14-86 Sec. 4-74
Ord. No. 85-49       01-14-86 Sec. 4-75
Ord. No. 85-49       01-14-86 Sec. 4-76
Ord. No. 86-2, 3     02-11-86 Sec. 9-127
Ord. No. 86-24       07-08-86 Sec. 4-15
Ord. No. 86-29, 1    08-12-86 Sec. 2-186(a)
Ord. No. 86-29, 2    08-12-86 Sec. 2-186(b)
Ord. No. 86-29, 3    08-12-86 Sec. 2-186(c)
Ord. No. 86-29, 4    08-12-86 Sec. 2-186(d)
Ord. No. 86-50, 1    11-11-86 Sec. 2-119
Ord. No. 86-50, 2    11-11-86 Sec. 2-119
Ord. No. 86-50, 3    11-11-86 Sec. 2-119
Ord. No. 86-50, 7    11-11-86 Sec. 2-119
Ord. No. 87-2        01-13-87 Sec. 4-111
Ord. No. 87-4        02-10-87 Sec. 5-31
Ord. No. 87-15, 3    06-09-87 Sec. 2-187
Ord. No. 87-15, 4    06-09-87 Sec. 2-187
Ord. No. 87-14       06-09-87 Sec. 8-150
Ord. No. 87-14       06-09-87 Sec. 8-151
Ord. No. 87-14       06-09-87 Sec. 8-152
Ord. No. 87-14       06-09-87 Sec. 8-153
Ord. No. 87-22       07-14-87 Sec. 9-128
Ord. No. 87-26       08-11-87 Sec. 2-185
Ord. No. 87-32       08-09-87 Sec. 2-6
Ord. No. 87-34, 1[d] 06-14-88 Sec. 9-59
Ord. No. 88-1, 9[B]  02-02-88 Sec. 7-61
Ord. No. 88-1, 9[C]  02-02-88 Sec. 7-62
Ord. No. 88-1, 9[D]  02-02-88 Sec. 7-63
Ord. No. 88-1, 9[E]  02-02-88 Sec. 7-64
Ord. No. 88-1, 9 [F] 02-02-88 Sec. 7-65
[1]
Ord. No. 88-1, 9[F]  02-02-88 Sec. 7-65
[3]-[5]
Ord. No. 88-1, 9 [F] 02-02-88 Sec. 7-65
[7]
Ord. No. 88-1, 9 [G] 02-02-88 Sec. 7-66
Ord. No. 88-1, 9 [I] 02-02-88 Sec. 7-68
Ord. No. 88-1, 9 [J] 02-02-88 Sec. 7-69
Ord. No. 88-1, 10    02-02-88 Sec. 7-75
Ord. No. 88-1, 12    02-02-88 Sec. 7-77
Ord. No. 88-1, 13    02-02-88 Sec. 7-78
Ord. No. 88-1, 14    02-02-88 Sec. 7-79
Ord. No. 88-1, 15    02-02-88 Sec. 7-80
Ord. No. 88-1, 16    02-02-88 Sec. 7-81
Ord. No. 88-1, 17    02-02-88 Sec. 7-82
Ord. No. 88-1, 18    02-02-88 Sec. 7-83
Ord. No. 88-1, 19    02-02-88 Sec. 7-84
Ord. No. 88-1, 20    02-02-88 Sec. 7-85
Ord. No. 88-6, 2     02-09-88 Sec. 6-161
Ord. No. 88-6, 3     02-09-88 Sec. 6-162
Ord. No. 88-6, 4     02-09-88 Sec. 6-163
Ord. No. 88-6, 5     02-09-88 Sec. 6-164
Ord. No. 88-11, 9    03-08-88 Sec. 7-60
[A]
Ord. No. 88-11, 1    02-02-88 Sec. 7-50
Ord. No. 88-11, 2    02-02-88 Sec. 7-51
Ord. No. 88-11, 3    02-02-88 Sec. 7-52
Ord. No. 88-11, 4    02-08-88 Sec. 7-53
Ord. No. 88-11, 5    02-02-88 Sec. 7-54
Ord. No. 88-11, 6    02-02-88 Sec. 7-55
Ord. No. 88-11, 8    02-02-88 Sec. 7-57
Ord. No. 88-11, 9[B] 02-02-88 Sec. 7-61
Ord. No. 88-11, 9[C] 02-02-88 Sec. 7-62
Ord. No. 88-11, 9[D] 02-02-88 Sec. 7-63
Ord. No. 88-11, 9[E] 02-08-88 Sec. 7-64
Ord. No. 88-11, 9    02-08-88 Sec. 4-42
[E]
Ord. No. 88-13, 1    03-08-88 Sec. 8-156
Ord. No. 88-13, 2    03-08-88 Sec. 8-157
Ord. No. 88-13, 3    03-08-88 Sec. 8-158
Ord. No. 88-13, 4    03-08-88 Sec. 8-159
Ord. No. 88-16, 1    03-08-88 Sec. 9-201
Ord. No. 88-20, 1    05-10-88 Sec. 10-120
Ord. No. 88-29, 9    05-01-88 Sec. 7-65
[F][2]
Ord. No. 88-29, 9[A] 05-10-88 Sec. 7-60
Ord. No. 88-29, 9[E] 05-10-88 Sec. 7-64
Ord. No. 88-29, 9    05-10-88 Sec. 7-65
[F][8]
Ord. No. 88-40, Art. 08-16-88 Sec. 8-85
XII, 2
Ord. No. 88-40, Art. 08-16-88 Sec. 8-86
XII, 3
Ord. No. 88-40, Art. 08-16-88 Sec. 8-104
XV, 7
Ord. No. 88-42       09-13-88 Sec. 8-84
Ord. No. 89-7        02-14-89 Sec. 5-18
Ord. No. 89-8        02-14-89 Sec. 2-104
Ord. No. 89-8, 1     02-14-89 Sec. 2-105
Ord. No. 89-8, 2     02-14-89 Sec. 2-106
Ord. No. 89-15       05-09-89 Sec. 9-66
Ord. No. 89-19       05-09-89 Sec. 9-70
Ord. No. 89-19       05-09-89 Sec. 9-71
Ord. No. 89-20, 1    06-13-89 Sec. 7-90
Ord. No. 89-20, 2    06-13-89 Sec. 7-91
Ord. No. 89-20, 3    06-13-89 Sec. 7-92
Ord. No. 89-20, 4    06-13-89 Sec. 7-93
Ord. No. 89-24       07-11-89 Sec. 6-139
Ord. No. 89-28       07-11-89 Sec. 8-174
Ord. No. 89-28       07-11-89 Sec. 8-175
Ord. No. 89-38, 1    10-10-89 Sec. 6-150 et seq.
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 2-220
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 2-221
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 2-222
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 2-223
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 4-36
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 5-36
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 6-60
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 6-104
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 6-113
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 6-119
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 6-125
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 6-136
Ord. No. 89-38       10-10-89 Sec. 6-139
Ord. No. 89-38, 1    10-10-89 Sec. 6-150
Ord. No. 89-38, 1    10-10-89 Sec. 6-151
Ord. No. 89-42, 1    11-16-89 Sec. 3-1
Ord. No. 89-42, 1    11-16-89 Sec. 3-2
Ord. No. 89-45       12-12-89 Sec. 9-160
Ord. No. 89-46       12-12-89 Sec. 9-11
Ord. No. 89-48, 1    12-12-89 Sec. 9-40
Ord. No. 89-48, 2    12-12-89 Sec. 9-41
Ord. No. 89-48, 3    12-12-89 Sec. 9-42
Ord. No. 89-48, 4    12-12-89 Sec. 9-43
Ord. No. 89-48, 5    12-12-89 Sec. 9-44
Ord. No. 89-48, 6    12-12-89 Sec. 9-45
Ord. No. 89-48, 7    12-12-89 Sec. 9-46
Ord. No. 89-48, 8    12-12-89 Sec. 9-47
Ord. No. 89-48, 9    12-12-89 Sec. 9-48
Ord. No. 90-6        03-13-90 Sec. 9-27
Ord. No. 90-6        03-13-90 Sec. 9-28
Ord. No. 90-13, 9    03-13-90 Sec. 7-65
[F][2]
Ord. No. 90-13, 9    03-13-90 Sec. 7-67
[H]
Ord. No. 90-21       06-12-90 Sec. 9-159
Ord. No. 90-26, 6    08-14-90 Sec. 9-130
Ord. No. 90-32, 1    09-11-90 Sec. 4-24
Ord. No. 90-32, 1    09-11-90 Sec. 4-25
Ord. No. 90-35, 7    11-13-90 Sec. 7-56
Ord. No. 91-5, 2     02-12-91 Sec. 2-68
Ord. No. 91-5, 3     02-12-91 Sec. 2-69
Ord. No. 91-5, 4     02-12-91 Sec. 2-70
Ord. No. 91-5, 5     02-12-91 Sec. 2-71
Ord. No. 91-7, 1     03-12-91 Sec. 9-90
Ord. No. 91-7, 2     03-12-91 Sec. 9-91
Ord. No. 91-7, 3     03-12-91 Sec. 9-92
Ord. No. 91-7, 4     03-12-91 Sec. 9-93
Ord. No. 91-7, 5     03-12-91 Sec. 9-94
Ord. No. 91-7, 6     03-12-91 Sec. 9-95
Ord. No. 91-17, 2    07-09-91 Sec. 2-75
Ord. No. 91-17, 2    07-09-91 Sec. 2-76
Ord. No. 91-17, 4    07-09-91 Sec. 2-77
Ord. No. 91-17, 1    07-09-91 Sec. 9-12
Ord. No. 91-17, 3    07-09-91 Sec. 9-14
Ord. No. 91-17, 5    07-09-91 Sec. 9-15
Ord. No. 91-17, 6    07-09-91 Sec. 9-16
Ord. No. 91-17, 7    07-09-91 Sec. 9-17
Ord. No. 91-25, 1    10-08-91 Sec. 8-1
Ord. No. 91-25, 2    10-08-91 Sec. 8-2
Ord. No. 91-25, 3    10-08-91 Sec. 8-3
Ord. No. 91-25, 4    10-08-91 Sec. 8-4
Ord. No. 91-25, 6    10-08-91 Sec. 8-6
Ord. No. 91-26, 1    10-08-91 Sec. 3-42
Ord. No. 91-26, 2    10-08-91 Sec. 3-43
Ord. No. 91-26, 3    10-08-91 Sec. 3-44
Ord. No. 91-26, 4    10-08-91 Sec. 3-45
Ord. No. 91-26, 4    10-08-91 Sec. 2-193
Ord. No. 91-26, 4    10-08-91 Sec. 2-194
Ord. No. 91-26, 4    10-08-91 Sec. 2-195
Ord. No. 91-34, 1 3  12-10-91 Sec. 2-180
Ord. No. 91-39, 2    01-01-92 Sec. 2-113
Ord. No. 92-8, 1     02-10-92 Sec. 2-114
Ord. No. 92-8, 2     02-10-92 Sec. 2-62
Ord. No. 92-8, 3     02-10-92 Sec. 2-63
Ord. No. 92-4, 1     02-10-92 Sec. 7-6
Ord. No. 92-4, 2     02-10-92 Sec. 7-7
Ord. No. 92-4, 3     02-10-92 Sec. 7-8
Ord. No. 92-4, 4     02-10-92 Sec. 7-9
Ord. No. 92-4, 5     02-10-92 Sec. 7-10
Ord. No. 92-4, 6     02-10-92 Sec. 7-11
Ord. No. 92-4, 7     02-10-92 Sec. 7-12
Ord. No. 92-4, 8     02-10-92 Sec. 7-13
Ord. No. 92-4, 9     02-10-92 Sec. 7-14
Ord. No. 92-4, 10    02-10-92 Sec. 7-15
Ord. No. 92-4, 11    02-10-92 Sec. 7-16
Ord. No. 92-4, 12    02-10-92 Sec. 7-17
Ord. No. 92-4, 13    02-10-92 Sec. 7-18
Ord. No. 92-4, 14    02-10-92 Sec. 7-19
Ord. No. 92-4, 15    02-10-92 Sec. 7-20
Ord. No. 92-4, 16    02-10-92 Sec. 7-21
Ord. No. 92-4, 17    02-10-92 Sec. 7-22
Ord. No. 92-4, 18    02-10-92 Sec. 7-23
Ord. No. 92-4, 19    02-10-92 Sec. 7-24
Ord. No. 92-4, 20    02-10-92 Sec. 7-25
Ord. No. 92-4, 21    02-10-92 Sec. 7-26
Ord. No. 92-4, 23    02-10-92 Sec. 7-28
Ord. No. 92-4, 24    02-10-92 Sec. 7-29
Ord. No. 92-4, 24    02-10-92 Sec. 7-30
Ord. No. 92-4, 26    02-10-92 Sec. 7-31
Ord. No. 92-4, 27    02-10-92 Sec. 7-32
Ord. No. 92-4, 28    02-10-92 Sec. 7-33
Ord. No. 92-4, 29    02-10-92 Sec. 7-34
Ord. No. 92-4, 30    02-10-92 Sec. 7-35
Ord. No. 92-4, 31    02-10-92 Sec. 7-36
Ord. No. 92-4, 32    02-10-92 Sec. 7-37
Ord. No. 92-4, 33    02-10-92 Sec. 7-38
Ord. No. 92-4, 34    02-10-92 Sec. 7-39
Ord. No. 92-4, 35    02-10-92 Sec. 7-40
Ord. No. 92-4, 36    02-10-92 Sec. 7-41
Ord. No. 92-4, 37    02-10-92 Sec. 7-42
Ord. No. 92-4, 38    02-10-92 Sec. 7-43
Ord. No. 92-8, 1     02-10-92 Sec. 2-61
Ord. No. 92-8, 2     02-10-92 Sec. 2-62
Ord. No. 92-8, 3     02-10-92 Sec. 2-63
Ord. No. 92-9, 1     03-10-92 Sec. 6-58
Ord. No. 92-9, 2     03-10-92 Sec. 6-59
Ord. No. 92-9, 3     03-10-92 Sec. 6-60
Ord. No. 92-9, 4 [A] 03-10-92 Sec. 6-63
Ord. No. 92-9, 4 [B] 03-10-92 Sec. 6-64
Ord. No. 92-9, 4 [C] 03-10-92 Sec. 6-65
Ord. No. 92-9, 4 [D] 03-10-92 Sec. 6-66
Ord. No. 92-9, 4 [E] 03-10-92 Sec. 6-67
Ord. No. 92-9, 5 (F] 03-10-92 Sec. 6-68
Ord. No. 92-9, 4 [H] 03-10-92 Sec. 6-70
Ord. No. 92-9, 5     03-10-92 Sec. 6-71
Ord. No. 92-17, 9    05-12-92 Sec. 7-70
[K]
Ord. No. 92-20, 1    07-14-92 Sec. 6-15
Ord. No. 92-20, 2    07-14-92 Sec. 6-16
Ord. No. 92-20, 3    07-14-92 Sec. 6-17
Ord. No. 92-20, 4    07-14-92 Sec. 6-18
Ord. No. 92-20, 5    07-14-92 Sec. 6-19
Ord. No. 92-20, 6    07-14-92 Sec. 6-17
Ord. No. 92-20, 7    07-14-92 Sec. 6-21
Ord. No. 92-21, 5    07-14-92 Sec. 6-29
Ord. No. 92-21, 6    07-14-92 Sec. 6-30
Ord. No. 92-26, 1    09-08-92 Sec. 7-1
Ord. No. 92-26, 2    09-08-92 Sec. 7-2
Ord. No. 92-26, 3    09-08-92 Sec. 7-3
Ord. No. 92-27, 9    09-08-92 Sec. 9-145
Ord. No. 92-27, 10   09-08-92 Sec. 9-146
Ord. No. 92-27, 11   09-08-92 Sec. 9-147
Ord. No. 92-27, 12   09-08-92 Sec. 9-148
Ord. No. 92-27, 13   09-08-92 Sec. 9-149
Ord. No. 92-27, 14   09-08-92 Sec. 9-150
Ord. No. 92-28, 1    10-13-92 Sec. 4-49
Ord. No. 92-28, 2    10-13-92 Sec. 4-50
Ord. No. 92-28, 3    10-13-92 Sec. 4-51
Ord. No. 92-28, 4    10-13-92 Sec. 4-52
Ord. No. 92-28, 5    10-13-92 Sec. 4-53
Ord. No. 92-28, 6    10-13-92 Sec. 4-54
Ord. No. 92-28, 7    10-13-92 Sec. 4-55
Ord. No. 92-28, 8    10-13-92 Sec. 4-56
Ord. No. 92-28, 9    10-13-92 Sec. 4-57
Ord. No. 92-28, 10   10-13-92 Sec. 4-58
Ord. No. 92-28, 11   10-13-92 Sec. 4-59
Ord. No. 92-28, 12   10-13-92 Sec. 4-60
Ord. No. 92-28, 13   10-13-92 Sec. 4-61
Ord. No. 92-28, 14   10-13-92 Sec. 4-62
Ord. No. 92-28, 15   10-13-92 Sec. 4-63
Ord. No. 92-36 3     12-22-92 Sec. 3-3
Ord. No. 92-36       12-12-92 Sec. 3-3
Ord. No. 93-3        02-08-93 Sec. 7-99
Ord. No. 93-4, 1     03-09-93 Sec. 2-184(a)
Ord. No. 93-4, 2     03-09-93 Sec. 2-184(b)
Ord. No. 93-4, 3     03-09-93 Sec. 2-184(c)
Ord. No. 93-4, 4     03-09-93 Sec. 2-184(d)
Ord. No. 93-4, 5     03-09-93 Sec. 2-184(e)
Ord. No. 93-4, 6     03-09-93 Sec. 2-184(f)
Ord. No. 93-7        04-13-93 Sec. 10-119
Ord. No. 93-10       05-11-93 Sec. 7-71
Ord. No. 93-13       05-11-93 Sec. 2-196
Ord. No. 93-18       10-12-93 Sec. 4-18
Ord. No. 93-19       12-08-93 Sec. 2-168
Ord. No. 93-22       12-08-93 Sec. 2-187
Ord. No. 94-1        01-11-94 Sec. 3-3
Ord. No. 94-3        03-08-94 Sec. 2-185
Ord. No. 94-4        05-10-94 Sec. 3-50
Ord. No. 94-9        08-09-94 Sec. 10-36
Ord. No. 94-9, I, A  08-09-94 Sec. 10-37
Ord. No. 94-9, I, B  08-09-94 Sec. 10-38
Ord. No. 94-9, I, C  08-09-94 Sec. 10-39
Ord. No. 94-9, II    08-09-94 Sec. 10-40
Ord. No. 94-9, III,  08-09-94 Sec. 10-45
A
Ord. No. 94-9, III,  08-09-94 Sec. 10-46
B
Ord. No. 94-9, III,  08-09-94 Sec. 10-47
C
Ord. No. 94-9, III,  08-09-94 Sec. 10-48
D
Ord. No. 94-9, IV    08-09-94 Sec. 10-55
Ord. No. 94-9, V, A  08-09-94 Sec. 10-60
Ord. No. 94-9, V, B  08-09-94 Sec. 10-61
Ord. No. 94-9, VII,  08-09-94 Sec. 10-80
B
Ord. No. 94-9, VII,  08-09-94 Sec. 10-81
C
Ord. No. 94-9, VII,  08-09-94 Sec. 10-82
D
Ord. No. 94-9, VII,  08-09-94 Sec. 10-83
E
Ord. No. 94-9, VIII, 08-09-94 Sec. 10-85
A
Ord. No. 94-9, VIII, 08-09-94 Sec. 10-86
B
Ord. No. 94-9, VIII, 08-09-94 Sec. 10-87
C
Ord. No. 94-9, VIII, 08-09-94 Sec. 10-88
D
Ord. No. 94-9, VIII, 08-09-94 Sec. 10-89
E
Ord. No. 94-9, IX, A 08-09-94 Sec. 10-94
Ord. No. 94-9, IX, B 08-09-94 Sec. 10-95
Ord. No. 94-9, IX, D 08-09-94 Sec. 10-97
Ord. No. 94-9, IX, E 08-09-94 Sec. 10-98
Ord. No. 94-9, IX, F 08-09-94 Sec. 10-99
Ord. No. 94-9, IX, G 08-09-94 Sec. 10-100
Ord. No. 94-9, IX, H 08-09-94 Sec. 10-101
Ord. No. 94-9, IX, I 08-09-94 Sec. 10-102
Ord. No. 94-14, 1    09-13-94 Sec. 9-205
Ord. No. 94-14, 2    09-13-94 Sec. 9-206
Ord. No. 94-14, 3    09-13-94 Sec. 9-207
Ord. No. 94-15, 1    09-13-95 Sec. 9-201
Ord. No. 94-17       12-13-94 Sec. 9-127
Ord. No. 94-18, 1    10-17-94 Sec. 9-55
Ord. No. 94-18, 1    10-17-94 Sec. 9-56
Ord. No. 94-18, 1    10-17-94 Sec. 9-57
Ord. No. 94-18, 1    10-17-94 Sec. 9-58
Ord. No. 94-18, 1    10-17-94 Sec. 9-60
Ord. No. 94-18, 1    10-17-94 Sec. 9-61
Ord. No. 94-18, 1    10-17-94 Sec. 9-62
Ord. No. 94-18, 1    10-17-94 Sec. 9-63
Ord. No. 94-18, 1    10-17-94 Sec. 9-64
Ord. No. 94-18, 1    10-17-94 Sec. 9-65
Ord. No. 94-19       10-17-94 Sec. 10-131
Ord. No. 94-25       12-13-94 Sec. 3-50
Ord. No. 95-4        02-14-95 Sec. 4-19
Ord. No. 95-5        04-11-95 Adopting Ordinance
Ord. No. 95-5 X      04-11-95 Sec. 7-60
Ord. No. 95-11       04-11-95 Sec. 9-14
Ord. No. 95-11       04-11-95 Sec. 9-16
Ord. No. 95-12       04-11-95 Sec. 6-29
Ord. No. 95-18       06-13-95 Sec. 3-12
Ord. No. 95-20 2     07-11-95 Sec. 4-154
Ord. No. 95-21       08-08-95 Sec. 8-1
Ord. No. 95-23       09-12-95 Sec. 6-128
Ord. No. 95-23       09-12-95 Sec. 6-129
Ord. No. 95-23       09-12-95 Sec. 6-130
Ord. No. 95-26       11-14-95 Sec. 4-15
Ord. No. 95-27       11-14-95 Sec. 2-6
Ord. No. 95-29       11-14-95 Sec. 2-196
Ord. No. 95-31       11-14-95 Adopting Ordinance
Ord. No. 95-32 1     12-12-95 Sec. 6-75
Ord. No. 95-32 2     12-12-95 Sec. 6-76
Ord. No. 95-32 3     12-12-95 Sec. 6-77
Ord. No. 95-32 4     12-12-95 Sec. 6-78
Ord. No. 95-32 5     12-12-95 Sec. 6-79
Ord. No. 95-32 6     12-12-95 Sec. 6-80
Ord. No. 95-32 7     12-12-95 Sec. 6-81
Ord. No. 95-32 8     12-12-95 Sec. 6-82
Ord. No. 95-32 9     12-12-95 Sec. 6-83
Ord. No. 95-32 10    12-12-95 Sec. 6-84
Ord. No. 95-32 11    12-12-95 Sec. 6-85
Ord. No. 95-32 12    12-12-95 Sec. 6-86
Ord. No. 95-32 13    12-12-95 Sec. 6-87
Ord. No. 95-32 14    12-12-95 Sec. 6-88
Ord. No. 95-32 15    12-12-95 Sec. 6-89
Ord. No. 95-33       12-12-95 Sec. 8-104
Ord. No. 95-34       12-12-95 Sec. 6-137
Ord. No. 96-8        6-11-96  Adopting Ordinance
Ord. No. 96-14       8-13-96  Sec. 5-30
Ord. No. 96-15       8-13-96  Sec. 2-198
Ord. No. 96-18       9-10-96  Sec. 2-198
Ord. No. 96-29       12-10-96 Sec. 2-187, 2-192
Ord. No. 96-30       12-10-96 Sec. 9-56
Ord. No. 97-5        3-11-97  9-100 - 9-112
Ord. No. 97-6        - -      9-125 - 9-140
Ord. No. 97-7        3-11-97  8-120
Ord. No. 97-12       6-10-97  9-201
Ord. No. 97-15       8-12-97  8-104, 8-106, 8-142
Ord. No. 97-16       9-9-97   10-167
Ord. No. 97-17       7-8-97   9-56
Ord. No. 97-18       7-8-97   2-199, 2-200
Ord. No. 97-20       9-9-97   9-56
Ord. No. 97-22       9-9-97   10-22
Ord. No. 97-24       10-1-97  10-20, 10-22
Ord. No. 98-02       1-13-98  5-30
Ord. No. 98-04       2-10-98  6-75 - 6-89
Ord. No. 98-06       7-14-98  9-216 - 9-229
Ord. No. 98-11       7-14-98  4-42, 7-60, 7-64, 7-65, 7-66, 7-68, 7-71
Ord. No. 98-12       7-14-98  5-30
Ord. No. 98-16       9-8-98   5-30
Ord. No. 99-02       1-19-99  10-78, 10-79, 10-81, 10-82
Ord. No. 99-04       3-9-99   9-216 - 9-229
Ord. No. 99-13       7-13-99  2-220, 2-221
Ord. No. 99-15       7-13-99  2-43
Ord. No. 99-16       7-13-99  2-201
Ord. No. 99-18       7-13-99  6-129
Ord. No. 99-25       12-28-99 2-187
Ord. No. 2000-02     2-15-00  2-200, 2-202
Ord. No. 2000-06     5-16-00  2-178
Ord. No. 2000-08     5-16-00  6-128 - 6-130
Ord. No. 2000-09     5-16-00  6-17 - 6-19
Ord. No. 2000-13     6-20-00  8-161
Ord. No. 2000-14     6-20-00  8-3
Ord. No. 2000-15     6-20-00  8-191, 8-192
Ord. No. 2000-17     6-20-00  6-170, 6-171
Ord. No. 2000-12     7-18-00  6-136
Ord. No. 2000-16     7-18-00  5-37
Ord. No. 2000-24     9-15-00  6-134
Ord. No. 2000-22     11-21-00 6-59
Ord. No. 2000-38     12-19-00 9-201
Ord. No. 2000-40     12-19-00 2-185
                              10-39, 10-40, 10-45, 10-46, 10-48, 10-55, 10-61, 10-62, 10-63, 10-66, 10-67,
Ord. No. 2000-41     12-19-00 10-68, 10-70, 10-72, 10-73, 10-74, 10-78, 10-79, 10-81, 10-82, 10-83, 10-86,
                              10-87, 10-88, 10-89, 10-96, 10-102
Ord. No. 2001-03     2-20-01  10-20, 10-22
Ord. No. 2001-06     3-20-01  9-208
Ord. No. 2001-11     5-15-01  2-169
Ord. No. 2001-13     8-21-01  9-126, 9-127, 9-132
Ord. No. 2001-14     8-21-01  2-107
Ord. No. 2001-17     8-21-01  8-3
Ord. No. 2001-18     8-21-01  2-221, 8-43
Ord. No. 2001-16     9-18-01  3-3
Ord. No. 2001-21     9-18-01  2-178
Ord. No. 2001-24     10-16-01 2-203
Ord. No. 2001-25     10-16-01 2-204
Ord. No. 2001-26     10-16-01 6-38, 6-42, 6-47
Ord. No. 2001-27     10-16-01 3-3
Ord. No. 2002-02     1-30-02  6-128
Ord. No. 2002-04     2-19-02  10-20, 10-21, 10-23, 10-25, 10-26, 10-30
Ord. No. 2002-06     2-19-02  8-176, 8-183
Ord. No. 2002-07     3-19-02  8-41
Ord. No. 2002-09     4-16-02  6-75 - 6-90
Ord. No. 2002-11     4-16-02  7-75, 7-76, 7-80
Ord. No. 2002-12     4-16-02  5-30
Ord. No. 2002-17     7-16-02  9-85 - 9-85.8
Ord. No. 2002-18     7-16-02  10-23
Ord. No. 2002-20     10-15-02 9-85 - 9-85.8
Ord. No. 2002-23     9-10-02  4-141
Ord. No. 2002-24     10-15-02 10-20, 10-23 - 10-25
Ord. No. 2002-26     10-15-02 2-123
Ord. No. 2002-27     10-15-02 3-3
Ord. No. 2002-34     11-19-02 10-7, 10-13
Ord. No. 2002-35     11-19-02 9-208
Ord. No. 2002-40     12-17-02 5-30
Ord. No. 2003-01     1-21-03  6-60
Ord. No. 2003-07     3-18-03  10-25
Ord. No. 2003-11     5-20-03  6-59
Ord. No. 2003-13     6-17-03  3-36, 4-17
Ord. No. 2003-16     9-16-03  2-230
Ord. No. 2003-21     10-21-03 10-88
Ord. No. 2003-22     10-21-03 10-74
Ord. No. 2003-23     10-21-03 7-71
Ord. No. 2003-24     10-21-03 10-48, 10-89
Ord. No. 2003-27     11-16-03 2-231
Ord. No. 2003-28     11-18-03 9-61
Ord. No. 2003-29     11-18-03 8-215
Ord. No. 2003-32     11-18-03 6-116
Ord. No. 2004-03     1-20-04  6-77
Ord. No. 2004-10     4-13-04  2-205
Ord. No. 2004-16     5-16-04  6-128
Ord. No. 2004-13     9-15-04  10-115.1 - 10.115.5
Ord. No. 2004-14     5-19-04  6-170, 6-171
Ord. No. 2004-20     9-15-04  7-40, 7-42
Ord. No. 2004-26     11-16-04 2-170
Ord. No. 2004-27     11-16-04 6-100
Ord. No. 2005-3      2-16-05  7-63
Ord. No. 2005-15     9-21-05  9-86
Ord. No. 2005-20     11-16-05 5-30
Ord. No. 2006-02     2-15-06  5-23, 5-24, 5-28
Ord. No. 2006-04     4-19-06  6-34, 6-35, 6-37 - 6-41, 6-43, 6-45
Ord. No. 2006-10     8-16-06  9-67, 9-141
Ord. No. 2006-14     9-20-06  6-42
Ord. No. 2006-19     10-18-06 10-78 - 10-83
Ord. No. 2006-26     12-20-06 8-68, 8-132, 8-136, 8-138
Ord. No. 2007-02     1-17-07  Repeal 2-122
Ord. No. 2007-03     2-21-07  9-208
Ord. No. 2007-04     3-21-07  6-180 - 6-206
Ord. No. 2007-05     2-21-07  7-92
Ord. No. 2007-08     5-16-07  6-138
Ord. No. 2007-09     5-16-07  4-16
Ord. No. 2007-12     6-20-07  8-132
Ord. No. 2007-15     8-15-07  6-95 - 6-109
Ord. No. 2007-17     9-19-07  9-201
Ord. No. 2007-25     12-19-07 10-45 - 10-48, 10-101
Ord. No. 2007-27     12-19-07 5-30
Ord. No. 2007-33     12-27-07 10-119 - 10-144, 10-146 - 10-189
Ord. No. 2008-02     4-16-08  6-75 - 6-92
Ord. No. 2008-03     3-19-08  7-54, 7-560, 7-64, 7-65, 7-68, 7-69, 7-71, 7-75, 7-80
Ord. No. 2008-09     8-20-08  8-107
Ord. No. 2008-12     9-17-08  9-26, 9-28
Ord. No. 2008-13     9-17-08  8-162
Ord. No. 2008-14     9-17-08  4-15
Ord. No. 2008-21     12-17-08 9-201
Ord. No. 2008-24     12-17-08 9-57
Ord. No. 2009-02     1-28-09  9-201
Ord. No. 2009-03     3-18-09  2-206
Ord. No. 2009-06     6-17-09  2-171
Ord. No. 2009-09     8-19-09  5-19
Ord. No. 2009-10     1-28-09  9-85.2
Ord. No. 2009-11     10-7-09  9-55, 9-56, 9-57, 9-58, 9-61, 9-62
Ord. No. 2009-15     11-4-09  9-126
Ord. No. 2009-17     11-18-09 10-167.1
Ord. No. 2009-18     11-18-09 10-120, 10-161.2, 10-162.1, 10-162.2
Ord. No. 2009-21     12-16-09 6-81
Ord. No. 2010-01     2-3-10   4-192
Ord. No. 2010-02     2-3-10   5-30
Ord. No. 2010-10     11-3-10  2-207
Ord. No. 2010-11     11-3-10  8-162
Ord. No. 2010-12     11-3-10  4-16
Ord. No. 2010-16     12-1-10  8-132
Ord. No. 2011-01     2-10-11  6-38, 6-39, 6-42 - 6-44, 6-47
Ord. No. 2011-04     5-19-11  8-132
Ord. No. 2011-07     9-8-11   2-208
Ord. No. 2011-15     11-10-11 6-136, 6-137, 6-141
Ord. No. 2012-01     2-9-12   6-58, 6-59
Ord. No. 2012-03     3-8-12   8-161
Ord. No. 2012-07     5-10-12  4-200, 4-201
Ord. No. 2012-10     5-10-12  7-64
Ord. No. 2012-12     8-13-12  7-70
Ord. No. 2012-11     9-13-12  3-3
Ord. No. 2013-01     3-14-13  6-59
Ord. No. 2013-02     3-14-13  5-30
Ord. No. 2013-05     7-8-13   4-64 - 4-73
Ord. No. 2013-06     9-12-13  9-35
Ord. No. 2013-12     11-14-13 9-30, 9-61
Ord. No. 2013-14     12-12-13 2-209
Ord. No. 2013-15     12-12-13 2-181
Ord. No. 2014-01     1-9-14   10-161.2
Ord. No. 2014-03     4-10-14  8-29, 8-30
Ord. No. 2014-15     11-13-14 7-60, 70-64, 7-65, 7-67
Ord. No. 2014-16     11-13-14 2-209.1
Ord. No. 2014-17     11-13-14 9-30
                              8-85, 8-94, 8-98, 8-100, 8-105, 8-130, 8-132, 8-135, 8-136, 8-136A, 8-137, 8-
Ord. No. 2015-01     3-12-15  138, 8-139, 8-139A, 8-139B, 8-140, 8-140A, 8-141, 8-142, 8-191, 8-192, 8-208,
                              8-215
Ord. No. 2015-02     2-12-15  9-201
Ord. No. 2015-03     2-26-15  9-201
Ord. No. 2015-12     6-15-15  10-131
Ord. No. 2015-22     11-12-15 10-1 - 10-3, 10-5 - 10-17, 10-22 - 10-25
Ord. No. 2016-02     3-10-16  10-119
Ord. No. 2016-07     5-12-16  2-233
Ord. No. 2016-09     5-12-16  2-6
Ord. No. 2016-11     5-12-16  2-209.2
Ord. No. 2016-16     6-23-16  2-250
Ord. No. 2016-18     6-23-16  2-232
Ord. No. 2016-19     7-14-16  9-30, 9-61
Ord. No. 2016-20     9-8-16   2-202
Ord. No. 2016-27     12-8-16  9-55 - 9-58
Ord. No. 2016-28     12-8-16  9-126
Ord. No. 2016-30     12-8-16  9-201, 9-203
Ord. No. 2017-02     2-1-17   9-56
Ord. No. 2017-06     7-13-17  8-132
Ord. No. 2017-07     7-13-17  8-136, 8-136A
Ord. No. 2017-09     10-12-17 8-132
Ord. No. 2017-16     12-14-17 2-209.3
Ord. No. 2017-17     12-14-17 2-209.4
Ord. No. 2017-18     12-14-17 2-209.5
Ord. No. 2018-2      5-24-18  10-162.6, 10-167.2
Ord. No. 2018-3      4-26-18  6-211 - 6-213
Ord. No. 2019-02     4-11-19  2-184
Ord. No. 2019-03     5-9-19   8-193
Ord. No. 2019-04     8-8-19   4-70
Ord. No. 2019-08     9-12-19  7-58
Ord. No. 2019-09     9-12-19  8-193
Ord. No. 2020-04     6-11-20  4-170 - 4-177
Ord. No. 2020-05     6-25-20  8-139
Ord. No. 2020-07     7-30-20  8-137, 8-138
Ord. No. 2020-08     8-13-20  3-7, 3-10, 3-12, 3-16, 3-17, 3-31, 3-36, 3-44
Ord. No. 2020-15     10-14-20 2-209.6
Ord. No. 2020-25     12-15-20 2-209.6
Ord. No. 2021-2      1-14-21  9-34
Ord. No. 2021-08     3-11-21  2-46
Ord. No. 2021-12     6-10-21  10-127
Ord. No. 2021-14     8-12-21  2-118
Ord. No. 2021-15     7-8-     9-68
                     21   
Ord. No. 2021-17     8-12-21  9-56
Ord. No. 2021-18     9-9-21   8-140, 8-140A
Ord. No. 2021-20     9-9-21   6-93
Ord. No. 2021-30     11-10-21 10-120, 10-130 - 10-132, 10-147
Ord. No. 2021-31     11-10-21 2-118
Ord. No. 2021-32     11-10-21 9-80 - 9-87.6
                              2-187, 2-220 - 2-223, 4-10 - 4-20, 4-24, 4-25, 4-29 - 4-36, 4-42 - 4-   44, 4-
Ord. No. 2022-02     1-13-22  49 - 4-63, 4-68 - 4-76, 4-84 - 4-97, 4-102 - 4-114, 4-119 - 4-122, 4-124, 4-
                              125, 4-134, 4-144, 4-145, 4-154, Repeals 6-152 - 6-154
Ord. No. 2022-04     2-10-22  9-56
Ord. No. 2022-05     4-14-22  2-118
Ord. No. 2022-06     3-10-22  2-122
Ord. No. 2022-07     3-10-22  2-209.8
Ord. No. 2022-09     4-14-22  2-126
Ord. No. 2022-10     4-14-22  2-127
Ord. No. 2022-12     7-20-22  6-211 - 6-214
Ord. No. 2022-13     8-17-22  5-30
Ord. No. 2022-14     8-17-22  9-55 - 9-58
Ord. No. 2022-15     8-17-22  3-18
Ord. No. 2022-16     8-17-22  3-37
Ord. No. 2022-17     9-21-22  9-55 - 9-58
Ord. No. 2022-28     11-16-22 8-136 - 8-138
Ord. No. 2022-30     11-16-22 9-201
Ord. No. 2022-32     11-16-22 10-1 - 10-27, Repeals 10-26 - 10-32
Ord. No. 2022-34     12-21-22 3-3
Ord. No. 2023-01     1-18-23  2-128
Ord. No. 2023-02     2-15-23  Repeals 2-120
Ord. No. 2023-03     2-15-23  Repeals 2-124
Ord. No. 2023-04     2-15-23  Repeals 2-121
Ord. No. 2023-05     2-15-23  Repeals 2-113
Ord. No. 2023-06     2-15-23  Repeals 2-125
Ord. No. 2023-08     2-15-23  2-90 - 2-99
Ord. No. 2023-19     7-19-23  5-30
Ord. No. 2023-26     9-20-23  10-130
Ord. No. 2024-07, § 8-15-24  7-200 - 7-211
1
Ord. No. 2024-17, § 11-21-24 6-50 -6-57, Repeals 6-50 - 6-55
1
Ord. No. 2025-02, § 2-20-25  4-21
1
                             
 
 
