CITY OF EAST CHICAGO, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains local legislation current through
Ord. 23-0037, passed 11-27-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF EAST CHICAGO, INDIANA
Anthony Copeland
Mayor
Lenny Franciski    (First District)
Monica G. Gonzalez (Second District)
Terence Hill       (Third District)
Stacy Winfield     (Fourth District)
Robert Garcia      (Fifth District)
Gilda Orange       (Sixth District)
Debra Bolaños     At-Large
Dwayne Rancifer    At-Large
Kenneth Monroe     At-Large
 
Richard Medina
City Clerk
Sonya A. Morris
City Court Judge
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
      
12.   COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.001   Title of code
   
10.002   Interpretation
   
10.003   Application to future ordinances
   
10.004   Construction of code
   
10.005   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.006   Severability
   
10.007   Reference to other sections
   
10.008   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.009   Errors and omissions
   
10.010   Reasonable time
   
10.011   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.012   Limitation periods
   
10.013   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.014   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.015   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.016   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.999   General penalty
§ 10.001 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “East
Chicago City Code,” for which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified
Ordinances,” or “Code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.002 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.003 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.004 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or subsection.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content.
      (2)   These descriptive headings are for organizational purposes only and
do not affect the meaning, application, or construction of the law they
precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.005 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of East Chicago, Indiana.
      CITY CLERK. The Clerk of the Common Council.
      COUNCIL. The Common Council.
      COUNTY. Lake County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.006 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   (1)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code
containing a nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section
is severable.
      (2)   If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
         (a)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with
and so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
         (b)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) of
this section does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.007 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.008 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.009 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.010 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.011 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.012 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.013 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.014 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.015 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 19xx and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(19xx Code, § ).”
§ 10.016 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (B)   (1)   The liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued;
punishments, penalties, or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this
code had not been enacted.
      (2)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.999 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding an amount as set by the city from time to time
for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding an amount as set by the city from time to time
for second and subsequent violations, except for violations of ordinances
regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
City Seal
   
11.001   Custodial and usage authority designation
   
11.002   Unlawful usage
CITY SEAL
§ 11.001 CUSTODIAL AND USAGE AUTHORITY DESIGNATION.
   The City Clerk shall be custodian of the corporate seal and shall affix the
same to all documents and papers that are required to bear the official seal of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.01)
§ 11.002 UNLAWFUL USAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person to forge, corrupt or counterfeit the seal of
the city; nor shall any person other than the duly authorized public official
make use of the seal.
(Prior Code, § 11.02) Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 12: COUNCILMANIC DISTRICTS
Section
      
12.001   District descriptions
§ 12.001 DISTRICT DESCRIPTIONS.
   The city is divided into six Councilmanic districts, numbered one through
six as described in this section, and as set forth on the map designated as
Exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter, which is made a
part hereof as though set forth in full, and found on file in the office of the
City Clerk.
   (A)   First District.
Beginning in the northwest corner of District 1 where the westerly boundary of
the city intersects with the Indiana Harbor Canal/Lake George Canal thence
proceeding east parallel to the Indiana Harbor Canal until the Indiana Harbor
Canal breaks in a northeasterly and southernly direction; thence following the
Indiana Harbor Canal south to West Columbus Drive; thence west on West Columbus
Drive to Railroad Avenue; thence south on Railroad Avenue, to W. 143rd St.;
thence west on 143rd St. to Tod Avenue; thence south on Tod Avenue, to W. 145th
St., thence west on W. 145th St. to Indianapolis Blvd.; thence south on
Indianapolis Blvd, to W 148th St.; thence west on W. 148th St. to White Oak
Avenue thence north on White Oak Ave. to the beginning (the intersection of
White Oak Avenue and Indiana Harbor Canal), District 1 is outlined in the
attached Exhibit 1a (the “District 1 Map”) and the Common Council adopts such
map by reference in this chapter. If any conflicts exist between the District 1
Map and this waking description, the District 1 Map shall control.
   (B)   Second District.
Beginning in the northwest corner of District 2 where the westerly boundary of
the city intersects with W. 148th St.; thence east on W. 148th St. to Magoun
Ave.; thence south on Magoun Ave. to W. 151st St.; thence east on W. 151st St.
to the Indiana Harbor Canal and following the Indiana Harbor Canal on the
meander line until the intersection of the Indiana Harbor Canal and Kennedy
Ave.; thence south on Kennedy Ave. to Michigan St.; thence west on Michigan St.
back to the southwesterly boundary of the city, thence north along the border
of the city to the beginning (the intersection of the boundary of the city and
W. 148th St. District 2 is outlined in the attached Exhibit 1b (the “District 2
Map”) and the Common Council adopts such map by reference in this chapter. If
any conflicts exist between the District 2 Map and this waking description, the
District 2 Map shall control.
   (C)   Third District.
Beginning in the northwest corner of District 3 where W. Columbus Dr.
intersects with Railroad Ave.; thence east on W. Columbus Dr. to Carey St.;
thence south on Carey St. to E. 142nd St.; thence east on E. 142nd St. to
Euclid Ave.; thence south on Euclid Ave. to East Chicago Ave.; thence east on
East Chicago Ave. to Ivy St.; thence south on Ivy St. to E. 149th St.; thence
east on E. 149th St. to Parrish Ave.; thence north on Parrish Ave. to Gary Rd.;
thence following Gary Rd. in the southeasterly direction to the intersection of
Gary Rd. and S. Cline Ave.; thence following Gary Rd. back in the northwesterly
direction to E. 149th Pl.; thence following the railroad meander line to a
point of its intersection with E. 149th St.; thence following again the
railroad meander line In a southwesterly direction to the intersection of
Kennedy Ave.; thence south on Kennedy Ave. to the meander line of the Grand
Calumet River; thence following the meander line of the Grand Calumet River in
a northwesterly direction to where it intersections with E. 151st St.; thence
west on W. 151st St. to Magoun St.; thence north on Magoun St. to W. 148th St.;
thence east on W. 148th St. to Indianapolis Blvd.; thence north on Indianapolis
Blvd to W. 145th St.; thence east on W. 145th St. to Tod Ave.; thence north on
Tod Ave. to W. 143rd St.; thence east on W. 143rd St. to Railroad Ave.; thence
north on Railroad Ave. to point of beginning (W. Columbus Dr. and Railroad
Ave.), District 3 is outlined in the attached Exhibit 1c (the “District 3 Map”)
and the Common Council adopts such map by reference in this chapter. If any
conflicts exist between the District 3 Map and this waking description, the
District 3 Map shall control.
   (D)   Fourth District.
Beginning in the northwest corner of District 4 where E. Columbus Dr.
intersects with Euclid Ave.; thence east on E. Columbus Dr. to Parrish Ave.;
thence north on Parrish Ave. to E. 140th St.; thence east on E, 140th St. to
Grand Blvd.; thence north on Grand Blvd, to E. 139th St.; thence east on E.
139th to Alder St.; thence south on Alder St. to E. 140th St.; thence east on
140th St. to Deal St.; thence following the meander of Deal St. to E. 141st
St.; thence west on E. 141st St. to Dearborn St.; thence south on Dearborn St.
to Hawthorne St.; thence northbound on Hawthorne St. to Deal St.; thence east
on Deal St. to the East Chicago Boundary; thence south following the East
Chicago Boundary until the meander line of the Grand Calumet River; thence east
following the meander one of the Grand Calumet River to Kennedy Ave.; thence
north on Kennedy Ave. (DuPont Natural Area) until Kennedy Ave. intersects with
Kennedy Ave. at which point then following the meander line of the railroad
back northeasterly to where the railroad intersects with E. 149th St. then
following the meander line of the railroad back southwesterly along the south
side of E. 149th Pl. and following the meander line of the railroad continuing
along the south side of Gary Rd. all the way back to the eastern boundary of
the city, then following to the north of Gary Rd. heading back in the
northwesterly direction to Parrish Ave.; thence south on Parrish Ave. to E.
149th St.; thence east on E. 149th St. to Ivy St.; thence north on Ivy St. to
E. Chicago Ave.; thence east on E. Chicago Ave. to Euclid Ave.; thence north on
Euclid Ave. to the point of beginning (where E. Columbus Dr. intersects with
Euclid Ave.). District 4 is outlined in the attached Exhibit Id (the “District
4 Map”) and the Common Council adopts such map by reference in this chapter. If
any conflicts exist between the District 4 Map and this waking description, the
District 4 Map shall control.
   (E)   Fifth District.
Beginning at the southwest corner of District 5 where the Indiana Harbor Canal/
Lake George Canal intersects with the city boundary line; thence heading north
along the city boundary line; thence following the city boundary line east then
north, then east, then north, then east, then north again, then southeast, then
north to the northernmost boundary line of the east side of city (NIPSCO
Electric Substation/Arcelormittal Dock, then following the city boundary line
back south to Dickey Rd.; thence southeast on Dickey Rd. to Michigan Ave.;
thence northeast on Michigan Ave. to Fir St.; thence south on Fir St. to E,
135th St. thence east to Deodar St.; thence south on Deodar St. to Broadway
St.; thence west on Broadway St. to Elm St.; thence south on Elm St. to E.
139th St.; thence east on E. 139th St. to Grand Blvd; thence south on Grand
Blvd, to E. 140th St.; thence east on E. 140th St. to Parrish Ave.; thence
south on Parrish Ave. to E. Columbus Dr.; thence west to Euclid Ave., thence
south on Euclid to E. 142nd St., thence west to Carey St., thence north on
Carey St. to E. Columbus Dr., thence west on E. Columbus Dr. to the Indiana
Harbor Canal and following the Indiana Harbor Canal/Lake George Canal to the
point of beginning (where Indiana Harbor Canal/Lake George Canal intersects
White Oak Ave./city boundary line, District 5 is outlined in the attached
Exhibit le (the “District 5 Map”) and the Common Council adopts such map by
reference in this city, if any conflicts exist between the District 5 Map and
this waking description, the District 5 Map shall control.
   (F)   Sixth District.
Beginning at the southwest corner of District 6 where Dickey Rd. intersects
with the Indiana Harbor Canal; thence northeast along the Indiana Harbor Canal
to the northern limits of the city; thence along said Norther limits line east
to the eastern boundary of the city; thence south along said line to the
intersection of Deal St. and the East Chicago boundary line; thence heading
west on Deal St. to Dearborn St.; thence west on Dearborn St. to E. 141st St.;
thence northwestern to Deal St.; thence northwesterly to E. 140th St.; thence
west to Alder St.; thence north to E. 139th St., thence west to Elm St.; thence
North to Broadway; thence east to east to Deodar St.; thence north to 135th
St.; thence west to Fir St.; thence north to Michigan Ave. thence southwestern
on Michigan Ave. to Dickey Rd. following Dickey Rd. to the point of beginning
(where Dickey Rd. intersects with Indiana Harbor Canal). District 6 is outlined
in the attached Exhibit If (the “District 6Map”) and the Common Council adopts
such map by reference in this chapter. If any conflicts exist between the
District 6 Map and this waking description, the District 6 Map shall control.
   (G)   Precincts. The districts contain the following precincts:
      (1)   District 1: 2, 3, and part of 5;
      (2)   District 2:11, and part of 7 and 8;
      (3)   District 3:13, and part of 5, 7, 8,17, and 28;
      (4)   District 4: 31, and part of 25 and 28;
      (5)   District 5: 22, 23, 24 and part of 25 and 17; and
      (6)   District 6: 33, 35, and 36.
   (H)   Precinct boundaries. The precincts are split as follows and as
demonstrated in Exhibit 2:
      (1)   Precinct 5:
         (a)   District 1 includes all of precinct 5, being:
            1.   West of Indianapolis Blvd.; and
            2.   North of 145th St. and west of Tod Ave.
         (b)   District 3 includes all of precinct 5, being:
            1.   East of Tod Ave.; and
            2.   South of 145th St. and east of Indianapolis Blvd.
      (2)   Precinct 7:
         (a)   District 2 includes all of precinct 7, being: West of Magoun
Ave.; and
         (b)   District 3 includes all of precinct 7, being: East of Magoun
Ave.
      (3)   Precinct 8:
         (a)   District 2 includes all of precinct 8, being:
            1.   South of 151st St.; and
            2.   West of Magoun Ave.
         (b)   District 4 includes all of precinct 8, being: North of 151st St.
and east of Magoun Ave.
      (4)   Precinct 25:
         (a)   District 4 includes all of precinct 25, being:
            1.   South of 140th St.;and
            2.   East of Grand Blvd.
         (b)   District 5 includes all of precinct 25, being: North of 140th
St. and west of Grand Blvd.
      (5)   Precinct 17:
         (a)   District 3 includes all of precinct 17, being:
            1.   South of 142nd St.; and
            2.   West of Cary St.
         (b)   District 4 includes all of precinct 25, being: North of 142nd
St. and east of Cary St.
      (6)   Precinct 28:
         (a)   District 3 includes all of precinct 28, being: South of Chicago
Ave. and north of railroad tracks and west of Ivy St.
         (b)   District 4 includes the remainder of precinct 25.
   (I)   Map copies.
      (1)   Two copies of the 2022 East Chicago District Map are on file in the
office of the City Clerk for public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall forward a signed copy of this chapter to the
County Circuit Court Clerk and shall request the City Clerk to include the copy
of this chapter in the records of the Lake County Election Board.
(Prior Code, § 12.01) (Ord. 22-0053, passed 12-29- 2022)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COMMON COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, COMMISSIONS, AND BOARDS
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
35.   CITY COURT
      
36.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; CIVIL DEFENSE
      
37.   CITY CONTRACTS
      
38.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; FUNDS
      
39.   GENERAL MUNICIPAL POLICIES
      
40.   PORT AUTHORITY
CHAPTER 30: COMMON COUNCIL
Section
Council Meetings
   
30.001   Regular meetings; adjourned meetings
   
30.002   Special meetings
   
30.003   Attendance of members at meetings
   
30.004   Quorum
   
30.005   Application of Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.006   Suspension of rules generally
   
30.007   Order of business
   
30.008   Priority of business to be decided without debate
   
30.009   Ordinances; general and emergency introductions
   
30.010   Ordinances; readings and passage
   
30.011   Referrals of questions, resolutions, and the like to committees;
procedure
   
30.012   Reports by committees
   
30.013   Motions generally
   
30.014   Amendments to be germane
   
30.015   Previous question generally
   
30.016   Questions of privilege
   
30.017   Reconsideration of decided questions
   
30.018   Voting procedure
   
30.019   Voting on postponed matters
   
30.020   Speeches before Council
   
30.021   Council member decorum
   
30.022   Procedure for removal of Council member
   
30.023   Council use of city facilities
   
30.024   Public statements by Council members
Council Members
   
30.035   Composition; election
   
30.036   Legislative authority
   
30.037   Authority to allow and approve claims
   
30.038   President; election, duties
   
30.039   Vice-President
   
30.040   Sergeant-at-arms
   
30.041   Clerk of Council
COUNCIL MEETINGS
§ 30.001 REGULAR MEETINGS; ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Common Council shall be held on the second and
fourth Wednesdays of each month during the year at a place designated by the
Council President and regular meetings may be adjourned at the pleasure of a
majority vote of the members of the Common Council.
   (B)   The meetings of the Common Council shall begin at 6:00 p.m. When any
day fixed for the meeting of the Common Council shall fall upon a day
designated by law as a legal or national holiday, the meetings shall be held on
the day succeeding the holiday.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 0-99-0024, passed 12-3-1999; Ord. 0-04-0050, passed
12-13-2004; Ord. 0-06-0005, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 21-0045, passed 7-12-2021)
§ 30.002 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor or the Council President may call special meetings of the Common
Council whenever, in his or her opinion, the public business may require it.
The Mayor or the Council President shall call special meetings upon the express
written request of any five members. Whenever a special meeting shall be
called, a summons or a notice in writing signed by the Mayor or the President
of the Common Council shall be served upon each member of the Council either in
person or by notice left at his or her place of residence.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. 0-99-0024, passed 12-3-1999)
§ 30.003 ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS AT MEETINGS.
   Members shall be required to attend meetings of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
§ 30.004 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members-elect shall constitute a quorum of the Common
Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)
§ 30.005 APPLICATION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   The general rules of parliamentary law, as defined by Robert’s Rules of
Order Revised, so far as applicable, shall be considered the rules of the
Common Council, unless they conflict with any of the special rules prescribed
in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 30.05)
§ 30.006 SUSPENSION OF RULES GENERALLY.
   No rule shall be suspended except upon motion and unanimous consent, and
then only in case there are present and voting at least two-thirds of all the
members-elect.
(Prior Code, § 30.06)
§ 30.007 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Each Council meeting agenda shall contain the following order of
business:
      (1)   Roll call for attendance;
      (2)   Public hearings;
      (3)   Approval of minutes of preceding meeting;
      (4)   Communications from the Mayor;
      (5)   Communications from department heads and others;
      (6)   Ordinances introduced and first reading;
      (7)   Ordinances on second reading;
      (8)   Ordinances on third reading;
      (9)   Resolutions;
      (10)   Reports of regular and special committees;
      (11)   Unfinished business;
      (12)   New business; and
      (13)   Adjournment.
   (B)   The Council President may order a return to any order of business
after the call of the regular order of business.
(Prior Code, § 30.07) (Ord. 0-99-0024, passed 12-3-1999; Ord. 0-06-0005, passed
3-13-2006)
§ 30.008 PRIORITY OF BUSINESS TO BE DECIDED WITHOUT DEBATE.
   All questions relating to priority of business in the Common Council shall
be decided without debate.
(Prior Code, § 30.08)
§ 30.009 ORDINANCES; GENERAL AND EMERGENCY INTRODUCTIONS.
   (A)   All ordinances and resolutions shall be introduced by a member of the
Common Council, by a committee of the Council or by the Mayor. The name of the
sponsor(s) who introduces an ordinance or resolution shall be printed at the
upper right hand corner of the first page of the ordinance or resolution.
   (B)   No ordinance or resolution shall be introduced at a meeting of the
Common Council unless a copy of the ordinance or resolution shall have made
available, as provided herein, to all members of the Common Council and the
City Clerk at least 48 hours preceding the meeting at which introduction to the
Common Council is made; provided, that any member of the Common Council may
move for the immediate introduction of a resolution or ordinance due to any
emergency. The issue of whether to permit introduction of an emergency
resolution or ordinance shall be determined by a majority vote of those Council
members present.
   (C)   Agenda items and other materials to be on the agenda shall be provided
to the Clerk by Thursday 11:59 p.m. before the regularly scheduled Wednesday
Council meeting as follows:
      (1)   By placing the materials in the Council member’s mailbox at City
Hall; and
      (2)   Made available for pick-up at the central police station. Members
of the Council shall indicate, from time to time, his or her preferred method
for receiving the meeting materials.
   (D)   In the case of emergency meetings, materials to be considered shall be
personally delivered to Council members by members of the City Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 30.09) (Ord. 3309, passed - -1982; Ord. 0-99-0024, passed 12-3-
1999; Ord. 0-06-0005, passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 12-0014, passed 4-9-2012; Ord. 22-
0042, passed 9-14-2022)
§ 30.010 ORDINANCES; READINGS AND PASSAGE.
   Every ordinance shall receive three separate readings prior to its passage
and resolutions shall receive one reading. The readings of all ordinances and
resolutions shall be by title only. Any Council member may request to have an
ordinance or resolution read in its entirety. No ordinance shall be passed or
receive its third reading on the same day or at the same meeting at which it is
introduced except by a suspension of rules by the unanimous consent of the
Council, and then only in case there are present and voting unanimously, at
least two-thirds of all of the members-elect of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.10) (Ord. 3390, passed - -1985; Ord. 0-95-0016, passed - -
1995; Ord. 0-99-0024, passed 12-3-1999)
§ 30.011 REFERRALS OF QUESTIONS, RESOLUTIONS, AND THE LIKE TO COMMITTEES;
PROCEDURE.
   When it is moved to commit any question, subject, or resolution to a
committee of the Common Council and different committees are proposed, the
question shall be taken in the following order:
   (A)   First, to a standing committee to which the matters properly belong;
and
   (B)   Second, to select a committee.
(Prior Code, § 30.11)
§ 30.012 REPORTS BY COMMITTEES.
   Whenever a question, resolution, or ordinance is referred to a committee,
the question shall not be in order unless the committee referred to has had 30
days to make its report; except, that in matters concerning special
appropriations, reports shall be due in 14 days. Whenever a committee fails to
make a report within the required time on any question committed, any five
members of the Common Council may demand action on the question, resolution, or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 30.12)
§ 30.013 MOTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Statement; reading of written resolution and the like. When any
question or resolution is moved and seconded, it shall be stated by the
presiding officer of the Common Council before debate. If any question or
resolution is in writing, it shall be handed to the Clerk, who shall read it
aloud before debate.
   (B)   Oral; written; generally. Ordinary motions before the Common Council
may be oral; however, upon demand of any member, any motion may be required to
be reduced to writing, except a motion to do the following:
      (1)   Adjourn;
      (2)   Adjourn to a day or time certain;
      (3)   Postpone indefinitely;
      (4)   Commit;
      (5)   Amend;
      (6)   Suspend the rules; and/or
      (7)   Concur.
   (C)   Withdrawal. After a motion is stated by the presiding officer, it
shall be deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but may be withdrawn by
the mover thereof at any time before the decision or amendment.
   (D)   When question pending. When any question before the Common Council is
pending or under debate, no motion shall be in order except the following,
which shall have precedence in the order enumerated:
      (1)   To adjourn;
      (2)   To lay on the table;
      (3)   Previous question;
      (4)   To commit; and
      (5)   To amend.
   (E)   Motion to adjourn, generally. A motion to adjourn a meeting of the
Common Council shall always be in order, except when a motion to adjourn has
been decided in the negative. It shall not be in order to entertain or repeat
another motion to adjourn then, until some other business has intervened.
   (F)   Debate. At meetings of the Common Council, all motions to adjourn, to
lay on the table and for the previous question shall be decided without debate.
   (G)   Reconsideration of tabled motion. Any matter laid upon the table may
be taken up by a vote of the Council at any time; provided, that a motion to
reconsider, once laid upon the table, cannot again be considered.
(Prior Code, § 30.13)
§ 30.014 AMENDMENTS TO BE GERMANE.
   No matter or proposition on a subject different from that under
consideration by the Common Council shall be admitted under color of an
amendment.
(Prior Code, § 30.14)
§ 30.015 PREVIOUS QUESTION GENERALLY.
   The previous question shall be put in this form: “Shall the main question
now be put?” The previous question shall only be admitted when demanded by a
majority of the Council members present, and until decided, the previous
question shall preclude all other amendments or motions, except a motion to
adjourn. If decided in the affirmative, the Chair shall put the question first
upon the pending amendments in their order, if there by any, and then upon the
main question.
(Prior Code, § 30.15)
§ 30.016 QUESTIONS OF PRIVILEGE.
   Questions of privilege in the Common Council shall be as follows:
   (A)   A motion to reconsider and to adjourn to meet on a certain day, both
of which are not debatable; and
   (B)   Any business which by law or necessity must or should be transacted
within or by a certain time.
(Prior Code, § 30.16)
§ 30.017 RECONSIDERATION OF DECIDED QUESTIONS.
   When any question has once been decided, any member may have a
reconsideration thereof at the same or next subsequent regular meeting. These
decided questions shall be as follows:
   (A)   Resolutions adopted may be rescinded by subsequent resolutions;
   (B)   Ordinances passed may be repealed by subsequent ordinances;
   (C)   Resolutions or ordinances may be suspended for a time definitely
stated by subsequent resolutions and ordinances; and
   (D)   Resolutions, reports, and all other papers and documents properly
before the Council may be committed and recommitted at the pleasure of the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 30.17)
§ 30.018 VOTING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   Every vote of the Common Council shall be taken by roll call and
a record made and preserved of each vote.
      (2)   Every member who shall be present when a question is stated by the
Chair shall, unless the Council for good reason excuses him or her, announce
his or her vote when in the affirmative by saying “aye” or when in the negative
by saying “no” upon roll call by the Clerk.
   (B)   Any member may change his or her vote before the announcement of the
result by the Chair.
(Prior Code, § 30.18)
§ 30.019 VOTING ON POSTPONED MATTERS.
   When any matter in a common meeting is indefinitely postponed, it shall not
thereafter be voted on again for one month.
(Prior Code, § 30.19)
§ 30.020 SPEECHES BEFORE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Only members of the Common Council shall be permitted to address the
Council, except on petition, unless permitted by the consent of the majority of
the Common Council; provided, that the Mayor may address the Common Council at
any time; provided further, that any city officer may, when called upon, make a
verbal report.
   (B)   When any member is about to speak or deliver any matter to the Common
Council, he or she shall rise from his or her desk and respectfully address the
presiding officer and upon being recognized, he or she may address the Council.
He or she shall not proceed until he or she is recognized by the Chair. He or
she shall confine himself or herself to the question before the Council and
shall avoid personalities. The President shall not recognize any member as in
order unless he or she shall be at his or her proper desk.
   (C)   When two or more members of the Common Council rise at or about the
same time, the presiding officer shall decide which shall speak first.
   (D)   (1)   No member of the Common Council shall speak more than once on
the same question until every member has had an opportunity to speak on the
question.
      (2)   No member shall speak more than twice on the same question except
by consent of the Council.
      (3)   All speeches shall be limited to five minutes unless further time
is granted by the Council. Time consumed in answering questions shall not be
considered as a part of the speaker’s time.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to the same restrictions and limitations prescribed for
other members of the Council, the Council President shall be allowed to move
for or second motions for the passage or adoption of ordinances and resolutions
and shall also be allowed to participate in debate on all matters coming before
the Council.
      (2)   The President shall, however, defer his or her participation in
debate until all other members of the Council have first had opportunity to
speak on the issue being debated.
(Prior Code, § 30.20) (Ord. 0-99-0024, passed 12-3-1999; Ord. 0-06-0005, passed
3-13-2006)
§ 30.021 COUNCIL MEMBER DECORUM.
   (A)   While the presiding officer is putting a question, or when any member
is speaking, or when a vote is being taken, no member shall engage in private
discourse or walk out of or across the room unnecessarily.
   (B)   If any member in any way transgresses the rules of the Council, any
member may call him or her to order.
(Prior Code, § 30.21)
§ 30.022 PROCEDURE FOR REMOVAL OF COUNCIL MEMBER.
   (A)   Any Council person, the Mayor, or City Attorney may submit information
to the Council concerning a Council person’s violation of an official duty or
is unable to perform his/her duties and request the Council person be expelled.
   (B)   The Council person accused shall be notified in writing as to the
nature of the charges and the facts supporting them. Copies shall be filed with
the Clerk.
   (C)   The accused Council person shall have 15 days to respond to the notice
and charges in writing.
   (D)   Fifteen days after the notice and charges are filed with the Clerk,
the President of the Council shall call a special Council meeting, not more
than 20 days later. The only matter on the agenda shall be to conduct a hearing
and hear evidence for and against expulsion.
   (E)   The City Attorney, or designee, shall represent the city against the
accused Council person at the hearing.
   (F)   The State Rules of Evidence shall not apply.
   (G)   The city and the accused shall have the right to subpoena witnesses
and compel their attendance. The accused shall have the right to be represented
by an attorney; shall have the right to cross-examine witnesses; shall have the
right to present evidence and make argument on his or her behalf. The Council
Attorney shall provide assistance to the council on all procedural and
evidentiary matters.
   (H)   After the evidence has been concluded, the Council shall deliberate in
public session. When deliberations are concluded, the issue of expulsion shall
be decided by vote in the public session. A two-thirds majority vote of the
elected members shall be necessary to expel a member.
   (I)   The Council shall make findings of facts and conclusions; these shall
be reduced to writing and filed with the Clerk within five days of the hearing
and decision.
   (J)   The accused, if removed, shall have 30 days to seek judicial review as
in other administrative matters.
(Ord. 16-0001, passed 2-25-2016)
§ 30.023 COUNCIL USE OF CITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Common Council of the city is authorized to use the Heritage Hall
Community Recreation Center gymnasium, located at 4506 Tod Ave., as needed to
conduct official public meetings of the Common Council upon written request
submitted to the Parks and Recreation Department director.
   (B)   Individual Common Council members are authorized to use other city
facilities including the Heritage Hall meeting rooms, meeting rooms at other
community centers, Parks Department facilities, the Marina facilities, and the
Police Department gymnasium and meeting rooms as needed to conduct community
meetings upon written request submitted to the appropriate department head.
   (C)   The Parks Department, Heritage Hall Community Recreation Center staff,
Police Department, and any other necessary city staff shall fully cooperate
with the Common Council and its official representatives and with individual
Common Council members to facilitate the conducting of any official public
meetings of the Common Council and community meetings conducted by individual
Common Council members at these specified city facility locations.
(Ord. 20-0010, passed 7-2-2020)
§ 30.024 PUBLIC STATEMENTS BY COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   No member of the Common Council shall issue a public statement in any
form verbally or in writing or through any media which by its wording is
attributed to the Common Council as a body unless authorized to issue that
public statement by a majority of the Common Council.
   (B)   This section does not prevent a member of the Common Council from
issuing a public statement in any form verbally or in writing or through any
media which is a personal statement on a matter of public concern.
(Ord. 20-0026, passed 10-12-2020)
COUNCIL MEMBERS
§ 30.035 COMPOSITION; ELECTION.
   The number of members of the Common Council of the city shall be nine. There
shall be elected in each of the Councilmanic districts of the city one Council
member and, in addition, the whole city shall elect three Council members-at-
large.
(Prior Code, § 31.001)
§ 30.036 LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The legislative authority of the city shall be vested in the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.002)
§ 30.037 AUTHORITY TO ALLOW AND APPROVE CLAIMS.
   (A)   The City Controller is hereby authorized to make claim payments in
advance of Common Council allowance of such claims for the following kinds of
expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivision;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances; and
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance.
   (B)   Each payment for the expenses mentioned in division (A) above must be
supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill and certification by the City
Controller.
   (C)   The Common Council shall review and allow all claims paid in this
manner at its next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved
payment of the expense.
(Prior Code, § 31.003) (Ord. 05-0003, passed 1-24-2005; Ord. 10-0026, passed
12-27-2010)
§ 30.038 PRESIDENT; ELECTION, DUTIES.
   (A)   Election. The presiding officer of the Common Council shall be the
President who shall be elected annually at the first meeting in January of each
year, by the members, from their ranks. He or she shall assume the Chair of the
presiding officer immediately after his or her election.
(Prior Code, § 31.004)
   (B)   Duties. The President of the Common Council shall preserve strict
order and decorum. He or she shall decide all questions of order, and his or
her decisions shall be final unless appeals are taken to the Council. He or she
shall vote on all questions, his or her name being called last. He or she shall
appoint all standing and special committees which may be ordered by the Common
Council. All standing committees shall serve during the term of the appointing
President. He or she shall sign all ordinances and resolutions adopted by the
Common Council during his or her presence.
(Prior Code, § 31.005)
§ 30.039 VICE-PRESIDENT.
   The Vice-President of the Common Council shall be elected at the first
meeting in January of each year. He or she shall preside at meetings when
necessary and sign ordinances or resolutions adopted in the absence of the
President.
(Prior Code, § 31.006)
§ 30.040 SERGEANT-AT-ARMS.
   The Chief of Police shall detail and assign a police officer of the rank of
sergeant or higher to act as sergeant-at-arms at Common Council meetings. The
sergeant-at-arms shall preserve order in and about the Council chamber. He or
she shall act as messenger for the Council and shall act under the direction of
the Council or the President and shall obey the orders of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 31.007)
§ 30.041 CLERK OF COUNCIL.
   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to act as Clerk of the Common Council
and to keep an accurate journal of the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 31.008)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
Mayor
   
31.001   Election
   
31.002   Powers and duties
   
31.003   Mayor’s Secretary
City Clerk
   
31.015   Election; term of office
   
31.016   Duties generally
   
31.017   Compensation and fees
   
31.018   Deputy City Clerks
   
31.019   Assistants
City Controller
   
31.030   Appointment; head of Department of Finance
   
31.031   Duties and powers
   
31.032   Controller’s Chief Clerk
   
31.033   Additional assistants and clerks
City Attorney
   
31.045   Appointment; head of Department of Law
   
31.046   Duties
   
31.047   Secretary and other special assistants
   
31.048   Composition of Department of Law
City Engineer
   
31.060   Appointment; assistants
   
31.061   Duties
   
31.062   Assistant City Engineer
   
31.063   Funding of assistants
Harbor Master
   
31.075   Position created; appointment
   
31.076   Office
   
31.077   Authority and duties generally
   
31.078   Records of accidents and damages
   
31.079   Police powers
   
31.080   Custody of city property
   
31.081   Power to compel assistance
   
31.082   Control of bridges
MAYOR
§ 31.001 ELECTION.
   The Mayor of the city shall be elected by the legal voters of the city for a
term provided by law and shall serve until his or her successor is elected and
qualified. His or her term shall begin at 12:00 p.m. on January 1 following his
or her election.
(Prior Code, § 31.020)
§ 31.002 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and
shall make all appointments to all officers and positions of employment
authorized by law, except where other provisions have been made by the general
assembly of the state. He or she shall approve or disapprove in writing all
ordinances of the Common Council and shall also perform the duties required by
law.
      (2)   The Mayor shall fix the compensation of all officers and employees
of the city unless otherwise provided by the general assembly of the state.
      (3)   All officers and employees of the city, unless otherwise provided
by laws of the state, shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor, who may
terminate their office or employment at any time.
      (4)   The Mayor shall supervise the conduct of all officers and employees
of the city, except where otherwise provided by law, and shall investigate all
reasonable complaints made against any officer or employee of the city and
shall take appropriate action.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the authority to act or to designate the officer
or employee who shall act in the enforcement of any section of this code on all
occasions where the code fails to specify or designate the person who shall be
charged with the duty of enforcement.
   (C)   The Mayor’s signature shall appear on all licenses and permits granted
by the city, except as otherwise provided by law or provisions of this code.
The Mayor shall have the power to revoke or suspend any license granted by the
city, whenever any licensee has violated the terms or conditions of the license
or the law, this code, or ordinance under which it has been granted.
   (D)   The Mayor may order any theater, music hall, or other public building
closed, when it is made to appear to him or her that the public building is, by
reason of its construction or management, unsafe to the people therein
congregated or to persons adjacent thereto, or that it is not constructed and
maintained as required by law or this code.
   (E)   The Mayor shall have the power and authority to cause the display of
flags or other decorations in or about the City Hall or other public buildings
belonging to the city on those occasions as he or she may deem proper. The
Mayor shall have the power to determine the manner of observance of legal or
national holidays by officers and departments of the city. The Mayor may issue
proclamations from time to time which he or she deems proper. The Mayor shall
have power to administer oaths within the city and to solemnize marriages
within the county.
(Prior Code, § 31.021)
§ 31.003 MAYOR’S SECRETARY.
   The Mayor may appoint a Secretary whose duty shall be to attend the Mayor’s
office during usual office hours and to perform other secretarial duties as may
be required by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 31.022)
CITY CLERK
§ 31.015 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The City Clerk shall be elected for a term of four years by the legal voters
of the city at the time and in the same manner as other city officers are
elected and shall serve until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
His or her term shall begin at 12:00 p.m. on January 1 following his or her
election. He or she shall be a member of the executive or administrative branch
of the city government.
(Prior Code, § 31.035)
§ 31.016 DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The City Clerk shall perform or cause to be performed the following duties:
   (A)   Be Clerk of the Common Council; keep the files and papers and make and
keep an accurate minute and journal or record of the proceedings of the Council
and enter the ayes and noes on the vote of every ordinance or resolution and on
all other matters; have charge of all the papers relating to the business of
the Common Council;
   (B)   Immediately upon the passage and enrollment of an ordinance by the
Common Council, present it to the presiding officer, attest and sign it as
Clerk, present it to the Mayor, and record the time of the presentation to the
Mayor, present to the Common Council, at its next meeting, ordinances not
approved by the Mayor;
   (C)   Prepare and keep an ordinance book for all ordinances passed and
maintain correct copies of this code;
   (D)   Have charge of all books and documents required to be kept by the City
Clerk by provisions of law or this code;
   (E)   Keep the city seal;
   (F)   Administer, without charge, oaths on claims against the city which
require verification;
   (G)   Prepare notices of all calls for special meetings of the Common
Council and cause the same to be promptly served;
   (H)   Keep a record of and inform the City Attorney of all notices of claims
against the city for tort served upon him or her as Clerk;
   (I)   Be Clerk of the City Court and have power to administer oaths, issue
all process, affix the seal of the Court and attest the same; keep a complete
record and docket in all cases, and collect all fees, fines, penalties, and
forfeitures, as provided by law or the provisions of this code;
   (J)   Perform the duties as Clerk of the City Court in the same manner and
form as similar duties are performed by the Clerks of the County Circuit Court
in relation to acting as ex officio Clerks in the County Superior and Criminal
Courts, insofar as the same is consistent with laws of the state or the
provisions of this code;
   (K)   Be in charge of the Traffic Violations Division of the City Court, to
be known as a Cafeteria Court;
   (L)   Prepare all copies of ordinances and proposed ordinances; and
   (M)   Perform all other duties required by this code, law, or which are
incident to his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 31.036)
§ 31.017 COMPENSATION AND FEES.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall not, in addition to his or her appropriated and
lawfully provided salary, receive any other compensation, fees, or perquisites
whatsoever, except as may be provided otherwise by law.
   (B)   For furnishing certified copies of the records, pleadings, or
instruments in his or her possession, which copies shall be received as
evidence in any court or proceeding, the Clerk shall receive fees equal to
those paid for similar service performed by the Clerk of the County Circuit
Court. These fees shall be reported and paid to the City Controller for the
General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.037)
§ 31.018 DEPUTY CITY CLERKS.
   (A)   There shall be Deputy City Clerks in accordance with the number to be
provided in the annual budget ordinance.
   (B)   The Deputy City Clerks shall be skilled in the art of shorthand and
typing and shall have the ability to receive, take down, and transcribe
shorthand notes.
   (C)   The Deputy City Clerks shall serve under the direction and supervision
of the City Clerk and may be assigned by him or her to act as Clerk of the City
Court. When a deputy has been assigned by the City Clerk to serve as Clerk of
the City Court, the Clerk shall assist the judge and bailiff in conducting the
business and affairs of the Court under the direction of the City Judge. All
acts done and performed by the Deputy Clerks shall be done and performed in the
name of the City Clerk and in the manner and form prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 31.038)
§ 31.019 ASSISTANTS.
   All other persons employed to assist in the office of the City Clerk, in a
number not to exceed that for which appropriations have been made by the Common
Council and approved by the Mayor, shall be appointed by and serve at the
pleasure of the Mayor and under the supervision of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 31.039)
CITY CONTROLLER
§ 31.030 APPOINTMENT; HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE.
   The City Controller shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the
Mayor. He or she shall be head of the Department of Finance.
(Prior Code, § 31.050)
§ 31.031 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The City Controller is hereby authorized to make claim payments in
advance of Common Council allowance of claims for the following kinds of
expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivision;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance;
      (14)   Police and Fire pension death benefits; and
      (15)   Title insurance expenses, closing costs, and tax prorations.
   (B)   Each payment for these foregoing expenses must be supported by a fully
itemized invoice or bill and certification by the City Controller.
   (C)   The Common Council shall review and allow all claims paid in this
manner at its next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved
payment of the expense.
(Prior Code, § 31.051) (Ord. 0-05-0003, passed 1-24-2005; Ord. 16-0019, passed
12-27-2016)
§ 31.032 CONTROLLER’S CHIEF CLERK.
   There is created the position of Controller’s Chief Clerk, who shall have
and exercise the powers and duties assigned to him or her by the City
Controller, unless otherwise provided by law or by this code.
(Prior Code, § 31.052)
§ 31.033 ADDITIONAL ASSISTANTS AND CLERKS.
   The City Controller is authorized, subject to the approval of the Mayor, to
employ further assistants and clerks which the business of the Department of
Finance may require. The number and the salary of the employees in the
Department of Finance shall be fixed by the Mayor and be provided by the Common
Council in the annual budget and salary ordinance in the manner provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 31.053)
CITY ATTORNEY
§ 31.045 APPOINTMENT; HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
   The City Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall be the head of
the Department of Law.
(Prior Code, § 31.065)
§ 31.046 DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall be the attorney and counsel of the city. He or
she shall have the management, charge and control of the law business of the
city and for each branch of its government and shall be the legal advisor of
all its departments and officers.
   (B)   The City Attorney with his or her assistants shall:
      (1)   Conduct all legal proceedings and appeals of every nature
authorized by law;
      (2)   Draw up ordinances, leases, deeds, contracts, or other legal papers
for the city in its various departments when requested to do so by the proper
officer;
      (3)   Appear for and protect the rights and interests of the city in all
actions and proceedings brought by or against it, or against any officer or
head of any city board or department in his or her official capacity;
      (4)   When requested by the Mayor or the Common Council, furnish opinions
upon law subjects connected with the city;
      (5)   Exercise supervision of the revisions of ordinances and insertion
of general ordinances in this code and the preparation of supplements to this
code;
      (6)   Make and effect settlements of lawsuits and claims for and against
the city as he or she may deem to the best interests of the city, subject to
the approval of the Mayor;
      (7)   Prosecute violators of this code or city ordinances;
      (8)   Assist in the prosecution or defense in the city of any matter
involving the Public Service Commission, when called upon by the Attorney
General;
      (9)   Report to the Department of Finance all judgments against the city;
and
      (10)   Examine all quotations or digests of this code or of laws to be
announced or circulated by any officer or employee of this city in connection
with any municipal matter.
(Prior Code, § 31.066)
§ 31.047 SECRETARY AND OTHER SPECIAL ASSISTANTS.
   The Secretary to the City Attorney shall be appointed by the City Attorney
subject to the approval of the Mayor. The City Attorney may appoint or employ
special assistants or special counsel, subject to the approval of the Mayor,
for which funds have been provided in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 31.067)
§ 31.048 COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
   The Department of Law shall be composed of the City Attorney, Secretary to
the City Attorney, Assistant City Attorney, and any other assistants and clerks
as may be provided for in the annual budget appropriation ordinance or in the
manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 31.068)
CITY ENGINEER
§ 31.060 APPOINTMENT; ASSISTANTS.
   The City Engineer shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the
Mayor and shall be subject to the direction of the Board of Public Works and
Safety. Necessary assistants to the City Engineer shall be appointed by and
serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 31.080)
§ 31.061 DUTIES.
   The City Engineer shall:
   (A)   Keep accurate records of grades, lines of sewers, pipe lines of
private and public corporations permitted under franchises or contract;
   (B)   Design the repairing or building of any public property unless
otherwise provided;
   (C)   Plat all streets, alleys, and public places in the city and preserve a
record thereof;
   (D)   Design the construction, alteration, and maintenance of all public
ways or sewers within the city;
   (E)   Design any bridgeway or viaduct for the city;
   (F)   Make and keep a map record of all sewers, gas, water, electric, wire,
heat, and other pipe and conduits both public and private showing the size,
depth, inclination, location, date of construction of the same and record every
change which may be made in the same with all new connections and improvements;
   (G)   Keep a record of the grades of all streets, alleys, sidewalks, and
other public ways;
   (H)   Have charge of all the engineering matters within the city and within
the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works;
   (I)   Have charge of all construction work on improvements, the construction
and repair of all bridges and viaducts, the construction and repair of other
work in the harbor, and the construction or maintenance of all city waterworks,
including the laying of all mains and water supply pipes;
   (J)   Be the traffic engineer for the city and have supervision of the
streets and conduct studies of street traffic accidents, congestion, and other
conditions affecting safe and convenient use of the streets;
   (K)   Collect facts regarding the control of street traffic;
   (L)   Plan and direct the methods and operation of traffic signs and
signals, loading platforms, and other street traffic marking and control;
   (M)   Assist the City Plan Commission and assist in the proper enforcement
of the zoning regulations of the city;
   (N)   Prepare all necessary charts, blueprints, drawings, and specifications
for the Board of Public Works and Safety; and
   (O)   Perform other matters as may be required by law, by the duties of his
or her office, or by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 31.081)
§ 31.062 ASSISTANT CITY ENGINEER.
   There is created the position of Assistant City Engineer. The Assistant City
Engineer shall perform the duties assigned to him or her by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 31.082)
§ 31.063 FUNDING OF ASSISTANTS.
   The number and salaries of other assistants to the City Engineer shall be
fixed and determined in the annual budget, which is adopted in the manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 31.083)
HARBOR MASTER
§ 31.075 POSITION CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is created the position of Harbor Master. The Harbor Master shall be
appointed by the Mayor and serve at his or her pleasure.
(Prior Code, § 31.095)
§ 31.076 OFFICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Harbor Master to keep an office in a place as
the Board of Public Works and Safety shall designate, where at all times during
the season of navigation he or she can be found, or where orders can be left
and receive prompt attention.
(Prior Code, § 31.096)
§ 31.077 AUTHORITY AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Harbor Master shall serve under the direction of the Board of
Public Works and Safety and shall perform duties as may be prescribed for him
or her by the Board and the provisions of this code or law.
   (B)   The Harbor Master shall have jurisdiction and authority over all
vessels, crafts, or floats moored or navigating in the harbor, which authority
does not conflict with the authority exercised by the government of the United
States.
(Prior Code, § 31.097)
§ 31.078 RECORDS OF ACCIDENTS AND DAMAGES.
   (A)   The Harbor Master shall keep an accurate account and record of each
case of damage to bridges, docks, and all other city property pertaining to the
harbor, which occur by any violation of the provisions of this code or law by
any person, vessel, craft, or float, which record shall include the name of the
vessel, craft, or float and the owners, master, or consignee thereof. The
Harbor Master shall gather all evidence and information, in his or her power,
concerning any violation; and shall also keep an accurate record of the amount
of the damage, when, to whom, and how paid; and shall keep an account of all
claims the city made by vessel owners or persons navigating the harbor for
damages sustained in the harbor to vessels or other craft and shall make a
detailed report thereof to the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   Bridge tenders shall make a report of all accidents and damages at
their respective bridges, copies of which shall be sent to the Harbor Master,
the Board of Public Works and Safety and the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 31.098)
§ 31.079 POLICE POWERS.
   The Harbor Master shall be sworn in as a special police officer by the Board
of Public Works and Safety, for the purpose of carrying more readily into
effect the police regulations of the city concerning the harbor under his or
her charge, and to preserve the public peace and quiet in and about the harbor
and, for the purposes, shall have all the power and authority of police
officers under the laws of the state and the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 31.099)
§ 31.080 CUSTODY OF CITY PROPERTY.
   The Harbor Master shall have charge of and be responsible for the
safekeeping of any city property which may be placed in his or her charge by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 31.100)
§ 31.081 POWER TO COMPEL ASSISTANCE.
   If any vessel, craft, or float, either by winding or other cause, shall run
afoul and obstruct the navigation or passage of other boats or crafts, the
Harbor Master shall have power and is hereby authorized to order to his or her
assistance people and tackle from any boat or craft. The Harbor Master shall
have the power and is authorized to order to his or her assistance any tug,
boat, or crew that may be in the vicinity or passing at the time, to assist him
or her in the removal of vessels in the performance of any of his or her
duties. Every master or officer of a boat, craft, or tug shall render the
assistance so ordered and any steamboat, vessel, or other craft or float
receiving assistance shall pay to the person rendering the same the cost or
expense of the assistance, the amount thereof to be fixed by the Harbor Master.
(Prior Code, § 31.101)
§ 31.082 CONTROL OF BRIDGES.
   (A)   All bridges crossing the Grand Calumet River and the Indiana Harbor
Ship Canal or any of its branches within the harbor of the city, including
railroad bridges, shall be under the control of the Harbor Master, except where
jurisdiction is assumed by the State Highway Commission. The Harbor Master
shall have power to order the opening and closing of the same at any time, in
his or her judgment, it is necessary to carry out the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   In all matters pertaining to the opening and closing of bridges, the
Harbor Master shall conform to all provisions of this code or law regulating
the opening and closing of bridges.
(Prior Code, § 31.102)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, COMMISSIONS, AND BOARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Departments of the city
   
32.002   Department Directors
   
32.003   Other municipal functions
   
32.004   Previous powers and authorities
City Offices
   
32.015   Office of the Mayor
   
32.016   Office of City Controller
   
32.017   Office of Special Events
   
32.018   Office of Inquiries and Complaints
Public Works/Utilities Departments
   
32.030   Department of Water Works
   
32.031   Maintenance Services Department
   
32.032   Solid Waste Division of the Sanitary District
   
32.033   Wastewater Department of the Sanitary District
   
32.034   Utilities Administrative Services Division
   
32.035   Department of Public Works
   
32.036   Department of Public Sanitation
Health and Public Safety Departments
   
32.050   Police Department
   
32.051   Fire Department
   
32.052   Department of Hazardous Materials Response
   
32.053   Department of Emergency Management and Communications
   
32.054   Department of Public Information
   
32.055   Department of Public Access Cable Service
   
32.056   Department of Public and Environmental Health
   
32.057   Department of Environmental Management
   
32.058   Department of Emergency Medical Services
   
32.059   Code Enforcement Department
Building and Development Departments
   
32.070   Engineering Department
   
32.071   Building Department
   
32.072   Department of Planning
   
32.073   Department of Redevelopment
   
32.074   Housing Authority
   
32.075   City Inspections Department
Administrative and Community Departments
   
32.090   Department of Law
   
32.091   Department of Personnel
   
32.092   Data Processing Department
   
32.093   Department of Economic and Business Development
   
32.094   Department of Public Transportation
   
32.095   Department of Parks and Recreation, generally
   
32.096   Port Authority (Marina Facility)
Health Department
   
32.110   Created
   
32.111   Clerk of Department
   
32.112   Clerk-Interpreter
   
32.113   Health Officer
   
32.114   Insignia and police powers of Health Officers, Inspectors, and the
like
   
32.115   Inspection powers and right of entry
   
32.116   Chief Health Inspector and Health Inspector
   
32.117   Public health nurses
   
32.118   Baby clinic doctor
   
32.119   Venereal disease doctor
   
32.120   Authorized assistants, employees, and public health personnel
   
32.121   City chemist
   
32.122   Chemical and bacteriological laboratory
   
32.123   Board of Health
   
32.124   Emergency medical service
Department of Parks and Recreation
   
32.135   Created; composition
   
32.136   Application of state law
   
32.137   Members
   
32.138   Powers
   
32.139   Special nonreverting capital fund
Redevelopment Department and Board of Trustees
   
32.150   Department of Redevelopment
   
32.151   Created; composition
   
32.152   Appointment and terms of office of members
Commissions
   
32.165   Economic Development Commission
   
32.166   City Plan Commission
   
32.167   Public Transportation Commission
   
32.168   Referral Job Bank Commission
   
32.169   Women’s Commission
Data System
   
32.180   Created
   
32.181   Data System Board
   
32.182   Rate adjustment authority
   
32.183   Rate applicability
   
32.184   Funds; management authority
   
32.185   Data System Revolving Fund
   
32.186   Data Processing Department to remain independent of data system
   
32.187   Data system users
Cable Communications Advisory Board
   
32.200   Created
   
32.201   Term
   
32.202   Conflict of interest
   
32.203   Meetings
   
32.204   Quorum
   
32.205   Advisory relationship
   
32.206   Powers and duties
   
32.207   Expenses
   
32.208   Legal counsel
   
32.209   Written report
   
32.210   Stipend
Board of Public Works and Board of Public Safety
   
32.225   Established
   
32.226   Building Commissioner
   
32.227   Department of Public Works
   
32.228   Department of Public Safety
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 DEPARTMENTS OF THE CITY.
   (A)   The following departments and offices are hereby established:
      (1)   The Office of the Mayor;
      (2)   The Office of City Controller;
      (3)   The Department of Law;
      (4)   The Personnel Department;
      (5)   The Data Processing Department;
      (6)   The Department of Water Works;
      (7)   The Engineering Department;
      (8)   The Maintenance Services Department;
      (9)   The Solid Waste Division (of the Sanitary District);
      (10)   The Wastewater Division (of the Sanitary District);
      (11)   The Utilities Administrative Services Division;
      (12)   The Police Department;
      (13)   The Fire Department;
      (14)   The Department of Hazardous Materials Response;
      (15)   The Department of Emergency Management and Communications;
      (16)   The Department of Public Information;
      (17)   The Office of Special Events;
      (18)   The Department of Public Access Cable Service;
      (19)   The Building Department;
      (20)   The Department of Economic and Business Development;
      (21)   The Department of Planning and Development;
      (22)   The Department of Redevelopment;
      (23)   The Department of Public and Environmental Health;
      (24)   The Department of Environmental Management;
      (25)   The Department of Emergency Medical Services;
      (26)   The Department of Public Transportation;
      (27)   The Department of Parks and Recreation;
      (28)   The Office of Inquiries and Complaints;
      (29)   The Housing Authority;
      (30)   The Port Authority (Marina facility); and
      (31)   The Department of Public Works.
   (B)   The Mayor may establish and organize the divisions within the
departments and offices as necessary.
   (C)   Each of the departments and offices mentioned in division (A) above
shall have the authority, duties, and responsibilities assigned thereto by this
subchapter, by the applicable statutes of the state, or by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 32.001) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000; Ord. 0-01-0023,
passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 13-0039, passed 12-23-2013)
§ 32.002 DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS.
   (A)   Generally. Each of the departments and offices established by §
32.001 shall be directed and managed by a chief administrative officer who
shall be designated as the director of the department or office. The director
of each department or office shall be appointed and serve at the pleasure of
the Mayor, except as otherwise provided by law, and shall be subject to the
jurisdiction of the Mayor and shall function in accordance with administrative
rules, policies, and directives promulgated by the Mayor.
   (B)   General powers and duties of departments.
      (1)   The director of each department shall have the responsibility to
conduct and coordinate the administration and functions of the various duties
and responsibilities hereinafter specifically assigned to the general executive
department. The director of each of the general executive departments shall
have the power to prescribe rules and regulations not inconsistent with the
city personnel policy, any statute, rule, or regulation promulgated by the
Mayor for the government of the department, regulating the conduct of its
officers, clerks, and employees, the distribution and performance of its
business, and the preservation of its records, papers, and properties. All
official business of the departments shall be transacted at the offices
thereof. The director of each general executive department shall have the power
to appoint and remove, subject to the approval of the Director of Personnel,
any of its clerks, assistants, or employees, each of whom shall serve at the
pleasure of the Mayor and department director, consistent with the city
personnel policy, state statute, and federal law.
      (2)   Each department and office shall have the responsibility and
authority to conduct and coordinate the administration and function of the city
services, functions, and duties designated herein whether now performed by
separate governmental units or not, provided that the responsibility and
authority granted herein is exercised in a manner not inconsistent with state
law.
      (3)   Each department and office shall conduct business and personnel
matters in accordance with the general city personnel policies promulgated
under the authority of the Mayor by the Department of Personnel of the city.
The policies shall have precedence over any policies and procedures of the
individual department or office.
(Prior Code, § 32.002) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.003 OTHER MUNICIPAL FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-4-4-3 any executive or administrative function not
assigned by this subchapter shall be assigned by the Mayor to the proper
department, agency, or officer.
   (B)   The authorities conveyed by previous ordinance and statute to the
Board of Public Works and Safety, the Park Board, the Board of Sanitary
Commissioners, and various other Boards and Commissions shall be unchanged by
this subchapter.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall be the legal contracting
authority for the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.034) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.004 PREVIOUS POWERS AND AUTHORITIES.
   (A)   Any power or authority previously granted by ordinance or resolution
shall remain in full force and effect unless specifically modified by
provisions contained herein.
   (B)   All obligations, contracts, agreements, and actions taken under any
ordinance or resolution modified or repealed by this subchapter shall remain in
full force and effect and shall remain legally binding.
(Prior Code, § 32.035) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
CITY OFFICES
§ 32.015 OFFICE OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   The Office of the Mayor shall include all functions assigned to the
Mayor who shall act as the Chief Executive of the city.
      (B)   The Mayor shall have all power and authority assigned to the Office
by the statutes of the state (I.C. 36-4-5-3).
      (C)   The Mayor shall ensure the efficient operation of the city and
enforce the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state.
      (D)   The Mayor shall appoint personnel and assign duties as are
necessary to conduct the business of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 32.003) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.016 OFFICE OF CITY CONTROLLER.
   (A)   (1)   The Office of the City Controller shall administer the finances
of the city.
      (2)   The City Controller shall be the Chief Fiscal and Financial Officer
of the city and shall perform duties and have responsibility and authority as
assigned by the statutes of the state.
   (B)   The Mayor may appoint a Deputy Controller who shall have duties and
authority as assigned by the Controller or provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 32.004) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.017 OFFICE OF SPECIAL EVENTS.
   The Director of Special Events shall:
   (A)   Serve to coordinate all special events sponsored in whole or in part
by the city and its departments, offices, agencies, and political subdivisions;
   (B)   Establish a master calendar of events;
   (C)   Manage the scheduling of special events and use of city facilities,
equipment, and personnel;
   (D)   Represent the city in special events matters; and
   (E)   Communicate the scheduling of special events to the Public Information
Department.
(Prior Code, § 32.019) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.018 OFFICE OF INQUIRIES AND COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   The Office of Inquiries and Complaints shall be responsible for
receiving and recording all citizen inquiries and complaints relating to
services or functions of the city.
   (B)   The Office shall communicate requests for service or complaints to the
appropriate city department or agency.
   (C)   The Office shall also establish a system to verify that the city
department to which the request was assigned satisfies each request for
service.
   (D)   The Office shall also promptly investigate and attempt to resolve all
citizen complaints and inquiries and report same to the Office of the Mayor.
   (E)   The Office shall provide a quarterly report regarding citizen requests
and complaints to the Office of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 32.033) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
PUBLIC WORKS/UTILITIES DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.030 DEPARTMENT OF WATER WORKS.
   The Department of Water Works shall operate as a municipal utility and
perform functions as assigned in I.C. 8-1.5-1 et seq., the applicable sections
of the State Administrative Code, and the rules and regulations as adopted by
the Board of Trustees of the Department of Water Works.
(Prior Code, § 32.008) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.031 MAINTENANCE SERVICES DEPARTMENT.
   The Maintenance Services Department shall be responsible for the maintenance
of city streets, sidewalks, alleyways, and other public properties of the civil
city. The streets, sidewalks, and alleyways shall be maintained in a clean and
safe condition at all times. The Department shall also provide maintenance
services and repair of all buildings and structures owned by the civil city.
The Department will provide for the proper maintenance and repair of all
vehicles, trucks, and other heavy equipment owned by this city. The Department
shall other have duties and authority prescribed by ordinance or statute,
include all functions previously assigned to the Street Department and General
Services Department of the city. The Department shall also receive motor
vehicle highway funds in accordance with and under the supervision of the City
Controller. The Director of this Department shall have all powers and duties
assigned to the Street Commissioner under previous ordinance and state statute.
(Prior Code, § 32.010) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.032 SOLID WASTE DIVISION OF THE SANITARY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. The Solid Waste Division of the City Sanitary District is
hereby established as an executive department of the city organized under I.C.
36-9-25 et seq. and any resolutions and regulations adopted by the Board of
Sanitary Commissioners.
   (B)   Responsibilities and duties. The responsibilities and authorities
assigned to this Department shall include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Provide for the collection and disposal of solid waste within the
city;
      (2)   Provide equipment and facilities necessary for the collection and
disposal of solid waste;
      (3)   Provide for the collection and disposal of discarded items such as
used domestic appliances that have been discarded in the city;
      (4)   Provide waste resource recovery service, including but not limited
to recycling of paper, cardboard, glass, plastics, and ferrous and non-ferrous
metals;
      (5)   Take actions necessary to maintain clean streets and alleys within
the city;
      (6)   Provide and maintain facilities for the maintenance and housing of
equipment owned by the Sanitary District and the city;
      (7)   Provide any other services, as directed by the Mayor or the Board
of Sanitary Commissioners in accordance with applicable law; and
      (8)   Perform duties and have authority as assigned by I.C. 36-9-25.
   (C)   Provisions of this section to be considered supplemental. The
provisions contained herein are supplemental to any ordinance of this Council
or any resolution of the Board of Sanitary Commissioners not repealed by this
section.
(Prior Code, § 32.011) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.033 WASTEWATER DEPARTMENT OF THE SANITARY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Generally. The Wastewater Division of the City Sanitary District is
hereby established as an executive department of the city organized under I.C.
36-9-25 et seq., and any resolutions and regulations adopted by the Board of
Sanitary Commissioners.
   (B)   Responsibilities and duties. The responsibilities and authorities
assigned to this Department shall include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Provide for the collection and treatment of sewage, wastewater, and
stormwater drainage within the city;
      (2)   Provide for the operation and maintenance of a wastewater treatment
plant and other plants and equipment necessary to accomplish the requirements
of division (B)(1) above;
      (3)   Provide for the treatment and disposal of sludge, grit, and other
materials generated by the requirements of this section;
      (4)   Provide and operate a system of stormwater drains and drainage in
streets, alleys, and thoroughfares within the city;
      (5)   Own, operate, and maintain equipment necessary to maintain clean
sewers and streets free of materials and grit that would be detrimental to the
treatment of wastewater and stormwater within the city;
      (6)   Regulate the discharge of wastewater into the system of sewers
owned and operated by the city;
      (7)   Provide a system of fees for the use of and discharge of wastewater
into the sewers owned and operated by the city;
      (8)   Provide any other services as directed by the Mayor or the Board of
Sanitary Commissioners in accordance with applicable law; and
      (9)   Perform duties and have authority as assigned by I.C. 36-9-25.
   (C)   Provisions of this section to be considered supplemental. The
provisions contained herein are supplemental to any ordinance of this Council
or any resolution of the Board of Sanitary Commissioners not repealed by this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 32.012) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.034 UTILITIES ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES DIVISION.
   (A)   The Utilities Administrative Services Division is hereby confirmed as
a city agency.
   (B)   The Utilities Administrative Services Division shall be organized and
administered in accordance with resolutions adopted by the Board of Sanitary
Commissioners and the Board of Trustees of the Water Works.
(Prior Code, § 32.013) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.035 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   The Department of Public Works is hereby established as a city
department.
   (B)   This Department shall be organized and administered in accordance with
resolutions adopted by the city agencies governing the city streets, parks, and
solid waste.
(Ord. 13-0039, passed 12-23-2013)
§ 32.036 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SANITATION.
   (A)   Created. There is created the Department of Public Sanitation as an
executive department of the city pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-4.
(Prior Code, § 32.100)
   (B)   Appointment of personnel. The Trustees shall appoint personnel as may
be required to accomplish the total objectives of the Department as newly
constituted.
(Prior Code, § 32.101)
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Department of Public Sanitation shall have the
powers and perform the functions provided by law. Whenever the functions of
other departments, divisions, or bureaus are assumed by the Department of
Public Sanitation because of the operation of a sewage disposal plant, the
Department of Public Sanitation shall have the powers now assigned by this code
to other departments, divisions, or bureaus whose work and duties have been
superseded.
(Prior Code, § 32.102)
   (D)   Wastewater Division and Solid Waste Division. The Department of Public
Sanitation shall consist of two divisions, namely, Waste Water Division and
Solids Waste Division. To accomplish this purpose, the department of the city
heretofore known as Garbage and Ashes shall be and is transferred to the
Department of Sanitation.
(Prior Code, § 32.103)
   (E)   Composition and appointment of Board of Sanitary Commissioners. 
      (1)   The Department of Public Sanitation shall be under the control of a
Board of five members to be known as the Board of Sanitary Commissioners, four
of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor in the manner provided by law and fifth
shall be the City Civil Engineer, who shall be a member of the Board by virtue
of his or her office.
      (2)   All appointments shall be made by the Mayor in the manner provided
by statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 32.104)
HEALTH AND PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.050 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall have powers and authorities as vested in the
Department by the statutes of the state in accordance with policies and
procedures adopted by the City Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 32.014) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.051 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Fire Department shall have powers and authorities as vested in the
Department by the statutes of the state in accordance with policies and
procedures adopted by the City Board of Public Works and Safety and the Fire
Civil Service Commission.
(Prior Code, § 32.015) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.052 DEPARTMENT OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE.
   The Department of Hazardous Material Response (also known as HazMat) shall
be responsible for the management of hazardous material spills, discharge, and
other incidents involving hazardous materials that represent a danger to
persons or properties within the city. The Department shall operate all
facilities and equipment necessary to effectively manage hazardous material
events. The Department shall also provide continuing training and education for
persons employed in these activities and shall establish and maintain a
training facility to provide training and education. The Department shall
coordinate its activities with the Fire Department, Police Department, and the
Department of Emergency Management and Communications. The Department shall
have additional authority and responsibility as assigned by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 32.016) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.053 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   The Department of Emergency Management and Communications shall be
managed by a Director of Emergency Management who shall be appointed by and
serve at the pleasure of the Mayor. The Department shall develop and maintain
an Emergency Management Plan for the city. The Department shall be vested will
all authority necessary for emergency management, subject to direction of the
Mayor. The Director shall administer and operate the Emergency Communication
Center for the city and shall supervise all employees and staff assigned
thereto. The Emergency Communication Center shall be operated in accordance
with policies and procedures approved by a management committee consisting of
the following: the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief, the Director of Emergency
Medical Services, the Director (Chief) of Hazardous Material Response, the City
Controller, and a Chairperson appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Emergency Management Plan of the city shall be developed in
cooperation with the Police Department, the Fire Department, Emergency Medical
Services, the Health Department, Hazardous Materials Response Department, and
other appropriate departments of the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.017) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.054 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Department shall be managed by the Director of Public Information
and shall employ persons as are necessary to disseminate public information.
   (B)   The Department shall produce newsletters, newspapers, and other media
to inform citizens of city activities, programs, and events.
   (C)   The Department shall serve as the spokesperson to the news media for
all city departments, agencies, commissions, and subunits.
   (D)   The Director shall develop and administer city policies regarding the
public access statutes and regulations. The Director shall also be responsible
for the oversight of the Department of Public Access Cable Service.
(Prior Code, § 32.018) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.055 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC ACCESS CABLE SERVICE.
   (A)   The Department of Public Access Cable Service is hereby established
for the city.
   (B)   The Department shall endeavor to enhance communication to the citizens
of the city through the use of cable television technologies.
   (C)   The Department shall work with federal, local, and state agencies to
provide public information in accordance with state and federal guidelines.
   (D)   The Department shall be supervised by a Board appointed in accordance
with ordinances adopted by this Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.020) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.056 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH.
   (A)   The Department of Public and Environmental Health, acting by and
through the Health Officer, shall have powers and duties as defined by the
statutes of the state and in accordance with resolutions, policies, and
procedures adopted by the City Board of Public Health. The Health Commissioner
and Department shall be responsible for protecting the health of the citizens
and shall have powers and authority necessary to protect the health of the
citizens of the city.
   (B)   In addition to duties and responsibilities assigned by statute the
Department shall be responsible for animal control within the city and employ
the animal warden as are necessary and if necessary operate and maintain an
animal facility to contain and dispose of stray animals. The animal control
program shall be in accordance with the applicable ordinances of this Council
and resolutions of the Board of Pubic Health. Pursuant to the authority granted
by the statutes of the state, the authority of the Health Officer to fix fees
for vital records is hereby confirmed.
(Prior Code, § 32.026) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.057 DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT.
   The Department of Environmental Management shall be responsible for the
protection of the environment and shall have duties and responsibilities as
assigned by the Mayor and assigned by ordinance adopted by this Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.027) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.058 DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES.
   (A)   The Department of Emergency Medical Services shall provide emergency
medical services to the citizens of the city.
   (B)   The Department shall operate vehicles, facilities, and equipment as
necessary and to employ personnel to provide services. The persons so employed
shall have any required certifications and licenses necessary to provide
service.
   (C)   The Department shall comply with all applicable local, federal laws
and statutes, and administrative code requirements of the state and shall
comply with any requirements set forth by the Health Officer and Corporation
Counsel.
(Prior Code, § 32.028) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.059 CODE ENFORCEMENT DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Created. A new executive department titled Code Enforcement Department
is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 32.315)
   (B)   Duties. The duties assigned to this Department will be the
administration and enforcement of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq. (The Unsafe Building
Law) and enforcement of all city ordinances related to maintenance of property.
(Prior Code, § 32.316)
(Ord. 0-08-0001, passed 7-9-2008)
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.070 ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Generally. The Engineering Department shall provide technical
engineering services for the city and shall be managed by the City Engineer who
shall be the Director of this Department. The Department shall perform duties
and have responsibilities and authority as granted or required by state law.
   (B)   Responsibilities and duties. The Department shall also have the
following duties, responsibilities, and authority:
      (1)   Maintain a system of records of all public buildings and public
properties, including all streets, alleyways, sidewalks, and other properties;
      (2)   Represent the Department in all engineering matters to the Board of
Public Works and Safety;
      (3)   Review and approve all construction and modification of any
building, structure, or property of the city and its agencies, departments,
commissions, boards, and subunits;
      (4)   Coordinate all engineering services provided by the city and its
agencies, departments, commissions, boards, and subunits;
      (5)   Supervise traffic and traffic engineering for the city;
      (6)   Establish and maintain a system of automated records in a
geographic information system that shall be available to all city agencies,
departments, commissions, boards, and subunits; and
      (7)   Perform other duties as assigned by the Mayor of the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.009) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.071 BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
   The Building Department shall be under the direction of the Building
Commissioner and shall be responsible for enforcement of the building, housing
standards, and property maintenance codes of the city. The Department shall
license contractors, review plans, issue building permits, and inspect the
construction of buildings and other structures within the city. The Department
shall take other actions and have powers as are necessary to enforce the codes.
The Department shall have additional duties, responsibilities, and powers as
assigned by state statute or city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 32.021) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.072 DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING.
   (A)   The Planning Department shall be responsible for the development of a
comprehensive land use plan and for the development and enforcement of zoning
ordinances and regulations relating thereto.
   (B)   The plans and ordinances shall protect the character and stability of
residential, commercial, and industrial areas within the city and shall promote
the orderly and beneficial development of areas.
   (C)   The Department shall function in support of the Plan Commission and
Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with statutes and ordinances applicable
thereto.
   (D)   The Department shall have other powers and duties as prescribed by
ordinance or statute and shall provide other duties as assigned by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 32.023) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.073 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   The Department of Redevelopment shall have duties, responsibilities, and
authority prescribed by applicable state and federal statutes and the
applicable ordinances adopted by the Common Council and resolutions, policies,
and actions of the Board of Redevelopment Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 32.024) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.074 HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   The Housing Authority shall have powers and duties as authorized by
applicable state and federal statutes and the applicable ordinances adopted by
the Common Council and resolutions, policies, and actions of the Board of
Directors of the City Housing Authority.
(Prior Code, § 32.025) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.075 CITY INSPECTIONS DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established a consolidated City
Inspection Department. The Code Enforcement Department, the Building
Department, the Health Inspection Department and the Zoning Inspection
Department shall be merged and be operated as a single consolidated Inspections
Department.
(Prior Code, § 32.330)
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The duties assigned to this Department will be the administration
and enforcement of all ordinances related to the maintenance of property in a
safe and healthy manner.
      (2)   This Department will perform all inspections, order repairs and/or
demolitions, post uninhabitable designations, issue stop work orders, enforce
the Unsafe Building Law, being I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., as adopted by this
subchapter, and all enforcement of the city zoning regulations, excepting all
duties specifically prohibited or delegated elsewhere by state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 32.331)
(Ord. 0-08-0001, passed 7-9-2008)
ADMINISTRATIVE AND COMMUNITY DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.090 DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
   (A)   Generally. The Department of Law shall consist of the Corporation
Counsel, who shall be the head of the department. The Corporation Counsel’s
first deputy shall be the City Attorney. The Corporation Counsel shall appoint
Assistant City Attorneys as are necessary to conduct the legal affairs of the
city.
   (B)   Responsibilities and duties. The Department of Law shall have duties
and responsibilities as assigned by the statutes of the state, which shall
include the following:
      (1)   Manage all legal affairs of the city;
      (2)   Prosecute violators of city ordinances;
      (3)   Provide legal advice to officers, department, boards, commissions,
and other agencies of the city;
      (4)   Prepare legal documents for the city and its departments, boards,
commissions, and agencies when so requested;
      (5)   Conduct all legal proceedings and appeals of every nature
authorized by law;
      (6)   Represent the city in all legal matters including the negotiation
relating to resolution of legal matters, in matters the Department is fully
empowered to act on behalf of the city; and
      (7)   Have all duties and powers prescribed by the State Code.
(Prior Code, § 32.005) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.091 DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Generally. The Department of Personnel shall be responsible for the
development of uniform administration of personnel policies for the city.
   (B)   Responsibilities and duties. Responsibilities and authorities assigned
to this Department shall include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Develop and promulgate, subject to adoption by the Common Council,
one citywide personnel policy, and other regulations and procedures as
necessary for all departments and offices of the city;
      (2)   Develop and provide Personnel Manual and Handbook for employees of
the city;
      (3)   Provide and administer a system of uniform wages, salaries, and
group health and life benefits for employees of the city;
      (4)   Ensure equal employment opportunities for employment with the city;
      (5)   Conduct substance abuse testing as required by applicable
ordinances and regulations of the city;
      (6)   Provide uniform practices for hiring of city employees;
      (7)   Provide other services and perform duties as may be assigned by the
Mayor; and
      (8)   Comply with any local, state, or federal requirements relating to
employment and employment practices.
   (C)   Employment practices. 
      (1)   To ensure compliance with state and federal laws and the equal
employment opportunity requirements of the city, no person shall be employed by
the city or its departments, agencies, boards, commissions, or subunits unless
the individual has complied with any and all requirements of the Department of
Personnel.
      (2)   (a)   The City Controller shall pay no person until all
requirements have been met.
         (b)   Further, the Personnel Department is hereby authorized and
empowered to issue regulations to ensure compliance with position descriptions
and the salary and wage ordinance submitted annually by the Mayor and adopted
by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.006) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.092 DATA PROCESSING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Data Processing Department shall provide computer applications and
services that are necessary for the various departments to conduct the business
of the city.
   (B)   The Department shall also be responsible for the acquisition and
maintenance of any and all computer equipment, software, and associated devices
owned and operated by the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.007) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.093 DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC AND BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT.
   The Department of Economic and Business Development shall be responsible for
assisting industrial and commercial business within the city by providing
financial incentives, information, and other economic development resources.
The Department shall function in support of the Economic Development Commission
in accordance with statutes and ordinances applicable thereto. The Department
shall have other powers and duties as prescribed by ordinance or statute and
shall provide other duties as assigned by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 32.022) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.094 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   The Department shall have power and authority as authorized by the
applicable statutes of state.
   (B)   The Department shall provide public transportation services for the
citizens of the city and is hereby authorized to enter into agreements with
other municipal corporations and/or governmental or quasi-governmental agencies
to provide services.
   (C)   The Department is also authorized to apply for and receive state and
federal assistance, subject to authorization by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
(Prior Code, § 32.030) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.095 DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION, GENERALLY.
   The Department of Parks and Recreation shall have powers, duties, and
responsibilities as set forth by the I.C. 36-10-3 et seq., and any resolutions
adopted by the Board of Park and Recreation Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 32.031) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
§ 32.096 PORT AUTHORITY (MARINA FACILITY).
   The City Port Authority shall be organized and have powers and authority as
conveyed by ordinance adopted by this Common Council under Ord. 0-99-0027. The
ordinance shall remain in full force and effect.
(Prior Code, § 32.032) (Ord. 0-00-0003, passed 2-18-2000)
HEALTH DEPARTMENT
§ 32.110 CREATED.
   The city shall have a full-time Health Department under the charge of the
Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 32.050)
§ 32.111 CLERK OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is created the position of Clerk of the Department of Health.
The Clerk shall be appointed by the City Health Officer, subject to
confirmation by the Board.
   (B)   The Clerk shall prepare the clerical work of the Board of Health and
shall perform other duties which may be assigned by the City Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 32.051)
§ 32.112 CLERK-INTERPRETER.
   The position of Clerk-Interpreter is created in the Health Department in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 32.052)
§ 32.113 HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Board of Health, with the approval
of the State Board of Health, to appoint a full-time City Health Officer who
meets the minimum qualifications of the State Board. He or she shall be a
citizen of the United States and shall hold an unlimited license to practice
medicine in the state. The City Health Officer shall devote full time to the
duties of his or her office and shall not engage in private medical practice,
nor engage actively in any business. The Health Officer shall be appointed for
a term of four years, unless sooner removed for cause in the manner provided by
law.
      (2)   The City Health Officer may be a member of and in the employ of the
Board of Health. The City Health Officer shall give bond in the sum as the
Board of Health shall determine upon and require.
(Prior Code, § 32.053)
   (B)   Powers and duties. The City Health Officer shall:
      (1)   Serve as the Secretary of the City Board of Health when it is in
session and as the executive officer of the Board of Health when it is not in
session;
      (2)   Exercise all the powers provided by law and enforce all the rules
and regulations of the City Board of Health, the State Board of Health and the
provisions of this code;
      (3)   Provide for the proper registration of births and deaths and other
vital statistics which this code, the law, the City Board of Health and the
State Board of Health may require; and issue certified copies of birth and
death certificates to proper persons subject to the required conditions;
      (4)   Make or order all necessary sanitary surveys and inspections;
      (5)   Appoint and employ professional, clerical and other employees as
may be necessary and reasonable to carry out and perform the duties of the
Health Department;
      (6)   Administer and enforce provisions of this code relating to
sanitation of all buildings both public and private, affecting the community,
except the matters as are required to be administered and enforced by others;
      (7)   Cause all nuisances affecting the health of the public to be abated
with all reasonable promptness;
      (8)   Establish quarantines and, in connection therewith, order what is
reasonable and necessary for prevention and suppression of disease;
      (9)   Close churches and schools and forbid public gatherings in order to
prevent and stop epidemics, and act in all reasonable and necessary ways to
protect the public health;
      (10)   Keep minutes of all Board meetings and all the records of the
Board in his or her office at the City Hall, including full and permanent
records of his or her public health work which may be required by law,
including monthly reports to the City Board which shall be subsequently
permanently recorded and shall keep and transmit all other records required by
the city, state, and the United States public health services;
      (11)   Equip and maintain suitable offices, laboratory, facilities, and
appliances in the City Hall; and
      (12)   Report all important or material matters requiring their
respective attention to the Board of Health, the Mayor, and the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.054)
§ 32.114 INSIGNIA AND POLICE POWERS OF HEALTH OFFICERS, INSPECTORS, AND THE
LIKE.
   The City Health Officer, City Chemist, and Inspectors of Health may, when on
duty outside their respective offices, carry a metallic star, inscribed with
suitable words, which shall be supplied by and be the property of the city.
They shall each have power, on demand therefor, to require the aid, assistance,
or presence of any police officer in the performance of any duty required by
the provisions of this code, by law, or by rules of the Boards of Health, and
shall have full power to perform all the duties and have all the powers of
special police officers for enforcing health regulations, and may arrest, with
or without warrant, any person they find violating any of the health provisions
of this code.
(Prior Code, § 32.055)
§ 32.115 INSPECTION POWERS AND RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The City Health Officer or his or her inspectors, assistants, or
deputies shall have full power, at all times, to enter every building, factory,
or portion thereof occupied, used, or suspected of being occupied or used for
the production for sale, manufacture and sale, processing, storage, sale,
disposition, or transportation of food; and to inspect the premises and all
utensils, fixtures, furniture, and machinery used therein. If violations of law
or this code are found they shall report the violation to the prosecuting
attorney or the City Attorney.
   (B)   The City Health Officer and any persons acting to enter into and
examine at any proper time, after due notice, all buildings, lots, and places
of all descriptions, either public or private, within the city for the purpose
of ascertaining the condition thereof for the possible presence, source, and
cause of disease, so far as the pubic health may be thereby affected, whenever
in their judgment they shall deem it necessary.
   (C)   No person, shall either by himself, herself, or by an agent, prevent
or hinder the City Health Officer or anyone acting under him or her from
carrying out the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 32.056)
§ 32.116 CHIEF HEALTH INSPECTOR AND HEALTH INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There are created the positions of Chief Health Inspector and Health
Inspector.
   (B)   The Chief Health Inspector shall be a person who shall have had at
least five years’ experience in handling animals, meats, game, fish, poultry,
milk, and other food and dairy products.
   (C)   The Health Inspectors shall be appointed by the City Health Officer
subject to confirmation by the Board of Health.
   (D)   The Inspectors shall devote their full time to the work of the
Department.
   (E)   The Chief and other City Health Inspectors under him or her shall be
under the general supervision and orders of the City Health Officer and in
addition shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Take frequent and careful samples of milk and dairy products, and
of the city water supply and water from the swimming pools and beaches and
deliver them to the city chemist for tests;
      (2)   Make careful examinations of all places and utensils where foods,
liquors, and beverages are sold including hotels, inns, taverns, restaurants,
soda fountains, stores, and other places where food, liquors, and beverages are
sold or served;
      (3)   Inspect all streets, alleys, vacant lots, yards, and outbuildings,
and other public places in matters concerning their sanitary condition;
      (4)   Inspect all public buildings as to their ventilation, plumbing, and
general sanitary conditions;
      (5)   Enter markets, stores, packing houses, or any place where food
products are stored, held for sale, or offered for sale, and inspect any
vehicle transporting meat, fish, game, or poultry from one point to another or
through the city;
      (6)   Enter and examine ice houses and refrigerators in hotels,
restaurants, and boarding houses; and
      (7)   Enter and examine, under the orders of the City Health Officer, any
dairy farm or milk products plant.
(Prior Code, § 32.057)
§ 32.117 PUBLIC HEALTH NURSES.
   (A)   There is created the position of full-time City Public Health Nurse.
The City Public Health Nurses shall be persons of vigorous health, of high
ideals, legally qualified and suitably trained in sanitary science, and their
qualifications shall be satisfactory to the state Board of Health.
   (B)   There shall be appointed by the City Health Officer subject to
confirmation by the City Board of Health.
   (C)   City Public Health Nurses shall devote their entire time to the duties
of their positions in protecting and supervising the general health and
sanitation of the city, and they shall perform duties in relation thereto as
may be prescribed by law, by this chapter, the City Health Officer, and the
rules and regulations of the City and State Boards of Health.
(Prior Code, § 32.058)
§ 32.118 BABY CLINIC DOCTOR.
   (A)   There is created the position of baby clinic doctor. The baby clinic
doctor shall be a physician duly licensed to practice medicine in the state
with qualifications satisfactory to the State Board of Health. He or she shall
be appointed by the City Health Officer subject to confirmation by the City
Board of Health.
   (B)   He or she shall perform duties in relation to his or her position
which are assigned by the City Health Officer, by law or this chapter, or by
the rules and regulations of the Boards of Health. He or she shall also study
all conditions which affect infant and child life in the city from both a
sociological and public health point of view and shall make recommendations to
the Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 32.059)
§ 32.119 VENEREAL DISEASE DOCTOR.
   (A)   There is created the position of venereal clinic doctor.
   (B)   The venereal clinic doctor shall be a physician duly licensed to
practice medicine in the state with qualifications satisfactory to the State
Board of Health. He or she shall be appointed by the Health Officer subject to
confirmation by the State Board of Health.
   (C)   He or she shall perform duties in relation to his or her position
which are assigned by the City Health Officer, by law, by this code, or by the
rules and regulations of the Boards of Health.
(Prior Code, § 32.060)
§ 32.120 AUTHORIZED ASSISTANTS, EMPLOYEES, AND PUBLIC HEALTH PERSONNEL.
   (A)   All assistants, employees, and other public health personnel
authorized by the Board of Health shall meet the minimum qualifications
provided by the State Board of Health, shall be appointed by the City Health
Officer subject to confirmation by the Board of Health and their compensation
shall be fixed by the Board of Health and shall be provided in the annual
budget.
   (B)   Public health personnel shall devote their full time to the duties of
their respective positions in protecting and supervising the general health and
sanitation and in performing their prescribed duties.
(Prior Code, § 32.061)
§ 32.121 CITY CHEMIST.
   (A)   There is created the position of City Chemist. The City Chemist shall
be appointed by the City Health Officer, subject to confirmation by the Board.
The City Chemist shall be a person skilled in the science of analytical
chemistry and bacteriology.
   (B)   The City Chemist shall devote his or her entire time to the work of
the Board of Health, shall be in charge of the bacteriological laboratory of
the city and shall perform other duties which the City Health Officer shall,
from time to time, prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 32.062)
§ 32.122 CHEMICAL AND BACTERIOLOGICAL LABORATORY.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Health shall provide for, establish, and maintain a
city chemical and bacteriological laboratory.
      (2)   The laboratory shall be used for the protection of public health
and the suppression of disease, the analyses of the water and milk supplies of
the city, the analyses of meat, foods, drugs, utensils, ice, beverages, the
water at the beaches and swimming pools and other matters affecting the public
health which the City Health Officer may deem necessary. A record shall be kept
of analyses made.
   (B)   Whenever tests indicate that there have been violations of this code,
of rules or regulations of the Board of Health, or of law or that the public
health is endangered, the necessary steps shall be taken for prosecution for
violations.
(Prior Code, § 32.063)
§ 32.123 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   Appointment, qualifications, and terms of office of members.
      (1)   The Board of Health shall be composed of seven members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor.
      (2)   Not less than three members shall be physicians holding an
unlimited license to practice medicine in the state. After the first
appointees, the terms of the members shall be for four years as provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 32.064)
   (B)   Election of officers; meetings; rules and regulations. The City Board
of Health shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson in October of each
year and shall hold regular meetings at least quarterly, in January, April,
July, and October and special meetings on written requests of three members or
on request of the Health Officer and may adopt its own rules with regard to
meetings and other matters, which shall not be contrary to any provisions of
law or of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 32.065)
   (C)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Board of Health shall direct and prescribe the duties and fix
the compensation of the City Health Officer and other employees of the Health
Department and shall approve the legal and proper claims of the Health
Department.
      (2)   The City Board of Health is authorized and directed to take action,
issue regulations, and enforce the same as, in its judgment, may be necessary
or proper to carry out its duties as provided by law, the rules and regulations
of the State Board of Health, and of this code.
      (3)   The Board shall have power to adopt measures and rules or
regulations which may be necessary or advisable for the conservation of the
public health of the inhabitants of the city or in relation of the sanitary
conditions of the city and for the prevention and suppression of disease, which
are not inconsistent with the regulations of the State Board of Health.
      (3)   The Board, with a view toward preservation of the public health,
shall give to the Mayor and other city officials all public professional advice
and information as the officials may require.
      (4)   The Board shall publish an annual report, as provided by this
section and other law and, with the approval of the Mayor, may publish the
statistical information concerning its work relating to the health of the
community or methods and means of preventing and curing disease as it shall
deem proper for publication.
      (5)   The Board shall investigate the existence of and enforce the laws
and regulations necessary to prevent and control the spread of communicable or
infectious diseases which are dangerous to public health and shall make all
necessary sanitary and health investigations and inspections and shall act to
conserve the public health whenever a public emergency exists.
      (6)   The Board shall appoint a full-time City Health Officer, subject to
approval of the State Board of Health.
      (7)   The Board shall confirm the appointment of the professional
employees who are appointed by the Health Officer and who meet the
qualification requirements of the State Board of Health.
      (8)   The Board shall collect fees which shall be reported weekly, be
sent to the City Controller and become part of the General Fund, except as may
be otherwise provided.
      (9)   The Board shall submit, at the time of the preparation of the
municipal budget, an annual itemized estimate of the amount of money estimated
for expenditures for the Department of Public Health for the following year.
      (10)   The Board shall request appropriations from the Common Council for
venereal disease prevention and control programs.
      (11)   The Board of Health shall keep a record of all of its
transactions, which record shall be kept at its office in the City Hall.
(Prior Code, § 32.066)
§ 32.124 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE.
   (A)   Established. There is established, pursuant to I.C. 16-31-5, the City
Emergency Medical Service.
(Prior Code, § 32.175)
   (B)   Health Department division. The City Emergency Medical Service shall
be a division of the City Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 32.176)
   (C)   Fee schedule for ambulance service. The following schedule for
ambulance user fees is hereby established.
      (1)   Fees.
         (a)   The fee for basic life support (BLS) ambulance service (BLS)
shall be an amount as set by the city from time to time.
         (b)   The fee for advance life support (ALS) ambulance service shall
be an amount as set by the city from time to time.
         (c)   A nonresident fee in an amount as set by the city from time to
time shall be assessed when applicable.
         (d)   A nontransport fee shall be assessed in an amount as set by the
city from time to time for all calls for ambulance service where:
            1.   The City Fire Department provides any type of medical
treatment; and
            2.   The patient declines transportation thereafter.
         (e)   A mileage charge shall be assessed for all calls for ambulance
service in an amount as set by the city from time to time per patient loaded
mile and fraction over one-tenth thereof.
      (2)   Collection.
         (a)   The funds shall be collected at the direction of the Chief
Fiscal Officer of the city.
         (b)   1.   The Law Department, or a full time employee of the Chief
Fiscal Office, is authorized to initiate collections actions for the ambulance
fees as well as well as medical bills and EMS bills for inmates/detainees in
the custody of the city’s Police Department or in the city’s jail.
            2.   This includes, among other things, filing suit in City Court
for the collection and for an arrangement for reasonable installment payments.
         (c)   That all inmates/detainees while in the custody of the City
Police Department, or in the city’s jail, be individually responsible for their
own medical bills for medical treatment, including EMS, while in the custody of
the Police Department or in the city’s jail.
         (d)   That if there has been a payment to the city by either a private
insurance company for the EMS run, or by a government program, the bill shall
be considered paid and that no additional collection efforts will be made on
the unpaid balance.
      (3)   Allocation. Money so collected shall be allocated to the city’s
General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 32.177)
(Ord. 3225, passed - -1979; Ord. 0-07-0030, passed 9-24-2007; Ord. 09-0002,
passed 2-9-2009; Ord. 12-0011, passed 4-9-2012)
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 32.135 CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Department of Public Parks and the Board of Park Commissioners are
abolished and there is created and established in lieu thereof and in their
stead a Department of Parks and Recreation, pursuant to the provisions of I.C.
36-10-3.
   (B)   The Department of Parks and Recreation shall be composed of a Board of
Parks and Recreation, a Superintendent, and other personnel as the Board of
Parks and Recreation may determine.
(Prior Code, § 32.080)
§ 32.136 APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of I.C. 36-10-3, pertaining to Parks and Recreation Boards
and Commissions, are declared to be of full force and effect for the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.081)
§ 32.137 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall be composed of four members,
who shall be appointed by the Mayor, no more than two of the members shall be
from the same political party.
   (B)   Upon the establishment of the Board, the terms of the members
initially appointed shall be one, two, three, and four years, as specified by
the Mayor.
   (C)   (1)   Thereafter, as a term expires, each new member shall be
appointed for a four-year term, except in case of an appointee filling an
unexpired term.
      (2)   All terms shall expire on the first Monday in January, but an
appointee shall continue in office until his or her successor is appointed.
(Prior Code, § 32.082)
§ 32.138 POWERS.
   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall have the general and special powers
and the administrative authority as set forth and conferred upon it under the
provisions of state law.
(Prior Code, § 32.083)
§ 32.139 SPECIAL NONREVERTING CAPITAL FUND.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   There is created, under the control of the Board of Parks and
Recreation, a special nonreverting capital fund for the purpose of acquiring
land or making specific capital improvements.
      (2)   The Common Council may include, from year to year, in the annual
budget of the Department of Parks and Recreation, an item and appropriation for
these specific purposes.
(Prior Code, § 32.084)
   (B)   Withdrawal of funds. Money placed in the nonreverting capital fund
shall not be withdrawn except for the purposes for which the Fund was created,
unless the Common Council shall repeal this provision and abolish the Fund.
(Prior Code, § 32.085)
REDEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 32.150 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   There is established a Department of Redevelopment as a department of
the city pursuant to the laws of the state. The Department shall have all
powers and perform all duties assigned and delegated to the Redevelopment
Departments by the laws of the state and this code and other ordinances of the
city.
   (B)   The Department shall have a Board of five Commissioners who shall be
appointed by the City Redevelopment Trustees in a manner and for a term as
prescribed by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 32.115)
§ 32.151 CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   There is created a Board of five members to be known as the City
Redevelopment Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 32.116)
§ 32.152 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF OFFICE OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to select two members of the Board of
Redevelopment Trustees, one member to serve for a term of three years and one
member to serve for a term of four years, the terms to commence with the date
of the appointments.
   (B)   The judge of the Circuit Court of the county is requested and
authorized to nominate one member of the Board of Redevelopment Trustees who
shall be appointed for a term of two years from the date of the appointment.
   (C)   The President of the Common Council is authorized to nominate two
members of the Board of Redevelopment Trustees: one who shall be appointed for
a term of one year and one for a term of four years from the date of the
appointments.
(Prior Code, § 32.117)
COMMISSIONS
§ 32.165 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Created; composition. There is created an Economic Development
Commission for the city, to be known as the City Economic Development
Commission, which shall consist of and be under the control of a Board of three
members.
(Prior Code, § 32.130)
   (B)   Appointment. The members of the Economic Development Commission shall
be appointed by the Mayor of the city as follows: one of the members so
appointed shall be selected by the Mayor, one shall be nominated by the County
Council; and one shall be nominated by the Common Council. The nominations made
by the County Council and the Common Council shall be transmitted to the Mayor
in writing.
(Prior Code, § 32.131)
   (C)   Terms of office, successors, and compensation of members. The
Commissioners shall take office upon their appointment and their terms shall
run the following number of years from February 1 following the original
appointment: the Commissioner nominated by the Common Council, two years; the
Commissioner nominated by the County Council, one year; and the Commissioner
selected by the Mayor, three years. At the expiration of the respective terms
of each of the Commissioners originally appointed, the respective successor
shall be selected and nominated in the same manner as the original appointee,
each of which nominees shall be appointed by the Mayor within ten days after
receiving the nominations and each succeeding member shall serve for a term of
four years. In the event any person appointed as Commissioner shall fail to
qualify within ten days after the mailing to him or her of the notice of his or
her appointment, or if any member after qualifying shall die, resign, or vacate
the office or be removed, a new member shall be chosen and appointed to fill
the vacancy in the same manner as provided for the member in respect to whom
the vacancy occurs, and the member so chosen and appointed shall serve for the
remainder of the vacated term. Commissioners shall hold over after the
expiration of their terms until their respective successors have been duly
appointed and have qualified. The Commissioner shall receive no salary but
shall be entitled to reimbursement for any expenses necessarily incurred in the
performance of their duties and shall be entitled to a per diem allowance in an
amount as set by the city from time to time for each day that he or she shall
attend a Commission meeting.
(Prior Code, § 32.132)
   (D)   Qualifications of members. No person shall be appointed as an Economic
Development Commissioner who is neither a resident of nor employed in the city
nor an owner of a business in the city. If any Commissioner shall cease to
qualify in one of the above categories, his or her appointment on the Economic
Development Commission shall thereby terminate and his or her office shall
become vacant.
(Prior Code, § 32.133)
   (E)   Bond issuance; cost of operation; fee limit. Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-12-
29, as effective April 9, 1979, a Commission may provide for a maximum fee of
1% of the total amount of a bond issue to be paid from the proceeds of the
issue to help in covering its cost of operation. However, the fee charged by a
Commission to cover the cost of operation may not exceed an amount as set by
the city from time to time per issue.
(Prior Code, § 32.134)
   (F)   Commission levy authority; amount to be paid. Pursuant to the above
authority, the City Economic Development Commission is authorized and directed
to levy a commission of one-tenth of 1% of the total amount of the issue of
bonds authorized by the Commission to be paid from the proceeds of the issue to
cover cost of operation.
(Prior Code, § 32.135)
   (G)   Fee issuance limitation. The Commission is authorized and directed to
limit the amount collected to an amount as set by the city from time to time
per issue.
(Prior Code, § 32.136)
   (H)   Collection; fund established. The one-tenth of 1% of the issue, with a
maximum of an amount as set by the city from time to time, shall be collected
by the City Controller and placed in a special fund to be established and
called the Economic Development Commission Fund.
(Prior Code, § 32.137)
   (I)   Funds appropriated not to exceed funds received as proceeds. In no
event shall those funds appropriated and spent exceed those funds which are
received by the City Controller as proceeds of the bond issues.
(Prior Code, § 32.138)
   (J)   Revolving fund designation. The fund, mentioned in division (H) above
shall be considered a revolving fund and shall not revert to the General Fund
at the close of any calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 32.139)
   (K)   Executive director. The Business Development Director shall serve as
the executive director of the Economic Development Commission at no additional
salary.
(Prior Code, § 32.140)
(Ord. 3233, passed - -1979; Ord. 3267, passed - -1981; Ord. 3269, passed - -
1981; Ord. 3428, passed - -1986)
§ 32.166 CITY PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment and continuation. The city is authorized to continue the
City Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 32.155)
   (B)   Composition; qualifications, appointment, and terms of office of
members.
      (1)   The City Plan Commission shall consist of nine members. Five of the
members shall be citizens of the city who shall be qualified by knowledge or
experience to act in matters pertaining to the development of a city plan, who
shall not hold any other office in the city government and who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, the remaining four members shall be chosen as follows:
one member shall be a member of the Common Council to be selected by it; one
member shall be a member of the Board of Parks and Recreation to be selected by
the Board; one member shall be the President of the Board of Public Works and
Safety; and one member shall be the City Engineer. The terms of the
representatives from the Common Council and the Board of Parks and Recreation
shall expire with the termination of their respective terms of office.
      (2)   The citizen members of the City Plan Commission shall hold office
for the term provided by law. The expiration date of each appointment shall be
shown in the certificate of appointment.
(Prior Code, § 32.156)
   (C)   Election of officers; office space; records; annual reports; meetings.
      (1)   The City Plan Commission shall choose, annually at its first
regular meeting in February, one of its members to act as president of the City
Plan Commission, and another of its members as Vice-President during his or her
absence or disability. The City Plan Commission shall have a suitable office
provided for it by the proper city authorities, where it may hold its meetings
and where its maps, plans, documents, and accounts shall be kept subject to
public inspection at all reasonable times. On or before the February 1 of each
year, the City Plan Commission shall make a report to the Mayor of its
proceedings with a full statement of its receipts, disbursements, and the
progress of its work for the preceding calendar year. A majority of the members
shall constitute a quorum, but no action of the City Plan Commission shall be
binding unless authorized by a majority of the City Plan Commission at a
regular or duly called special meeting thereof. The City Plan Commission shall
fix a time for holding regular meetings thereof, but a special meeting may be
called at any time by the President or by two members upon written request to
the Secretary. Written notices shall be mailed by the Secretary to all members
at least two days before a special meeting advising them of the time of the
meeting; provided, that if the time of a special meeting shall have been fixed
at a regular meeting, or if all members of the City Plan Commission are present
at a special meeting, then notice shall not be required.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall keep and maintain all records, including
all first flood elevation certificates, plans, and other materials associated
with any permit or variance issued in a Floodway District, Floodway Fringe
District, or Floodplain District.
      (3)   The Plan Commission shall notify the FIA of all permits issued in
the floodway district concerning watercourse alteration. In addition to
forwarding a copy of all permits to FIA, it shall require that maintenance is
provided within the altered or relocated portion of the watercourse, so that
the flood carrying capacity is not diminished.
(Prior Code, § 32.157)
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The City Plan Commission shall maintain maps, plans, and charts and
shall keep records of its proceedings which shall be open to the public. The
Commission shall have full and exclusive power to make rules and regulations
for the proper management and government of the City Plan Commission, subject
to limitations provided by law.
      (2)   The City Plan Commission shall also have full power and authority
to make or cause to be made the recommendations, surveys, studies, maps, plans,
or charts of the whole or any part of the city, including streets, alleys,
viaducts, wharves, parks, parkways, public buildings, or the routing of transit
lines and other related matters.
      (3)   The City Plan Commission shall have power to prepare and submit to
the Common Council a zoning ordinance to make the investigations, studies, and
reports to the Common Council on housing conditions in the city as it may, from
time to time, deem necessary, and to accompany its report with recommendations
and to perform other duties as may be delegated to or required of it by this
code or ordinances of the Common Council with reference to enforcement thereof.
      (4)   The City Plan Commission shall consider and report its decisions
regarding requested changes in the zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 32.158)
   (E)   Requests for information. All city officers shall, when requested by
the Mayor or the City Plan Commission, cooperate and furnish pertinent
ordinances, plans, maps, and other pertinent information.
(Prior Code, § 32.159)
   (F)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (1)   The City Plan Commission shall act as, shall be and shall have all
rights, powers, and duties of the Board of Zoning Appeals, as provided by law
or this code.
      (2)   Any reference to the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be considered as
having been made to the City Plan Commission.
(Prior Code, § 32.160)
   (G)   Employees.
      (1)   The City Plan Commission may recommend the hiring of suggested
employees to the Mayor. The Mayor shall have exclusive power to employ
assistants who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor, but under the
direction of the City Plan Commission.
      (2)   No person shall be employed for the Commission unless provision has
been made for compensation.
(Prior Code, § 32.161)
   (H)   Expenses; vouchers. 
      (1)   The Common Council shall in the annual budget appropriate from the
General Fund of the city for the payment of the expenses of the City Plan
Commission.
      (2)   All vouchers of the City Plan Commission shall be signed by the
President or Vice-President and Secretary.
(Prior Code, § 32.162)
(Ord. 3241, passed - -1979; Ord. 3256, passed - -1980)
§ 32.167 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   Created.
      (1)   There is created a Public Transportation Corporation.
      (2)   It shall be a distinct municipal corporation to be known as the
City Public Transportation Corporation.
(Prior Code, § 32.190)
   (B)   Jurisdictional boundaries. The jurisdictional boundaries of the City
Public Transportation Corporation shall be coterminous with the boundaries of
the city and as much of the suburban area as will be served by the Public
Transportation Corporation.
(Prior Code, § 32.191)
   (C)   Board of Directors; composition; appointment of members. The Board of
Directors of the City Public Transportation Corporation shall consist of six
members, three of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor and three by the Common
Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.192)
   (D)   Board of Directors; terms of office of members. One of the members
appointed by the Mayor shall be appointed for a term of one year, one for a
term of two years, and one for a term of three years. One of the members
appointed by the Common Council shall be appointed for a term of two years, one
for a term of three years, and one for a term of four years.
(Prior Code, § 32.193)
   (E)   Board of Directors; election of chairperson and secretary; meetings.
The election of a Chairperson and Secretary of the Board of Directors and the
meetings of the Board of Directors of the City Public Transportation
Corporation shall be governed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 32.194)
   (F)   State law to govern operations generally. The manner of operation of
the City Public Transportation Corporation, including as an example and not by
way of exclusion, the introduction and adoption of ordinances, the appointment
of a Controller for the City Public Transportation Corporation, the powers of
the Board of Directors of the City Public Transportation Corporation, the
acquisition of funds for the City Public Transportation Corporation, and the
issuance of bonds for the City Public Transportation Corporation, shall be
governed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 32.195)
§ 32.168 REFERRAL JOB BANK COMMISSION.
   (A)   Created. There is created in the city an City Referral Job Bank
Commission for the purpose of referring qualified local residents for
employment in the city, its various city departments, political subdivisions,
and by contractors entering into public contracts falling under the local
hiring ordinance codified in §§
37.001 through
37.008.
(Prior Code, § 32.255)
   (B)   Members; appointment.
      (1)   The Commission shall be made up of three persons appointed by the
Mayor. The Commission shall be established within 15 days upon the passage of
the ordinance codified in this chapter.
      (2)   The members shall serve without pay.
      (3)   The Commission shall remain in existence until the time the City
Council may establish within the city a Personnel Department.
      (4)   Upon the establishment of a Personnel Department, the functions,
duties, and responsibilities of the Commission will be merged into the
Personnel Department and the Commission shall cease to exist.
(Prior Code, § 32.256)
   (C)   Members; duties.
      (1)   The Commission shall be responsible for making and maintaining a
current list of job applications from the city’s citizens desiring local
employment.
      (2)   The Commission in conjunction with all trade and craft unions shall
establish a system to certify job applicants’ qualifications to perform any
trade or craft skilled or nonskilled job.
      (3)   The Commission shall inform and assist in referring and enrolling
any job applicant in the trade and craft training programs available in the
geographical county area.
(Prior Code, § 32.257)
(Ord. 3443, passed - -1986)
§ 32.169 WOMEN’S COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Commission shall be to ensure women who
are residents of the city the full realization of their rights as citizens.
(Prior Code, § 32.270)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the
present tense include the future, words used in the plural number include the
singular number, and words used in the singular number include the plural
number. The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      COMMISSION. The City Women’s Commission, as created in this subchapter.
      COMMISSIONER. Any duly appointed member of the City Women’s Commission.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the City Women’s Commission.
      PERSON. Includes one or more individuals.
(Prior Code, § 32.271)
   (C)   Creation; membership and staff.
      (1)   There is established in the city the City Women’s Commission to
carry out the provisions of this subchapter. The Commission shall consist of no
less than 15 and no more than 21 members. All the members of the Commission
shall be appointed by the Mayor based on the recommendations from the
Commission, subject to approval by the Common Council.
      (2)   All Commissioners appointed under the authority of the Mayor, whose
terms have not expired, shall continue to serve for the term of their
appointment. Thereafter, the term of service shall be three years. Each member
of the Commission shall continue to serve until reappointed or until a
successor is appointed.
      (3)   Failure of any Commissioner to attend three public meetings without
a valid excuse in a calendar year period shall constitute an automatic
resignation from the Commission. A valid excuse may include: death, illness,
vacation, family emergency, infrequent employment related absences, and
conflicts in class enrollments.
      (4)   Upon the death or resignation of any Commissioner, a successor
shall be appointed by the Mayor based on the recommendation of the Commission,
subject to approval by the Common Council, to serve the unexpired term.
      (5)   Any resignation shall be in writing to the Mayor with a copy to the
Chairperson of the Commission.
      (6)   The members of the Commission shall serve without compensation,
however, they may be reimbursed for expenses necessarily incurred in the
performance of their duties in accordance with appropriations made by the
Common Council.
      (7)   The Commission shall have the authority to appoint and terminate a
director and other staff as may be authorized by the Common Council, subject to
approval by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 32.272)
   (D)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   (a)   The Commission shall elect one of its members as Chairperson
and may elect other officers and appoint committees and advisory committees as
it may deem necessary to carry out its responsibilities.
         (b)   The Commission shall meet at least once each month and may hold
special meetings as the Chairperson or the Commission deems necessary.
         (c)   A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. No official action shall be taken by
the Commission except by an affirmative vote of a majority of members present.
      (2)   The Commission shall have the following powers, duties, and
responsibilities:
         (a)   Create public awareness and understanding of responsibilities,
needs, contributions, and the potential of women as homemakers, workers, and
active participants in community life, and of the importance of each of these
roles in the changing society; and to combat sex stereotyping in each of these
roles;
         (b)   Act as a central clearing house and coordinating body for
governmental and non-governmental activities and information relating to the
status of women;
         (c)   Maintain contracts with the appropriate local, state, federal,
and international agencies concerned with the status of women;
         (d)   Cooperate with and encourage participation among the various
agencies, organizations, units of government, and the community in the programs
and conferences of the Commission;
         (e)   Seek improvement in:
            1.   Public and private employment policies and practices within
the city in regard to women;
            2.   State labor laws pertaining to hours, wages, and working
conditions of women;
            3.   Legal rights of women in regard to political and civic
responsibilities, property rights, and family relations; and
            4.   Policies and practices with respect to education and
counseling of women for nonstereotyped roles.
         (f)   Seek new and expanded services for women as individuals, wives,
mothers, and workers;
         (g)   Recommend legislative and administrative action, equal
treatment, and opportunities for women;
         (h)   Submit an annual report with recommendations to the Mayor and
the Common Council; and
         (i)   Establish by-laws as the Commission may deem necessary to carry
out its powers, duties, and responsibilities not inconsistent with this
subchapter. The by-laws may include but is not limited to addressing the
following:
            1.   Rules and procedures of regular and special meetings;
            2.   Creation of standing, advisory, or other committees;
            3.   Rules and procedures for election of officers;
            4.   Duties and powers of officers and committees;
            5.   Selection criteria and procedures relating to prospective
Commission and staff members;
            6.   Policy relating to excused absences and leave of absences;
            7.   By-law amendment procedure; and
            8.   Any other related matters.
(Prior Code, § 32.273)
(Ord. 3538, passed - -1991)
DATA SYSTEM
§ 32.180 CREATED.
   There is created under the State Cooperative Agreements Laws (I.C. 36-1.5-
5), a data processing system, in the city, to be known as the City Data System.
(Prior Code, § 32.210) (Ord. 3288, passed - -1981)
§ 32.181 DATA SYSTEM BOARD.
   (A)   Appointment; term. 
      (1)   The City Data System shall be managed by a three-member Board, to
be known as, the City Data System Board.
      (2)   Not less than one of the individuals selected by the Mayor shall be
considered and recognized as an expert in the field of data processing and
computer science. Members of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor and
serve upon confirmation by the Common Council.
      (3)   The first member appointed shall serve a term commencing from the
date of Mayoral approval of the ordinance codified in this chapter until
December 31, 1982, the second member appointed shall serve a term commencing
from the date of Mayoral approval of the ordinance codified in this chapter
until December 31, 1983, the third member appointed shall serve a term
commencing from the date of Mayoral approval of the ordinance codified in this
chapter until December 31, 1984, and their successors shall be appointed for
terms of three years each.
(Prior Code, § 32.211)
   (B)   Compensation. Compensation for the Data System Board shall be an
amount equal to that received by members of the City Board of Public Works and
Safety.
(Prior Code, § 32.212)
   (C)   Management authority. 
      (1)   The Data System Board shall have exclusive authority regarding
management and direction of employees of the data system. The Data System Board
shall also manage the scheduling of use of the system by the various
participating users of the system, and subject to confirmation by the Common
Council, the Data System Board shall have the authority to establish rates for
usage of the system.
      (2)   The Data System Board shall, from time to time as the Data System
Board deems necessary, make suggestions and/or requests of the City Board of
Public Works and Safety for the purchase of additional computer hardware for
the city data processing system.
      (3)   Except in cases of declared emergency, the City Board of Public
Works and Safety shall be without authority to make any purchases of equipment
hardware for application to the City Data System.
(Prior Code, § 32.213)
(Ord. 3288, passed - -1981)
§ 32.182 RATE ADJUSTMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Data System Board shall have the power and authority to adjust rates on
a semi-annual basis on or before each June 15 and December 15.
(Prior Code, § 32.214) (Ord. 3288, passed - -1981)
§ 32.183 RATE APPLICABILITY.
   The rates as established by the Data System Board shall be applicable
immediately upon confirmation by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.215) (Ord. 3288, passed - -1981)
§ 32.184 FUNDS; MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The City Controller shall receive, disburse, and account for all funds of
the City Data System.
(Prior Code, § 32.216) (Ord. 3288, passed - -1981)
§ 32.185 DATA SYSTEM REVOLVING FUND.
   (A)   Created. There is created a Data System Revolving Fund.
(Prior Code, § 32.217)
   (B)   Source of funds. Any and all revenues and fees received for use of the
data system shall be made payable directly to the City Data System Revolving
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 32.218)
(Ord. 3288, passed - -1981)
§ 32.186 DATA PROCESSING DEPARTMENT TO REMAIN INDEPENDENT OF DATA SYSTEM.
   There shall remain, within the General Fund of the city, a Data Processing
Department, which shall be independent of the data system.
(Prior Code, § 32.219) (Ord. 3288, passed - -1981)
§ 32.187 DATA SYSTEM USERS.
   The City Data Processing Department shall be a user in the same manner as
other users of the City Data System.
(Prior Code, § 32.220) (Ord. 3288, passed - -1981)
CABLE COMMUNICATIONS ADVISORY BOARD
§ 32.200 CREATED.
   (A)   There is created the City Cable Communications Advisory Board.
   (B)   (1)   The Board shall be comprised of seven members. The Mayor shall
appoint five people to the Board; one appointee shall be the Administration’s
Public Information Officer who shall serve as Chairperson. The Common Council
members shall appoint one member to the Board.
      (2)   The School Board shall appoint one member to the Board with the
approval of the School Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 32.285) (Ord. 0-99-0023, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 32.201 TERM.
   Board members shall serve for a term of three years, commencing January 1,
2000.
(Prior Code, § 32.286) (Ord. 0-99-0023, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 32.202 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   There shall be no appearance or existence of a conflict of interest with any
member of the Board on matters that will come before the Board for action.
(Prior Code, § 32.287) (Ord. 0-99-0023, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 32.203 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall hold one regular meeting at least quarterly.
   (B)   The Board may hold additional meetings, either regular or special, as
it may determine necessary or desirable.
(Prior Code, § 32.288) (Ord. 0-99-0023, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 32.204 QUORUM.
   Four members shall constitute a quorum of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.289) (Ord. 0-99-0023, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 32.205 ADVISORY RELATIONSHIP.
   The Board’s relationship to the Mayor, City Council, and School City of East
Chicago shall be advisory.
(Prior Code, § 32.290) (Ord. 0-99-0023, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 32.206 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall make internal rules and procedures to govern the day-
to-day operations of the Board.
   (B)   The Board shall study and advise the Mayor on the need to investigate
franchisees in order to compile data and make recommendations to the Mayor,
City Council, and School City of East Chicago regarding the extent, proper
character, and quality of cable service to be furnished to the public.
   (C)   The Board shall study and advise the Mayor of the need to engage the
contractual services of specialized consultants to assist the Board in the
proper discharge of its responsibilities.
   (D)   The Board shall study and advise the Mayor of the need for additional
regulations regarding the extent, character, and quality of cable service.
   (E)   The Board shall study and advise the Mayor regarding the need to
investigate complaints relative to the cable service of any franchise.
   (F)   The Board shall study and advise the Mayor regarding the need to
undertake studies to assess the compliance of franchisees with the terms of
their franchises.
   (G)   The Board shall study and advise the Mayor regarding the need for the
development of public, educational, and governmental access programming.
   (H)   The Board shall mediate disputes or disagreements between subscribers,
users, potential subscribers, and user, and the grantee, but only in the event
that the parties are first unable to resolve their disputes and if they agree
to mediation by the cable administrator review.
   (I)   The Board shall study and advise the Mayor, City Council, and School
City of East Chicago regarding any other matters relating to cable
communications as directed by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 32.291) (Ord. 0-99-0023, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 32.207 EXPENSES.
   The Board shall not incur expenses, hire or retain employees, nor enter into
contracts.
(Prior Code, § 32.292) (Ord. 0-99-0023, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 32.208 LEGAL COUNSEL.
   The Mayor shall assign legal counsel to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.293) (Ord. 0-99-0023, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 32.209 WRITTEN REPORT.
   Upon request, within 45 days after the end of each calendar year, the Board
shall prepare a written report to present to the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 32.294) (Ord. 0-99-0023, passed 12-1-1999)
§ 32.210 STIPEND.
   Each Board member may receive up to an amount as set by the city from time
to time a month stipend as appropriated by the City Controller’s Office.
(Prior Code, § 32.295) (Ord. 0-99-0023, passed 12-1-1999)
BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND BOARD OF PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 32.225 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Board of Public Works and a Board of
Public Safety for the city.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint a Board of Public Works and
a Board of Public Safety for the city, in accordance with I.C. 36-4-9-5.
(Ord. 10-0017, passed 11-22-2010)
§ 32.226 BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Established as head of Division of Building Inspection and Permits.
      (1)   There is continued in the city the position of Building
Commissioner of the city. The Building Commissioner shall be appointed by and
serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner shall have at least five years of
practical experience in the design, construction, and superintendence of
buildings; provided, that the time spent in the study of architecture or
engineering at a college or university of recognized standing shall, to the
extent thereof, be credited as experience.
      (3)   He or she shall be under the supervision, direction, and control of
the Board of Public Works and Safety, except when otherwise expressly ordered
by the Mayor. He or she shall be head of the Division of Building Inspection
and Permits and shall be in charge of its several bureaus, members, and
employees.
(Prior Code, § 33.035)
   (B)   Powers and duties. It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner
to:
      (1)   Examine and approve or reject all building permits in accordance
with the provisions of law and this code;
      (2)   Have charge of and enforce laws and all provisions pertaining to
the building and zoning titles and to the erection, construction, alteration,
repair, or removal of buildings or other structures;
      (3)   Perform other duties as may be imposed upon him or her by law, the
provisions of this code or the orders of the Mayor and Board of Public Works
and Safety;
      (4)   Cooperate at all times with the Department of Public Health and
charities and other departments, divisions, or bureaus of the city;
      (5)   Keep a careful record of all permits approved and rejected by him
or her for the erection or repair of any building or other structure and also
keep a record of all actions of his or her office and make reports covering the
work of the Department to the Mayor and Board of Public Works and Safety when
requested, but not less than once a year. He or she shall incorporate in the
reports a summary of his or her recommendations as to desirable amendments to
this code;
      (6)   Examine all buildings and structures in the course of erection,
alteration, or repair throughout the city, as often as practicable and see that
there has been compliance with this code and other laws;
      (7)   Examine all public school buildings, public halls and churches,
theaters, business houses, and all buildings used for manufacturing or
commercial purposes, at least, once each year for the purpose of determining
the safety of the building and structures, facilities for egress in case of
fire, and the overloading of floors;
      (8)   Issue orders to repair or wreck, under penalty of condemnation, in
the manner provided by law, all buildings and structures or parts thereof which
for want of repairs or by reason of their age or their dilapidated conditions
are unsafe and endanger life or property;
      (9)   Pass upon any question arising under any of the provisions relating
to buildings contained in this code, subject to the conditions, modifications,
and limitations contained in this code;
      (10)   Determine the value or valuation under any provisions of the code
and for a purpose he or she shall be guided by approved estimated practices;
      (11)   Attend the meetings of and assist the City Plan Commission and
Board of Zoning Appeals;
      (12)   Recommend any necessary changes in the building code;
      (13)   Perform all other unspecified duties which fall within the scope
and sphere of his or her activities;
      (14)   Review all applications for improvement location permits for new
construction or additions to existing construction to ascertain as to whether
the proposed construction lies in a flood hazard area as defined elsewhere by
ordinance. If the proposed construction or addition is found in such an area,
the Building Commissioner may require modifications to design and materials as
a Building Commissioner may deem appropriate to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure and minimize potential future flood damage;
and
      (15)   Review proposed development to assure that all necessary permits
have been received from those governmental agencies which approval is required
by any and all federal and/or state law including but not limited to § 404 of
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et
seq.
(Prior Code, § 33.036)
(Ord. 3241, passed - -1979; Ord. 3256, passed - -1980)
§ 32.227 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Divisions created. There is created in the Department of Public Works,
under the Board of Public Works and Safety, the following divisions:
      (1)   City Buildings and Bridges;
      (2)   City Engineer;
      (3)   Mechanical;
      (4)   Electric and Lights;
      (5)   Streets and Alleys; and
      (6)   Other divisions which the Board of Public Works and Safety may deem
necessary and establish or which are herein placed by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 33.050)
   (B)   Supervisor of Public Works.
      (1)   (a)   There is created, in the Department of Public Works the
position of Supervisor of Public Works. The Supervisor of Public Works shall be
appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
         (b)   He or she shall serve under the direction of the Board of Public
Works and Safety and the City Engineer and shall be in charge of the Divisions
of Streets and Alleys and Buildings and Bridges.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Supervisor of Public Works, subject to
the provisions of this code, where not otherwise provided, to:
         (a)   Take charge and superintendence of the following public
property:
            1.   Bridges, viaducts, and public grounds; and
            2.   All public buildings in the city belonging to the civil city.
         (b)   Repair, construct, improve, and maintain the public ways of the
city, except state highways;
         (c)   Superintend the cleaning, sweeping, and sprinkling of public
ways;
         (d)   Have charge of all personal and real property belonging to the
city, unless otherwise provided, and carefully keep, maintain, and preserve the
same;
         (e)   Have control and supervision of all matters relating to the
breaking of pavement, curbs, or the constructing of driveways and related
matters incident;
         (f)   Remove all obstructions in public ways in the city;
         (g)   Assist the City Health Officer in all matters pertaining to
health when related to the general scope of his or her work;
         (h)   Carry out other orders and perform duties and regulations which
the Board of Public Works and Safety designates;
         (i)   Plan and present programs to the Board of Public Works and
Safety for public works; constantly work for the improvement and efficiency in
the public works of the city; and
         (j)   Make requested reports and serve required notices.
      (3)   The Supervisor of Public Works shall keep records of all matters
pertaining to work under his or her jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 33.051)
   (C)   Mechanical Division.
      (1)   Created. There shall be a division of the Department of Public
Works known as the Mechanical Division.
(Prior Code, § 33.065)
      (2)   Master mechanic; generally; position created.
         (a)   There is created the position of master mechanic. The master
mechanic shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
         (b)   The master mechanic shall be a skilled machinist and skilled in
the operation of pumping stations, repair of pumps, motors, motor vehicles,
motorized equipment, and in the operation and maintenance of garages and repair
shops.
(Prior Code, § 33.066)
      (3)   Master mechanic; powers and duties.
         (a)   The master mechanic shall serve under the direction of the Board
of Public Works and Safety and shall be in direct charge of the Mechanical
Division.
         (b)   The master mechanic shall be in charge of the Bureau of Pumping
Stations and of all equipment assigned to the Mechanical Division and shall be
responsible for its custody, supervision, repair, alteration, and maintenance
in good condition, and shall have supervision, control, custody, and management
over all municipal garages, and all motor vehicles assigned to the Mechanical
Division by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
         (c)   In addition to his or her other duties, the master mechanic
shall have charge of the machine shop and the mechanical operation of the
pumping stations.
         (d)   The master mechanic shall, when requested, study and approve or
reject all specifications for the purchase of necessary equipment and for
repair of parts, supplies, and motor vehicles.
         (e)   The master mechanic shall keep records and provide for a monthly
charge to each division or bureau covering the cost of service furnished to the
division or bureau.
(Prior Code, § 33.067)
      (4)   Additional assistants and employees. Other assistants and employees
in the Mechanical Division shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of
the Mayor in a number and classification provided in the annual budget.
(Prior Code, § 33.068)
   (D)   Electric and Light Division.
      (1)   Created; jurisdiction. There is created, in the Department of
Public Works, the Electric and Light Division which shall be under the
jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 33.080)
      (2)   Duties.
         (a)   It shall be the duty of the Electric and Light Division, under
the direct charge of the City Electrician, to supervise the maintenance,
management, and improvement of the street lighting system, the fire and police
alarm and telephone systems, the electric systems of all city buildings,
structures, traffic controls, and city electrical apparatus. The division shall
purchase electric light bulbs for the use of the various departments of the
city.
      (b)   The division shall recommend changes or improvements where
artificial lighting is inadequate or inefficient and shall prepare
specifications, subject to approval of the City Engineer, for the purchase or
leasing of any electrical material or apparatus for the city. It shall be the
further duty of the division to perform and supervise all other kindred
electrical services for the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.081)
      (3)   Electrical Inspector; Bureau of Electrical Permits.
         (a)   There is created the position of Electrical Inspector. The
Electrical Inspector shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the
Mayor. To be eligible for the appointment, the Inspector shall be highly
qualified for the position and shall have five years practical experience. He
or she shall be in charge of the Bureau of Electrical Permits.
         (b)   1.   It shall be the duty of the Bureau of Electrical Permits,
under the direct charge of the Electrical Inspector, to inspect for approval or
rejection all plans and drawings for the installation or alteration of
electrical connections or equipment and to further inspect the electrical work
in all buildings, structures, and things in the city required to be inspected
by the provisions of this code or by law.
            2.   The Electrical Inspector shall have the right, when necessary,
to remove any existing obstructions such as laths, plastering, boarding, or
partitions, which may prevent a complete inspection of electrical equipment.
(Prior Code, § 33.082)
      (4)   City Electrician. There is created the position of City
Electrician. The City Electrician shall be appointed by and serve at the
pleasure of the Mayor, shall be in charge of the Electric and Light Division,
and shall be a qualified, experienced, and competent electrician.
(Prior Code, § 33.083)
      (5)   Additional assistants and workers.
         (a)   The Electric and Light Division shall have other necessary
assistants and workers in a number and at salaries and wages provided in the
annual budget.
         (b)   The powers of the City Electrician may be delegated to others
temporarily by the Board of Public Works and Safety because of illness,
absence, or other causes.
(Prior Code, § 33.084)
      (6)   Public safety. The public safety shall, at all times, be the
paramount consideration in the work of the Electric and Light Division.
(Prior Code, § 33.085)
   (E)   Revolving fund.
      (1)   There is hereby established a revolving fund, to be known as Fund
0558, to receive deposits and/or transfer of monies from the Park Department,
General Services, Department of Solid Waste, and the Port Authority (Marina)
from which to fund the operations of the Department of Public Works. The
reimbursement percentages from the contributing departments and funds shall be
as follows:
         (a)   Sanitary solids: 88%;
         (b)   Park Department: 8%;
         (c)   General services: 3%; and
         (d)   Marina: 1%.
      (2)   The purpose for which expenditures can be made from this revolving
account are limited to the operation and maintenance of the Department of
Public Works. The fund so created shall be perpetual; however, in the event
that it is terminated for any lawful reason, monies remaining shall revert to
the original participating funds in proportion to the percentages described in
division (E)(2) above.
(Ord. 15-0027, passed 12-14-2015)
§ 32.228 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   Divisions created. There is created in the Department of Public
Safety, under the Board of Public Works and Safety, the following divisions:
      (1)   Building Inspection and Permits;
      (2)   Fire force;
      (3)   Harbor Master;
      (4)   Inspector of Weights and Measures;
      (5)   Police force;
      (6)   Bureau of Air Pollution; and
      (7)   Other divisions which the Board of Public Works and Safety may deem
necessary and establish or which are herein placed by law or ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 33.005)
   (B)   Control of divisions. The operation, management, and control of the
divisions established in §
33.005 shall be under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works and Safety
except where otherwise provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 33.006)
   (C)   Established; composition. There is established the Division of
Building Inspection and Permits, which shall include the Bureaus of Electrical
Permits, Plumbing Permits, Bureau of Air Pollution, and other bureaus,
officers, or employees herein placed.
(Prior Code, § 33.015)
   (D)   Bureau of Electrical Permits created. There is created the Bureau of
Electrical Permits in the Division of Building Inspection and Permits.
(Prior Code, § 33.016)
   (E)   Additional employees. There may be other employees or positions in the
Division of Building Inspection and Permits for which the Common Council may,
from time to time, appropriate wages or salaries, in the manner provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 33.017)
   (F)   Right of entry to inspect. The Building Commissioner, the Electrical
Inspector, the Plumbing Inspector, and his or her duly authorized deputies or
assistants shall have the right, during reasonable hours, upon presentation of
proper credentials, to enter any building, premises, or structure in the
discharge of his or her official duties or for the purpose of making an
inspection or test of the building, structure, premises, electrical wiring,
materials, electrical, or plumbing equipment, including the installation.
(Prior Code, § 33.018)
   (G)   Records. The Division of Building Inspection and Permits shall keep
records of all matters pertaining to the Division, including applications
filed, permits issued or rejected, and other official work performed.
(Prior Code, § 33.019)
   (H)   Conflicts of interest. Neither the Building Commissioner, nor any of
the Inspectors as employees in the Division of Building Inspection and Permits
shall be employed by any private contractor nor engaged or interested, directly
or indirectly, in any contract in connection with the furnishing of any
material or the repair or erection of any building or part thereof within the
city.
(Prior Code, § 33.020)
   (I)   Police aid in enforcement of code provisions. Whenever in the opinion
of the Building Commissioner, Electrical, or Plumbing Inspectors, police
assistance is necessary in enforcing any provisions of this code, governing the
work of the Divisions of Building Inspection and Permits, he or she shall be
given aid by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 33.021)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Composition
   
33.002   Supervision and control
   
33.003   Organization and structure
   
33.004   Impersonation of police officer prohibited
   
33.005   Uniforms and equipment
   
33.006   Police Department Death Benefits
Chief of Police
   
33.020   Appointment; qualifications
   
33.021   Powers and duties
   
33.022   Employees and assistants
Police Force
   
33.035   Cooperation with Department of Law
   
33.036   Appointment; promotion, demotion, and the like
   
33.037   Number
   
33.038   Powers and duties generally
   
33.039   Conduct
   
33.040   Resignations; reappointments
   
33.041   Reporting and attending fires
Police Merit Commission
   
33.055   Definitions
   
33.056   Establishment and composition of Commission
   
33.057   Commissioners; terms; tenure
   
33.058   Elections; meetings; notice
   
33.059   Rules
   
33.060   Department members
   
33.061   Promotions; performance ratings; probation
   
33.062   Disciplinary actions; grounds; hearing; notice; requisites;
procedures; appeals
   
33.063   Appeal to Court; suspension or dismissal; precedence
   
33.064   Summary disciplinary actions; reprimand or suspension
   
33.065   Retirement age
   
33.066   Temporary leave of absence; seniority; reinstatement
   
33.067   Rules; printing; copies to Department member
   
33.068   Offense; furnishing information to applicants
   
33.069   Prior ranks and grades undisturbed
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 COMPOSITION.
   The police force of the city shall be a separate division of the Department
of Public Safety and it shall be referred to and named as the Police
Department. It shall consist of a Chief of Police and other positions, ranks,
and divisions as may be provided for from time to time by the Board of Public
Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 34.001)
§ 33.002 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have jurisdiction and control
over all matters and property relating to or connected with the Police
Department, except as to those matters committed to the jurisdiction of the
Police Merit Commission under §§
33.055 through
33.069, or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34.002) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
§ 33.003 ORGANIZATION AND STRUCTURE.
   (A)   The organization and structure of the Police Department shall be
prescribed by and governed by rules and regulations adopted and published by
the Board of Public Works and Safety except as to those matters committed to
the rule-making jurisdiction of the Police Merit Commission under §§
33.055 through
33.069.
   (B)   The rules and regulations of the Board shall establish ranks of
command and classifications of service and shall, upon adoption and
publication, have the same effect as if specifically set out in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 34.003) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
§ 33.004 IMPERSONATION OF POLICE OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, excepting a police officer or other
authorized official of the city: to wear in public the uniform adopted as the
police uniform resembling it, with or without the regular device; to represent
himself or herself falsely to be a police officer or member of the police force
of the city; to use or imitate any of the signs, signals, or devices used by
the police force or wear any star or badge with intent to deceive; to use or
operate upon the public streets any motor vehicles which have signs or devices
which resemble or simulate official city police vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 34.004) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 33.005 UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Uniforms and equipment furnished by city. The city shall furnish
uniforms and equipment for police officers as may be required by law.
(Prior Code, § 34.050)
   (B)   Ammunition for Police Department firearms furnished by city.
Ammunition for all firearms to be used in the Police Department shall be
furnished by the city without expense to the members of the police force.
(Prior Code, § 34.051)
   (C)   Style and design of uniforms; badges generally.
      (1)   The style and design of the official police uniform and badge shall
be prescribed by the Chief of Police and approved by the Board of Public Works
and Safety. The badge shall be furnished by the city.
      (2)   All members upon suspension or upon leaving the force shall
immediately deliver their badge to the Chief.
      (3)   No member shall transfer possession of his or her badge without
proper authority. Any police officer who shall lose or destroy his or her badge
shall be required to pay the cost of replacement.
(Prior Code, § 34.052)
§ 33.006 POLICE DEPARTMENT DEATH BENEFITS.
   (A)   Generally. The city’s Pension Fund created pursuant to the Police
Pension Fund Act of 1925, being I.C. 36-8-6 et seq., shall pay benefits subject
to the limitations provided by law, as set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 34.065)
   (B)   Funeral benefits. Funeral benefits are paid to the heirs or estate of
an active or retired member of the City Police Department who has died from any
cause, in the sum of an amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 34.066)
   (C)   Payments to surviving spouse. Payments to the surviving spouse of a
deceased member of the City Police Department shall be as follows:
      (1)   To the surviving spouse of a member who dies before January 1,
1989, an amount equal to 50% of the monthly pay of a first class patrol officer
per month during the surviving spouse’s life if the spouse did not remarry
before September 1, 1983;
      (2)   To the surviving spouse of a member who dies after December 31,
1988, an amount per month, during the spouse’s life, equal to the greater of:
         (a)   Fifty percent of the monthly pay of a first class patrol
officer; or
         (b)   Fifty-five percent of the monthly benefit the deceased member
was receiving or was entitled to receive on the date of the member’s death.
(Prior Code, § 34.067)
   (D)   Payments to surviving children. Payment shall be made to each child of
a deceased member under the age of 18 years equal to 20% of the monthly pay of
a first class patrol officer per month to each child:
      (1)   Until the child reaches the age of 18;
      (2)   Until the child reaches 23 years of age if the child is enrolled in
and regularly attending a secondary school or is a full-time student at an
accredited college or university; or
      (3)   During the entire period of the child’s physical or mental
disability; whichever period is longer.
(Prior Code, § 34.068)
   (E)   Other benefits provided by law. All other death benefits payable to a
deceased member’s estate, surviving spouse, or dependents, including dependent
parents, shall be made from the Fund as provided by applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 34.069)
(Ord. 0-95-0004, passed - -1995)
CHIEF OF POLICE
§ 33.020 APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the
Mayor in the manner provided by law. He or she shall meet the eligibility
requirements provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 34.015)
§ 33.021 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police shall, in accordance with the provisions of
this code and law, have the management, control, and supervision of the Police
Department, its officers, members, and assistants.
      (2)   (a)   He or she shall have custody and control of the offices,
stations, equipment, books, records, and other property belonging to the
Department.
         (b)   He or she shall preserve the peace and secure good order and
cleanliness within the city and to that end shall enforce this code, all laws
and ordinances of the city and the orders of the Mayor and the Board of Public
Works and Safety.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall also:
      (1)   Cause a record to be made and kept of the proceedings, which he or
she may deem necessary, and make a report, at least, annually to the Mayor and
to the Board of Public Works and Safety;
      (2)   Recommend to the Board of Public Works and Safety members as
candidates to the National Police Academy in the various other traffic or
police schools;
      (3)   Be responsible for the efficiency, general good conduct, and
improvement of the police force;
      (4)   Keep exact lists of the personnel of the police force, specifying
the time of admission, discharge, and the age of each member, which he or she
shall file with the Board of Public Works and Safety in an annual report to be
furnished by him or her;
      (5)   Cause order to be preserved at meetings of the Common Council or
Board of Public Works and Safety; and
      (6)   Perform other duties and functions consistent with his or her
position which may be required of him or her.
(Prior Code, § 34.016)
§ 33.022 EMPLOYEES AND ASSISTANTS.
   (A)   At the request of the Board of Public Works and Safety, the Mayor and
the Common Council may, in the manner provided by law, provide the positions
and wages of other employees assigned to work with the Police Department.
   (B)   If not otherwise provided by law, the Mayor and the Board of Public
Works and Safety may appoint or employ other employees and assistants to the
Police Department who may assist, but who shall not be members of the police
force.
(Prior Code, § 34.017)
POLICE FORCE
§ 33.035 COOPERATION WITH DEPARTMENT OF LAW.
   It shall be the duty of every police officer to cooperate with the
Department of Law in investigating all actions or claims for or against the
city.
(Prior Code, § 34.030)
§ 33.036 APPOINTMENT; PROMOTION, DEMOTION, AND THE LIKE.
   Members of the police force shall be appointed by the Board of Public Works
and Safety in accordance with the eligibility list compiled and adopted by the
Police Merit Commission pursuant to §§
33.055 through
33.069. Except as to those cases within the jurisdiction of the Police Merit
Commission, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the power to
promote, demote, remove, bind, suspend, or penalize them in the manner provided
by law.
(Prior Code, § 34.031) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
§ 33.037 NUMBER.
   The police force of the city shall consist of the Chief of Police and all
other members in a number as the Board of Public Works and Safety shall appoint
in the manner provided by law within the limits which the Common Council shall,
from time to time, fix and provide.
(Prior Code, § 34.032)
§ 33.038 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the police force and the members thereof are
at all times within the city specially empowered to suppress riots, mobs, and
insurrections; disburse unlawful and dangerous assemblages and assemblages
which obstruct the free passage of public streets, sidewalks, parks, and
places; protect the rights of persons and property; guard the public health;
preserve order at elections and public meetings; direct the movement of
traffic; administer traffic rules; conduct investigations and make reports;
remove all nuisances in public streets, sidewalks, parks, or highways; arrest
all street beggars and vagrants; provide proper police assistance at fires;
assist, advise, and protect strangers and travelers in public streets or at
railroad stations; carefully observe and inspect dance houses, resorts, and all
places of business under license or required to have the same; suppress and
restrain all houses of ill fame or prostitution and houses where common
prostitutes resort or reside, all lottery or policy shops, all gambling houses,
cockpits, and all unlawful or disorderly conduct or practice; and enforce and
prevent the violation of laws, the provisions of this code, and the ordinances
in force in the city.
   (B)   (1)   The members of the police force shall report immediately all
dangerous public places and all cases of streetlight outages to the officer in
charge of the station, who shall report the matter, in turn, to the Electric
and Light Division; report to the station all defects in sidewalks, which
shall, in turn, be reported through the Chief to the Supervisor of Public
Works, and in cases of accident shall in the same manner cause them to be
reported to the City Attorney together with the names and statements of
witnesses of the accidents; and on observing or being informed of any opening
or excavation in any public way, to require the persons making the opening or
excavation or working therein to exhibit the authority or permission for the
work.
      (2)   If none has been given by the proper authority, police officers
shall without delay report the same to the station to be reported through the
Chief to the Supervisor of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 34.033)
§ 33.039 CONDUCT.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city shall adopt and
publish rules and regulations for the conduct of all officers of the Department
of Police, the rules and regulations having been adopted and published and, as
shall be amended, shall have the same force and effect as if specifically
included in this chapter.
   (B)   All complaints of citizens regarding officers and members of the
police force shall be investigated promptly and thoroughly. The substance of
all oral complaints and copies of written complaints received at the police
stations and by the various bureaus, branches, and sections of the service
shall be forwarded promptly to the Chief of Police.
   (C)   For highly meritorious conduct approved by the Board of Public Works
and Safety, members of the Police Department may be entitled to extra furloughs
which shall be counted as time served on the force.
   (D)   Each police officer shall keep in good physical condition at all times
and shall be available for emergency service at any time.
   (E)   The highest moral and exemplary conduct shall be required of all
members of the police force, whether on active duty or not.
(Prior Code, § 34.034)
§ 33.040 RESIGNATIONS; REAPPOINTMENTS.
   No member of the police force shall, under penalty of forfeiting the pay
which may be due him or her, withdraw or resign from the police force without
sufficient cause, of which the Board of Public Works and Safety shall be the
judge, unless he or she shall give ten days notice thereof to the Board. No
person who shall have been removed for cause from the police force shall be
reappointed to any position in the police force.
(Prior Code, § 34.035)
§ 33.041 REPORTING AND ATTENDING FIRES.
   It shall be the duty of any member of the police force who shall discover
any fire consuming any building or in dangerous proximity thereto to give the
fire alarm immediately and, afterward during the progress of any fire, to be
present and assist in preserving order and in enforcing any orders of the Chief
of the fire force.
(Prior Code, § 34.036)
POLICE MERIT COMMISSION
§ 33.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The merit commission for a merit system established under this
subchapter.
   DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 34.080) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
§ 33.056 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   A Merit Commission consisting of five Commissioners is
established for the Police Department. The Commissioners are:
         (a)   Two persons, who must be of different political parties,
appointed by the city executive;
         (b)   One person appointed by the city legislative body; and
         (c)   Two persons, who must be of different political parties, elected
by the active members of the Department.
      (2)   Notwithstanding I.C. 36-1-8-10, political affiliation shall be
determined through the voters’ registration records of the three most recent
primary elections.
   (B)   (1)   Each Commissioner must have been a legal resident of the city
for three consecutive years immediately preceding the Commissioner’s term and
must be a person of good moral character.
      (2)   The legislative body may, upon the recommendation of the Board of
Public Works and Safety, determine a per diem to be paid to each Commissioner
for each day of actual service for the Commission.
      (3)   A Commissioner must be at least 21 years of age.
      (4)   A Commissioner may not be an active member of a Police or Fire
Department or city agency and not more than two of the Commissioners may be
past members of a Police or Fire Department or city agency. In addition, a
person may not serve on the Commission if the person receives any remuneration
as salary from the city.
   (C)   (1)   Each Commissioner shall take an oath of office to
conscientiously discharge the Commissioner’s duties.
      (2)   A signed copy of the oath shall be filed with the Board of Public
Works and Safety.
(I.C. 36-8-3.5-6)
   (D)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-4(a) and I.C. 36-4-9-4(c)(7), in order to
efficiently perform certain administrative functions required to fulfill the
needs of the city’s, citizens, and specifically to perform the duties outlined
in and comply with the requirements of I.C. 36-4-9 and §
33.058, the Mayor of the city hereby recommends that the Department of the City
Police Merit Commission be created.
   (E)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-4(a) and 36-4-9-4(c)(7) as well as I.C. 36-4-
9, the Department of the Police Merit Commission is hereby established.
(Prior Code, § 34.081) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003; Ord. 13-0005, passed 4-
8-2013)
§ 33.057 COMMISSIONERS; TERMS; TENURE.
   (A)   The term of a Commissioner is four years. However, one of the
executive’s initial selections and one of the Department’s initial selections
are for terms of two years.
   (B)   A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled within 30 days by the
appointing or electing authority. The selection is for the remainder of the
unexpired term.
   (C)   A Commissioner serves at the pleasure of the appointing or electing
authority and may be removed at any time. In the case of a Commissioner elected
by the Department, the Board of Public Works and Safety shall call a meeting of
the active members of the Department under the procedures specified in division
(D) below if a recall petition signed by a majority of the active members is
submitted to the Board.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city shall give at least
three weeks’ notice to all active members of the Department that a meeting will
be held to approve or reject the recall petition.
      (1)   The notice shall be given by posting it in prominent places in all
stations of the Department.
      (2)   The notice must designate the time, place, and purpose of the
meeting.
      (3)   A copy of the petition shall be distributed to each active member
of the Department at least one week before the date of the meeting.
      (4)   Only active members of the Department may attend the meeting, and
at the meeting one of them shall be selected as Chairperson. All voting must be
by secret written ballot.
      (5)   The other procedures for holding the meeting may be determined by
the Board of Public Works and Safety and shall be posted in the same manner as
the notice of the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 34.082) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-7
§ 33.058 ELECTIONS; MEETINGS; NOTICE.
   (A)   An election to be made by the active members of the Department shall
be made at a meeting called specifically for that purpose by the Board of
Public Works and Safety. The Board shall give at least three weeks’ notice of
the meeting to all active members of the Department by posting the notice in
prominent locations in stations of the Department. The notice shall also be
read during shift roll calls. The notice must designate the time, place, and
purpose of the meeting.
   (B)   Only active members of the Department may attend the meeting, and at
the meeting one of them shall be selected as Chairperson. All voting must be by
secret written ballot. The other procedures for holding the meeting may be
determined by the Board of Public Works and Safety and shall be posted in
accordance with division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 34.083) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-8
§ 33.059 RULES.
   (A)   Rules governing Commission; transaction of business; selection of
officers; records; budget.
      (1)   Within 30 days after the Commission is selected, the Commission
shall adopt rules to govern the Commission, including the time and place of
regular monthly meetings and special meetings that are necessary to transact
the business of the Commission. A majority of the Commissioners constitutes a
quorum, and a majority vote of all the Commissioners is necessary to transact
the business of the Commission. Each year the Commissioners shall select from
among their number a President, Vice President and Secretary. The Commission
shall keep a permanent record of its proceedings.
      (2)   The Commission shall submit a proposed annual budget to the city as
other budgets of the city are submitted. The legislative body shall include in
its budget an amount sufficient for the necessary expenses of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 34.084)
   (B)   Adoption; notice and hearing. 
      (1)   Within 90 days after the Commission is selected, the Commission
shall adopt rules governing:
         (a)   The selection and appointment of persons to be employed as
members of the Department, subject to applicable pension statutes;
         (b)   Promotions and demotions of members of the Department; and
         (c)   Disciplinary action or dismissal of members of the Department.
      (2)   (a)   Before the rules required by this subchapter are adopted by
the Commission, the Commission must hold a public hearing to consider the
adoption of the proposed rules.
         (b)   At least ten days before the public hearing, the Commission must
have a notice of the hearing published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. The
notice must state the time and place of the hearing and give briefly the
subject matter of the proposed rules.
      (3)   At least ten days before the hearing, one copy of the proposed
rules must be placed on file in the office of the City Clerk for inspection by
residents of the city.
      (4)   At least ten days before the hearing, three copies of the proposed
rules must be forwarded to the Chief of the Department and retained on file in
his or her office for inspection at all times by members of the Department.
      (5)   At the hearing any interested person of the city and any member of
the Department must be afforded an opportunity to present both oral and written
evidence on any matter relating to the adoption of the proposed rules. The
Commission shall give due consideration to this evidence in making its final
decision concerning the adoption of the proposed rules.
(Prior Code, § 34.085)
(Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-9 and 36-8-3.5-10
§ 33.060 DEPARTMENT MEMBERS.
   (A)   Tenure; Chief; appointment and qualifications.
      (1)   The Commission may appoint and remove members of the Department,
except for a member in an upper level policymaking position. The executive of
the city shall appoint and may remove a member in an upper level policymaking
position.
      (2)   To be appointed Chief or Deputy Chief of the Police Department, an
applicant must meet the qualifications in I.C. 36-8-4-6.5.
      (3)   The removal of a member from an upper level policymaking position
is removal from rank only and not from the Department. When the member is
removed, he or she shall be appointed by the Commission to the rank in the
Department that he or she held at the time of his or her upper level
appointment or to any rank to which he or she had been promoted during his or
her tenure in the upper level position. If a rank is not open in either case,
the member is entitled to the pay of that rank and shall be promoted to that
rank as soon as an opening is available.
(Prior Code, § 34.086)
   (B)   Members; appointment; qualifications; applications; general aptitude
test; ratings; eligibility list; vacancies; physical agility test; probation.
      (1)   (a)   To be appointed to the Department, an applicant must be:
            1.   A citizen of the United States;
            2.   A high school graduate or equivalent; and
            3.   At least 21 years of age, but under 36 years of age.
         (b)   However, the age requirements do not apply to a person who has
been previously employed as a member of the Department.
      (2)   A person may not be appointed, reappointed, or reinstated if he or
she has a felony conviction on his or her record.
      (3)   Applications for appointment or reappointment to the Department
must be filed with the Commission. The applicant must produce satisfactory
proof of the date and place of his or her birth.
      (4)   (a)   Applicants for appointment or reappointment to the Department
must pass the general aptitude test required under I.C. 36-8-3.2-3 or 36-8-3.2-
3.5. The general aptitude test shall:
            1.   Reflect the essential functions of the job;
            2.   Be conducted according to procedures adopted by the
Commission; and
            3.   Be administered in a manner that reasonably accommodates the
needs of disabled applicants.
         (b)   The results of the general aptitude test shall be filed with the
Commission. If the Commission finds that the applicant lacks the proper
qualifications, it shall reject the applicant.
      (5)   The applicants shall then be rated on the selection criteria and
testing methods adopted by the Commission, which may include mental alertness,
character, habits, and reputation. The Commission shall adopt rules for grading
the applicants, including the establishment of a passing score. The Commission
shall place the names of applicants with passing scores on an eligibility list
by the order of their scores and shall certify the list to the Board of Public
Works and Safety. All applicants for appointment to the department who have
achieved a passing score on the written enhance qualification and have met all
other criteria set forth by the Police Merit Commission, and who, at the time
of the examination, are and have been continuously, for a period of not less
than 12 months prior to the date of examination, a resident of the city, shall
be granted by the Commission a credit of 15% on his or her oral examination
score. Residency shall be determined in keeping with I.C. 3-5-5-1 et seq.
(Standards for Determining Residency).
      (6)   If an applicant for original appointment reaches his or her thirty-
sixth birthday, his or her name shall be removed from the eligibility list.
Applicants remain on the list for two years from the date of certification.
After two years, a person may reapply as an applicant.
      (7)   When a vacancy occurs in the Department, the Commission, upon a
written request of the Chief of the Department, shall administer the physical
agility test under I.C. 36-8-3.2-3 or 36-8-3.2-3.5 to the applicant having the
highest score on the eligibility list. If the appointed applicant successfully
completes the physical agility test, the applicant shall then be enrolled as a
member of the Department to fill the vacancy if:
         (a)   The applicant is still of good character; and
         (b)   The applicant passes the required examinations identified in
I.C. 36-8-3.2-6 and 36-8-8-19.
      (8)   All appointments are probationary for a period not to exceed one
year. If the Commission finds, upon the recommendation of the Department during
the probationary period, that the conduct or capacity of the probationary
member is not satisfactory, the Commission shall notify him or her in writing
that he or she is being reprimanded, that he or she is being suspended, or that
he or she will not receive a permanent appointment. If a member is notified
that he or she will not receive a permanent appointment, his or her employment
immediately ceases. Otherwise, at the expiration of the probationary period the
member is considered regularly employed.
(Prior Code, § 34.087)
(Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003; Ord. 13-0012, passed 5-28-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-11 and 36-8-3.5-12
§ 33.061 PROMOTIONS; PERFORMANCE RATINGS; PROBATION.
   (A)   Promotions; rules; requisites; eligibility list.
      (1)   (a)   Rules governing promotions must provide that the following
factors be considered in rating a member of the Department for a promotion:
            1.   The score received by the member on a written competitive
examination;
            2.   The score received by the member on an oral competitive
interview;
            3.   The performance record of the member in the Department; and
            4.   The member’s length of service.
         (b)   The Commission shall determine the weight to be given to each of
the factors. However, neither a member’s length of service nor the score
received on the oral interview may comprise more than 20% each of the rating.
      (2)   Promotions to a rank must be from the next lower rank. In addition,
the member being promoted must have served at the lower rank for a period
determined by the Commission.
      (3)   Only members who are qualified in rank and length of service may be
given the competitive examinations and placed on an eligibility list. The
eligibility list for a position consists of members who have been placed on the
list in order of their cumulative score on all rating factors. The eligibility
list shall be maintained for two years from the date of certification, after
which time the list shall be retired and a new list established. The retired
list shall be kept for five years and then destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 34.088)
   (B)   Promotions; competitive examinations; procedures.
      (1)   Before a written competitive examination may be held to fill a
current or expected vacancy in the ranks, the members eligible to take the
examination must be notified of the written materials from which the questions
will be taken. The Commission may employ instructors, purchase materials, and
make other expenditures to provide information for applicants for promotion
examinations.
      (2)   The identity of a member taking the written examination shall be
withheld from the person or persons grading the examination and all written
examinations are confidential. The Commission shall notify each member in
writing of the score that the member received on the examination. The score
received by a member on the written examination becomes a part of the permanent
file of the member, and the member is entitled to access to this file for
examination at any time.
      (3)   (a)   The examination papers shall be kept under the Commission’s
supervision. A member who is aggrieved with the score received on the written
examination may appeal to the Commission for review of the score. The appeal
must be filed within ten days after notice of the score has been sent to him or
her. He or she may review the questions incorrectly answered by him or her and
challenge the answer considered correct by the examiner.
         (b)   The Commission shall either affirm the score or correct the
score according to the findings of a review. The examination papers shall be
retired after the two year period during which the eligibility list is valid.
The retired papers shall be kept for five years and then destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 34.089)
   (C)   Performance ratings; rules; appeal.
      (1)   (a)   The Commission shall adopt rules for determining a
performance rating. The rules must require that a performance rating be made at
least once every six months for each member of the Department, including
probationary members. The rating shall be made by one or more of the member’s
superiors, as defined in the Commission’s rules. Probationary members shall be
rated in the same manner as other members of the Department.
         (b)   The ratings shall be submitted to the Chief of the Department
and kept on file in his or her office under his or her supervision. The Chief
shall notify each member in writing of the rating that the member received.
      (2)   A member who is aggrieved with the performance rating given to him
or her by his or her superior may appeal to the Commission for a review of the
rating. The appeal must be filed within ten days after notice of the rating has
been sent to him or her. The Commission shall either affirm or correct the
rating.
(Prior Code, § 34.090)
   (D)   Promotions; certification of eligible members; probation; procedures.
      (1)   When a vacancy in rank occurs, the Commission shall certify to the
Chief of the Department the three members with the highest scores on the
eligibility list for that particular rank. The oral test scores of any
candidate for promotion, who is a city resident for more than one year at the
time of the taking of the test, and who otherwise meet the criteria imposed by
Police Merit Commission shall be increased by 15%. Within six months the
Commission, upon the recommendation of the Chief, shall promote one of those
members to fill the vacant position.
      (2)   All promotions are probationary for a period not to exceed one
year. At the end of the period, a probationary member’s superior shall review
the member’s performance and recommend to the Commission that:
         (a)   The promotion be made permanent; or
         (b)   The promotion be revoked.
      (3)   The Commission shall prepare a rating chart for the superior’s use
in making the report. The Commission shall review the report and decide what
action should be taken. The probationary member is entitled to appear before
the Commission and be heard on any matter detrimental to him or her in his or
her superior’s report. He or she is also entitled to be represented by counsel
or another representative of his or her choice. If the promotion is finally
revoked the member may not be returned to a rank lower than that he or she held
before the probationary promotion.
      (4)   Actions by the Commission other than making the promotion permanent
may be appealed within 30 days to the Circuit or Superior Court of the county,
with the city being named as the sole defendant.
(Prior Code, § 34.092)
(Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003; Ord. 13-0012, passed 5-28-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-13, 36-8-3.5-14, 36-8-3.5-15, and 36-
8-3.5-16
§ 33.062 DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS; GROUNDS; HEARING; NOTICE; REQUISITES;
PROCEDURES; APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission may take the following disciplinary actions
against a regular member of the Department:
         (a)   Suspension with or without pay;
         (b)   Demotion; or
         (c)   Dismissal.
      (2)   If a member is suspended under this division, the member is
entitled to the member’s remuneration and allowances for insurance benefits to
which the member was entitled before the suspension. In addition, the city may
provide the member’s allowances for any other fringe benefits to which the
member was entitled before the suspension. The Commission shall determine if a
member of the Department who is suspended in excess of five days shall continue
to receive the member’s salary during suspension.
   (B)   A member may be disciplined by the Commission if:
      (1)   The member is convicted of a crime; or
      (2)   The Commission finds the member guilty of a breach of discipline,
including:
         (a)   Neglect of duty;
         (b)   Violation of Commission rules;
         (c)   Neglect or disobedience of orders;
         (d)   Continuing incapacity;
         (e)   Absence without leave;
         (f)   Immoral conduct;
         (g)   Conduct injurious to the public peace or welfare;
         (h)   Conduct unbecoming a member; or
         (I)   Furnishing information to an applicant for appointment or
promotion that gives that person an advantage over another applicant.
   (C)   If the Chief of the Department, after an investigation within the
Department, prefers charges against a member of the Department for an alleged
breach a discipline under division (B) above, including any civilian complaint
of an alleged breach of discipline under division (B)(2)(f), (B)(2)(g), or (B)
(2)(h) above, a hearing shall be conducted upon the request of the member. If a
hearing is requested within five days of the Chief preferring charges, the
parties may by agreement designate a hearing officer who is qualified by
education, training, or experience. If the parties do not agree within this
five-day period, the Commission may hold the hearing or designate a person or
Board to conduct the hearing, as provided in the Commission’s rules. The
designated person or Board must be qualified by education, training, or
experience to conduct a hearing and may not hold an upper level policy making
position. The hearing conducted under this division shall be held within 30
days after it is requested by the member.
   (D)   Written notice of the hearing shall be served upon the accused member
in person or by a copy left at the member’s last and usual place of residence
at least 14 days before the date set for the hearing. The notice must state:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   The charges against the member;
      (3)   The specific conduct that comprises the charges;
      (4)   The member is entitled to be represented by counsel or another
representative of the member’s choice;
      (5)   The member is entitled to call and cross-examine witnesses;
      (6)   The member is entitled to require the production of evidence; and
      (7)   The member is entitled to have subpoenas issued, served, and
executed.
   (E)   The Commission may:
      (1)   Compel the attendance of witnesses by issuing subpoenas;
      (2)   Examine witnesses under oath; and
      (3)   Order the production of books, papers, and other evidence by
issuing subpoenas.
   (F)   If a witness refuses to appear at a hearing of the Commission after
having received written notice requiring the witness’s attendance, or refuses
to produce evidence that the Commission requests by written notice, the
Commission may file an affidavit in the Circuit Court of the county setting
forth the facts of the refusal. Upon the filing of the affidavit, a summons
shall be issued from the Circuit Court and served by the Sheriff of the county
requiring the appearance of the witness or the production of information or
evidence to the Commission.
   (G)   Disobedience of a summons constitutes contempt of the Circuit Court
from which the summons has been issued. Expenses related to the filing of an
affidavit and the issuance and service of a summons shall be charged to the
witness against whom the summons has been issued, unless the Circuit Court
finds that the action of the witness was taken in good faith and with
reasonable cause. In that case, and in any case in which an affidavit has been
filed without the issuance of a summons, the expenses shall be charged to the
Commission.
   (H)   A decision to discipline a member may be made only if the
preponderance of the evidence presented at the hearing indicates that course of
action.
   (I)   A member who is aggrieved by the decision of a person or Board
designated to conduct a disciplinary hearing under division (C) above may
appeal to the Commission within ten days of the decision. The Commission shall
on appeal review the record and either affirm, modify, or reverse the decision
on the basis of the record and oral or written testimony that the Commission
determines, including additional or newly discovered evidence.
   (J)   The Commission, or the designated person or Board, shall keep a record
of the proceedings in cases of suspension, demotion, or dismissal. The
Commission shall give a free copy of the transcript to the member upon request
if an appeal is filed.
(Prior Code, § 34.092) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-17
§ 33.063 APPEAL TO COURT; SUSPENSION OR DISMISSAL; PRECEDENCE.
   (A)   A member who is aggrieved by a decision of the Commission to suspend
him or her for a period greater than ten calendar days, demote him or her, or
dismiss him or her may appeal to the Circuit or Superior Court of the county in
which the unit is located.
   (B)   The appeal shall be made according to the State Rules of Trial
procedure with the following exceptions:
      (1)   The verified appeal must be filed within 30 days after the date of
the Board’s decision;
      (2)   The city shall be named as the sole defendant;
      (3)   The city is assumed to have denied the allegations without filing a
responsive pleading;
      (4)   The plaintiff must file a bond at the time of filing the complaint
conditioned on the plaintiff prosecuting the appeal to a final determination
and paying the court costs incurred in the appeal; and
      (5)   Within 30 days after the service of summons the Commission shall
file in court a complete transcript of all papers, entries, and other parts of
the record relating to the case.
   (C)   The appeal takes precedence over other litigation pending before the
court.
(Prior Code, § 34.093) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-18
§ 33.064 SUMMARY DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS; REPRIMAND OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   In addition to the disciplinary powers of the Commission, the Chief of
the Department, may, without a hearing, reprimand or suspend without pay a
member, including a police radio or signal alarm operator or a fire alarm
operator, for a maximum of five working days.
   (B)   If a Chief reprimands a member in writing or suspends a member, he or
she shall, within 48 hours, notify the Commission in writing of the action and
the reasons for the action. A member who is reprimanded in writing or suspended
under this section may, within 48 hours after receiving notice of the reprimand
or suspension, request in writing that the Commission review the reprimand or
suspension and either uphold or reverse the Chief’s decision. At its
discretion, the Commission may hold a hearing during this review. If the Board
holds a hearing, written notice must be given either by service upon the member
in person or by a copy left at the member’s last and usual place of residence
at least 14 days before the date set for the hearing. The notice must contain
the information listed under §
33.062(D) of this subchapter. If the decision is reversed, the individual who
was suspended is entitled to any wages withheld as a result of the suspension.
(Prior Code, § 34.094) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-19
§ 33.065 RETIREMENT AGE.
   A member of the Department shall retire from the Department when he or she
reaches his or her seventieth birthday. However, a member of the Department who
is 70 years of age or older at the time the subchapter establishing the merit
system takes effect may serve until the end of the calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 34.095) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-20
§ 33.066 TEMPORARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE; SENIORITY; REINSTATEMENT.
   (A)   If it is necessary for the Board of Public Works and Safety to reduce
the number of members of the Department, the reduction shall be made by
granting a temporary leave of absence, without pay or financial obligation to
the city, to the appropriate number of members. The last member appointed shall
be put on leave first, with other members also put on leave in reverse hiring
order, until the desired level is achieved.
   (B)   If the Department is increased in number again, the members of the
Department who have been granted leaves of absence under this section shall be
reinstated before an applicant on the eligibility list is appointed to the
Department. The reinstatements begin with the last member granted a leave.
   (C)   A member on leave of absence shall keep the Commission advised of his
or her current address. A member shall be informed of his or her reinstatement
by written notice. Within ten calendar days after a member receives notice of
reinstatement, he or she must advise the Commission that he or she accepts
reinstatement and will be able to commence employment on the date specified in
the notice. All reinstatement rights granted to a member terminate upon his or
her failure to accept reinstatement within that period.
(Prior Code, § 34.096) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-21
§ 33.067 RULES; PRINTING; COPIES TO DEPARTMENT MEMBER.
   The Department shall print all rules of the Commission and furnish a copy to
each member of the Department. Amendments to the rules take effect 30 days
after their adoption if copies have been furnished to all members of the
Department within that period. Otherwise, they do not take effect until copies
are furnished to all members of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 34.097) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-22
§ 33.068 OFFENSE; FURNISHING INFORMATION TO APPLICANTS.
   A Commissioner who knowingly furnishes information to an applicant for
original appointment or to a member eligible for promotion that gives that
person an advantage over another person commits a Class D felony.
(Prior Code, § 34.098) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-23
§ 33.069 PRIOR RANKS AND GRADES UNDISTURBED.
   All members of the Department are entitled to the same ranks and pay grades
the members held under the prior system in effect as of the effective date of
the merit system prescribed herein, subject to changes made in accordance with
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 34.099) (Ord. 0-03-0031, passed - -2003)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3.5-1(d)
CHAPTER 34: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.001   Jurisdiction and control
   
34.002   Division of Department of Public Safety; composition
   
34.003   Secretary to Fire Department
   
34.004   Employees, assistants; generally
   
34.005   Commanding officers
   
34.006   Requests for assistance
   
34.007   Fire station
   
34.008   Civil Service System; adopted by reference
Chief
   
34.020   Appointment; qualifications
   
34.021   Powers and duties
Firefighters
   
34.035   Duties
   
34.036   Appointment, demotion, resignation
   
34.037   Fire force
   
34.041   Officer absence or disability; assumption of duties
   
34.042   Standards of conduct for members of fire force
   
34.043   Uniforms; equipment
   
34.044   Efficiency ratings and merit roll; rewards for meritorious service
   
34.045   Firefighters’ Pension Fund
   
34.046   Vacations
   
34.047   Work schedules; working during emergencies
   
34.048   Sleeping hours when on duty; exceptions
   
34.049   False reports regarding members of fire force
Equipment
   
34.060   Returning equipment of other fire companies
   
34.061   Care of fire hose
   
34.062   Care of city property
   
34.063   Obstruction to fire hydrants
Fire Prevention Bureau
   
34.075   Established; supervision; purpose
   
34.076   Chief of Fire Prevention Bureau
   
34.077   Records
   
34.078   Inspections
   
34.079   Duties of fire inspector
   
34.080   Report of structural instabilities of buildings
   
34.081   Notice of hazards; compliance with order to remedy violations
   
34.082   Investigations
Hazardous Materials (Haz-Mat) Response Team
   
34.095   Created
   
34.096   Haz-Mat Team response; reimbursement responsibility
   
34.097   Clean-up contractors; reimbursement responsibility
   
34.098   Billing responsibility
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.001 JURISDICTION AND CONTROL.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have jurisdiction and
control over all matters and property relating to or connected with the Fire
Department.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall adopt and pass additional
and supplemental rules and regulations as may be necessary from time to time
for the efficient management and control of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 35.001)
§ 34.002 DIVISION OF DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY; COMPOSITION.
   The fire force of the city shall be a separate division of the Department of
Public Safety under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
It shall not be a separate executive department, but for historical and
practical reasons shall continue to be referred to and be named as the Fire
Department. The Fire Department shall consist of a Chief of the Fire Department
and other offices, positions, ranks, and bureaus enumerated in this chapter of
which may be authorized, from time to time, by the Board of Public Works and
Safety or the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 35.002)
§ 34.003 SECRETARY TO FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be a Secretary of the Fire Department who shall preserve and
keep all books, records, and papers belonging to the Department in a manner
that they may be open to inspection of the Board of Public Works and Safety,
the proper committee of the Common Council or the Mayor. The Secretary shall
perform other duties for the division which are assigned to him or her by the
Chief.
(Prior Code, § 35.003)
§ 34.004 EMPLOYEES, ASSISTANTS; GENERALLY.
   At the request of the Board of Public Works and Safety, the Mayor and the
Common Council may, in the manner provided by law, provide the positions and
wages of other employees assigned to work with the Fire Department such as
clerks, stenographers, mechanics, operators, and others. If not otherwise
provided by law, the Mayor may employ other employees and assistants to the
Fire Department, who may assist but shall not be members of the fire force.
(Prior Code, § 35.004)
§ 34.005 COMMANDING OFFICERS.
   There shall be an Assistant Chief, Captains, Lieutenants, and Inspectors in
numbers provided by this code or other ordinance of the city. When not
otherwise provided by this chapter, the duties of the commanding officers shall
be governed by the rules of the Fire Department as adopted and published by the
Board of Public Works and Safety. The rules may also establish ranks based upon
qualification and length of service. Requirements of law, if any, shall be
followed in making promotions.
(Prior Code, § 35.005)
§ 34.006 REQUESTS FOR ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   It is lawful for any member in charge of fire apparatus to require
the aid of any motor vehicle or other source of power in drawing or conveying
fire apparatus to the scene of a fire or other emergency. It is unlawful for
persons to refuse or neglect to assist the fire apparatus as required in this
section.
      (2)   (a)   All persons in the vicinity of a fire or other emergency
shall be subject to the orders of the Chief or other members of the fire force
in charge; provided, that a person who is not a member of the fire division
shall not be bound to obey any member of the fire force in charge at fires or
other emergency unless the member shall wear an insignia indicating his or her
status or shall make known the status to the person charged with obedience of
orders as herein specified.
         (b)   The Chief or other members of the fire force in charge shall
have power to arrest any person refusing to obey lawful orders issued in
accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 35.075)
   (B)   Police assistance.
      (1)   The Fire Chief or other commanding officers of the Fire Department
shall have the authority to call upon the Police Department for aid and
enforcement of any fire regulations of the fire prevention code, this chapter
or any other ordinance of the city.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, when so called upon by
the Fire Chief or his or her duly authorized agents to act according to the
instructions of and to perform duties as may be required of him or her in order
to enforce or put into effect the fire regulations.
(Prior Code, § 35.076)
   (C)   Assisting police upon request.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of every member of the fire force to assist
police officers in making arrests or quelling disturbances when called upon to
do so when away from company quarters.
      (2)   Whenever word is sent to any fire station asking for assistance to
the police, it shall be the duty of the commanding officer of the station to
detail as many members to assist the police as may be necessary for the
occasion; provided, that not less than the minimum number of members required
by rules of the fire force remain in the quarters for duty in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 35.077)
§ 34.007 FIRE STATION.
   (A)   Persons allowed to occupy fire station. Only fully accredited members
of the fire force shall occupy any part of the fire station. No person whose
status as a firefighter is in question by the Board of Public Works and Safety
shall be entitled to occupy any part of a fire station until his or her status
has been determined.
(Prior Code, § 35.110)
   (B)   Gambling prohibited. Gambling in any form shall not be permitted in
any fire station.
(Prior Code, § 35.111)
   (C)   Sanitary conditions required. Fire stations shall at all times be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition; snow and ice shall be cleaned from sidewalks
and to the center of the street where necessary; floors shall be kept clean and
rubbish and refuse promptly removed.
(Prior Code, § 35.112)
   (D)   Disturbances, noise prohibited. Members of the Fire Department, when
asleep in the sleeping rooms at proper times, shall not be unnecessarily
disturbed. Officers and firefighters of companies are instructed to prevent
loud and boisterous talking, laughing, and other noise about their respective
stations.
(Prior Code, § 35.113)
§ 34.008 CIVIL SERVICE SYSTEM; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Ord. 3339, retaining the Civil Service System for the City Fire
Department, was adopted December 30, 1982.
   (B)   That ordinance, as well as any subsequent amending ordinances, can be
found on file in the Office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 35.125) (Ord. 0-02-0010, passed 5-13-2002; Ord. 2013-0009,
passed 4-8-2013)
CHIEF
§ 34.020 APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the fire force shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall serve
at his or her pleasure. He or she shall meet the eligibility requirements
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 35.020)
§ 34.021 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have the management, command,
direction, and control of the Fire Department and emergency medical services,
and control over all matters relating thereto, subject to the rules and
regulations of the city, the provisions of law and this chapter. The Chief
shall also:
   (A)   Have the sole command at fires over all other persons, and shall take
all proper measures for the prevention or extinguishment of fires, the
protection of life and property, the preservation of order, and shall cause the
provisions of law, of this chapter, and regulations of the Fire Department to
be observed;
   (B)   Examine the condition of all fire stations, engines, and other
apparatus belonging to the city and used for the purposes of the fire force and
report thereon annually or as often as circumstances render it expedient or
when directed by the Mayor, Board of Public Works and Safety or the Common
Council;
   (C)   Report to the Board of Public Works and Safety whenever any of the
buildings, apparatus, or alarms used for the purposes of the fire force require
any alterations, additions, repairs, or replacements;
   (D)   Keep exact lists of his or her personnel and respective companies
specifying the time of admission and discharge, the age and full status of each
member, which he or she shall report to the Board and in an annual report to be
published in a manner as the Common Council may direct or request;
   (E)   Report all accidents by fire which may happen within the city, with
the cause thereof as well as can be ascertained and the number and description
of buildings destroyed or injured, together with the names of the owners or
occupants;
   (F)   Require strict training and schooling of the members of the force in
firefighting, fire prevention, first aid, lifesaving, and other relevant
subjects;
   (G)   Keep abreast of the times and be conversant with the newest and most
modem scientific methods of fire prevention, fire extinguishment, and
lifesaving; and make necessary plans and suggestions for the constant
improvement of the fire force for the protection of lives and property in the
city; and
   (H)   Require persons in charge of public, private, and parochial schools
and educational institutions to have regular fire drills.
(Prior Code, § 35.021) (Ord. 0-06-0011, passed 6-12-2006)
FIREFIGHTERS
§ 34.035 DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the firefighters of the several
companies to see that the machines and equipment committed to their charge, and
the buildings in which they are deposited and all things in and belonging to
the same are kept neat and clean and in order for immediate use.
      (2)   It shall be their duty to preserve order and discipline at all
times in their respective companies, and to require and enforce strict
compliance with this chapter and the rules and regulations of the Board of
Public Works and Safety concerning the Fire Department.
   (B)   At all times when on duty, whether at their stations or at fires, all
members of the several companies shall remain near the apparatus to which they
are respectively assigned unless they shall be otherwise engaged or are
specially excused by a superior officer.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be the duties of the officers and members of the
several companies whenever a fire shall break out in the city to go forthwith
to their respective fire apparatus and convey them to the place of the fire as
speedily and in as orderly a manner as possible and in conformity with the
directions of the Chief or other officers in command, to exert themselves in
the most orderly manner possible in working and managing the engines, hose,
hook, and ladder and other apparatus belonging to each company, respectively,
and in performing any duty they may be called upon to do by the Chief of his or
her assistants.
      (2)   Upon permission of the Chief or other commanding officers, each
company shall, in an orderly and quiet manner, return the machinery and other
apparatus to their respective stations; provided, that in the absence of the
Chief or his or her assistant, the Mayor, if present, may designate one of the
Captains to act as Chief for the time being.
(Prior Code, § 35.035)
§ 34.036 APPOINTMENT, DEMOTION, RESIGNATION.
   (A)   Members of the Fire Department shall be appointed exclusively by the
Board of Public Works and Safety. Applicants for membership in the city fire
force shall have reached their twenty-first birthday. The Board shall also have
exclusive power to promote and demote members of the fire force, and to remove,
fine, suspend, or penalize them in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   No member of the Fire Department, under penalty of forfeiture of the
salary or wages which may be due him or her, shall withdraw or resign from the
Department without sufficient cause, of which the Board of Public Works and
Safety shall be the judge, unless give ten days’ notice thereof to the Board,
and no person who shall have been removed for cause from the fire force shall
be reappointed to any position in the fire force.
   (C)   Whenever any member shall be permanently separated from the fire
force, he or she shall immediately deliver his or her badge and all other city
property in his or her possession to the proper officer.
(Prior Code, § 35.036) (Ord. 3183, passed - -1978)
§ 34.037 FIRE FORCE.
   (A)   Training. The members of the fire force shall attend school and be
instructed in firefighting, first aid, and fire prevention for periods in each
year which, in the judgment of the Chief, may be necessary for the proper
training of the fire force.
(Prior Code, § 35.037)
   (B)   Residency requirements for members. Members of the fire force shall
reside within the city, unless otherwise expressly permitted by law. If law
permits a member of the fire force to reside outside the city, he or she shall
hold no rank higher than that of a firefighter first class while he or she
remains a nonresident.
(Prior Code, § 35.038)
   (C)   Outside interests.
      (1)   Every member of the fire force shall devote his or her entire time
to the business of the fire force, and no regular, temporary, or special member
of the fire force shall engage in or be engaged or interested in, directly or
indirectly, any other business, enterprise, profession, or occupation.
      (2)   This provision, considered highly essential to the best public
interest, shall be strictly complied with and shall be rigidly enforced. Any
regular, temporary, or special member of the fire force who shall violate any
provision of this section shall be liable to removal in the manner provided by
law.
(Prior Code, § 35.034)
   (D)   Classifications of Service.
      (1)   The Council hereby reaffirms and restates that the City Fire
Department shall consist of two classifications of service, as follows:
         (a)   Fire Suppression Service; and
         (b)   Fire Prevention Bureau (also known as Fire Inspection Bureau).
      (2)   Assignments to the administrative office of the Fire Department
shall be deemed to be assignments within and among the Fire Suppression
Service.
   (E)   Ranks.
      (1)   Ranks; fire suppression. The following ranks are hereby restated
and reaffirmed, in descending order, for the Fire Suppression Service followed
by the authorized maximum number of places or positions within each rank:
Rank Number
Rank                                        Number
1. Fire Chief                               1
2. Deputy Chief                             1
3. Assistant Chief                          3
4. District Chief                           3
Rank                                        Number
5. Captain                                  15
6. Chauffeur                                18
7. Master Firefighter                       32
Total authorized Fire Suppression Personnel 73
 
      (2)   Ranks; fire prevention. The following ranks are hereby restated and
reaffirmed, in descending order, for the Fire Prevention Bureau followed by the
authorized maximum number of places or positions within each rank:
 
Rank                                       Number
1. Chief Inspector                         1
2. Inspector Captain                       1
3. Inspector                               1
Total authorized Fire Prevention Personnel Shall not exceed 3
 
      (3)   Reduction in staff accomplished through attrition. While the total
authorized Fire Prevention Personnel shall not exceed three, any necessary
reduction in staffing levels which may exist as of the date this section is
adopted shall be accomplished through attrition.
   (F)   Attainment of authorized staffing levels. Subject to the provisions of
division (G) below, from and after the taking effect of this section, a
firefighter who, at time of permanent separation from the Fire Department,
holds a civil service rank in which the total number of occupants of that rank
are in excess of the authorized number of positions for that rank as specified
in division (E) above, shall not be replaced by the Board of Public Safety.
Promotions of firefighters to a higher rank shall be made by the appointing
power only if there are sufficient places available under such authorized
number for that rank.
   (G)   Assignments to administrative positions. The Fire Chief shall make all
assignments of Fire Suppression Service personnel, and shall, with the approval
of the Mayor, assign Fire Department personnel to administrative duties. The
Mayor shall assign a member of the Fire Department to serve as Director of the
Department of Emergency Management and Communications.
(Ord. 12-0009, passed 4-23-2012; Ord. 15-0028, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 34.041 OFFICER ABSENCE OR DISABILITY; ASSUMPTION OF DUTIES.
   In case of absence or disability of any officer of the fire force, all the
power and authority of the officer shall devolve upon the officer next in rank,
unless the vacancy shall be filled by direct or temporary appointment.
(Prior Code, § 35.041)
§ 34.042 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS OF FIRE FORCE.
   (A)   (1)   All members of the fire force shall always be on duty for the
purpose of discipline and they shall not enter places where intoxicating
liquors are sold while dressed in Fire Department uniform.
      (2)   No member of the Fire Department shall loiter about taverns or
clubs or drink parlors or other places where intoxicating liquors are kept.
      (3)   No member shall bring or drink intoxicating liquors of any kind in
the quarters or on the premises or be a party to any proceeding or be under the
influence of liquor while on duty. Each member of the fire force shall keep in
good physical condition at all times and shall be available for emergency
service at any time.
   (B)   The highest moral and exemplary conduct shall be required of all
members of the fire force whether on active duty or not. No member of the fire
force shall be guilty of improper conduct at any time.
   (C)   Members of the fire force shall conform to and promptly and cheerfully
obey all laws, rules and regulations, and orders, whether general or special,
for the government of the fire force or Fire Department. Obedience to the
orders of a superior in rank must be faithfully observed and any member
offending in this regard will be held strictly accountable where the superior
officer had the right to give the order, unless the same has been countermanded
by the Chief or his or her assistant.
(Prior Code, § 35.042)
§ 34.043 UNIFORMS; EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every member of the Fire Department, while on duty, shall wear the
prescribed uniform of the force in a clean and neat condition.
   (B)   Every member, while on duty, shall wear a suitable helmet and badge
and insignia of office upon his or her uniform, which badge and the like, shall
be furnished by the city and prescribed by the Chief and approved by the Board
of Public Works and Safety, and shall wear no other badge, device, button, or
insignia on any part of the uniform save and except when authorized by the
Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (C)   Every member shall, while on the street in uniform, keep his or her
coat buttoned up all times and his or her shoes cleaned and polished. Any
member who loses, damages, or destroys his or her badge shall be required to
pay the cost of replacement.
(Prior Code, § 35.043)
§ 34.044 EFFICIENCY RATINGS AND MERIT ROLL; REWARDS FOR MERITORIOUS SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   The Fire Chief, subject to the approval of the Board of Public
Works and Safety, shall establish and maintain a uniform system for
ascertaining and recording the individual efficiency of each member of the
uniformed service.
      (2)   The system shall be as nearly automatic as possible and its
application shall be uniform throughout the force. Efficiency reports of
members of the uniformed service of the fire force shall be submitted to the
Board not later than December 15 of each year.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to cause a record to be kept,
to be known as the merit roll, upon which shall be entered the names of all the
members of the fire force who shall have performed any distinguishing acts of
bravery in the protection of life or property or any exceptionally meritorious
work. The record shall specify the details and circumstances of the acts, the
names of witnesses, if any, and all corroborating facts.
   (C)   (1)   The Chief, for meritorious service rendered by any member of the
fire force in the discharge of his or her duty, may permit, in writing, the
member to retain for his or her own benefit any reward or present tendered him
or her upon being notified prior to its receipt.
      (2)   It shall be cause for removal for any member to receive any reward
or present in this respect without notice to the Fire Chief and without his or
her written permission.
(Prior Code, § 35.044)
§ 34.045 FIREFIGHTERS’ PENSION FUND.
   (A)   There is established a Board of Trustees of the Firefighter’s Pension
Fund and a Firefighters’ Pension Fund under the provisions of I.C. 36-8-7.
   (B)   No member of the fire force who is on the pension roll or who is
receiving any benefit from the Pension Fund by reason of any disability or
injury shall be entitled to receive any part of his or her salary during the
time as he or she shall remain on the pension roll or receives any benefit
therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 35.045)
§ 34.046 VACATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have authority and it shall be his or
her duty to grant a vacation of 15 days in each year with full pay to all
officers, members, and employees in the uniformed service, unless withdrawn by
orders of the Board of Public Works and Safety for infractions, who have served
one year or more therein, and to fix the time when vacation shall be given in
each case; provided, that in the computation of the total time of service of
any member of the fire force, vacations or leaves of absence for over one month
shall be excluded from the total time of service of the member of the fire
force; provided further, that all members and employees of the fire force
shall, in addition to the vacations above provided for, have a vacation of one
day in seven days of each week with full pay.
(Prior Code, § 35.046)
§ 34.047 WORK SCHEDULES; WORKING DURING EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall, subject to the approval of the
Board of Public Works and Safety, arrange the working hours of the members of
the fire force in a manner that no member shall be required to be on duty more
than 24 hours in any consecutive 48 hours; provided that no member of the fire
force shall be required to work more than an average of 72 hours per week;
provided further that the Chief or any of his or her subordinate officers
acting in his or her official capacity may, in case of serious conflagration or
other emergency, require the members assigned to the Fire Department to be on
duty or to continue on duty during the period of the emergency.
   (B)   However, the previous provisions notwithstanding, the work schedule
for all fire suppression personnel shall in all cases consist of a duty shift
of 24 consecutive hours on-duty, followed by 48 consecutive hours off-duty.
(Prior Code, § 35.047) (Ord. 19-0029, passed 12-26-2019)
§ 34.048 SLEEPING HOURS WHEN ON DUTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   No member of the Fire Department shall be permitted to occupy his or her bed
in any of the Department houses between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.,
except in case of sickness or fatigue from duty the night or day previous or
upon special permission.
(Prior Code, § 35.048)
§ 34.049 FALSE REPORTS REGARDING MEMBERS OF FIRE FORCE.
   No member of the Fire Department shall wantonly or maliciously make any
false reports regarding any other member, either as to any offense or as to the
business of the force, calculated to create disturbances, or to bring any
member of the force into discredit.
(Prior Code, § 35.049)
EQUIPMENT
§ 34.060 RETURNING EQUIPMENT OF OTHER FIRE COMPANIES.
   Any company of the Fire Department on return from a fire, finding that it
has a hose or any other article belonging to another company, shall report the
same to its superior officer who shall see that the property is returned to the
company to which it belongs.
(Prior Code, § 35.060)
§ 34.061 CARE OF FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   The fire hose of any fire company shall not be taken off the reel for
drying or draining purposes unless a special permit is first granted by the
Chief or his or her assistant.
   (B)   (1)   The Captain of each hose company shall see that the couplings
are well secured against leaking and that each male coupling will fit well in
the branch pipe.
      (2)   He or she shall also see that his or her firefighters reel up all
hose belonging to his or her company after service, unless otherwise ordered by
competent authority.
(Prior Code, § 35.061)
§ 34.062 CARE OF CITY PROPERTY.
   The officers of the Fire Department shall have full charge of all the
property of the city belonging to the Fire Department under the direction of
the Chief and his or her assistant.
(Prior Code, § 35.062)
§ 34.063 OBSTRUCTION TO FIRE HYDRANTS.
   The fire force may, at the risk, cost, and expense of the owner or claimant
thereof, remove any obstructions to fire hydrants existing contrary to public
safety or the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 35.063)
FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU
§ 34.075 ESTABLISHED; SUPERVISION; PURPOSE.
   There is established a Fire Prevention Bureau in the Fire Department, which
shall be under the immediate direction and supervision of a Fire Inspector and
other members of the fire force assigned thereto by the Chief. Since timely
prevention of fires is preferable to extinguishment, the scope of the work and
the activity of this Bureau shall be enlarged, as required, to meet changing
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 35.090)
§ 34.076 CHIEF OF FIRE PREVENTION BUREAU.
   The Chief in charge of the Fire Prevention Bureau shall be appointed by the
Mayor and the Board of Public Works and Safety of the city. His or her
appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service and he
or she shall not be removed from office except for cause after public trial.
(Prior Code, § 35.091)
§ 34.077 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Bureau shall maintain the records of all
inspections including dates, summary of violations, if any, which are found to
exist, the date of serving of notice of violations, as required by this
subchapter, together with memorandum of the final disposition of all violations
found to exist and all other records and transactions of the Bureau, including
facts concerning fires and pertinent statistics.
   (B)   The records of the Fire Prevention Bureau shall be open, at all times,
to the inspection of the Mayor, Commissioners of Public Safety, and members of
the Common Council. The Fire Prevention Bureau shall maintain records of all
orders and notices issued.
(Prior Code, § 35.092)
§ 34.078 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Regular inspections shall be made of all buildings, structures, or
places used either for manufacturing or commercial purposes or occupied or
frequented by large numbers of people and of all school buildings, public
halls, churches, institutional buildings, theaters, multiple dwellings, and all
places of amusement, recreation, or employment in order to:
      (1)   Determine the safety of the occupants of the buildings, structures,
or places in the event of fire panic;
      (2)   Examine the working order and repair of all doors, fire escapes,
firefighting appliances; the condition and maintenance of exits, corridors,
aisles, stairways, and fire escapes and their approaches with regard to
obstructions; the disposition, quantity, arrangement, and protection of stock,
combustible material and rubbish, heating devices and ovens, flammable liquids,
and explosives with regard to safety from fire; the protection of hazardous
machinery, appliances, and apparatus; and
      (3)   Ascertain whether there has been compliance with the fire
regulations.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Prevention Bureau to cause an
examination of any building, structure, or place when any citizen reports that
any of the fire regulations are being violated or that division (A) above is
being or will be violated or that conditions maintained in a manner as to be a
fire menace or dangerous in case of fire, panic, or accident. If the
representation is found to be true, the Inspector shall give the notice
required.
   (C)   The Fire Prevention Bureau shall cease examinations to be made,
whether on complaint or not, of all other buildings and premises within the
city for the purpose of ascertaining or causing to be corrected any conditions
liable to cause fire or the violations of any fire regulations. Whenever the
Inspector shall find any building or other structure which, for want of
repairs, lack of sufficient fire escapes or fire extinguishing equipment or by
reason of age or dilapidated condition or from any other cause, is especially
liable to fire, and which is so situated as to endanger other property or the
occupants thereof, and whenever he or she shall find in any building,
combustible or explosive matter or flammable conditions dangerous to the safety
of the building or the occupants thereof, he or she shall order the dangerous
conditions or materials to be removed or remedied.
(Prior Code, § 35.093)
§ 34.079 DUTIES OF FIRE INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Fire Inspector shall investigate the cause, origin, and
circumstances of fires and shall enforce this chapter and all ordinances and
laws covering the prevention of fires; the storage and use of explosives and
flammables; the installation and maintenance of automatic and other private
fire alarm systems and fire extinguishing equipment; the maintenance and
regulation of fire escapes; the means and adequacy of exits in case of fire or
panic places where numbers of persons work, live, or congregate, from time to
time, for any purpose.
   (B)   The Fire Inspector shall interpret the fire regulations of this
chapter and harmonize them with the building code and shall make no
requirements which are contrary to and inconsistent with the building code,
except temporarily during periods of extreme emergency and shall have power to
pass upon questions arising under the fire regulations of this chapter subject
to the conditions and regulations contained in this chapter. If a difference of
opinion arises between the Inspector and the Building Commissioner or the head
of any other bureau, division, or part of the city as to the correct
interpretation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the question shall be
submitted to the City Attorney, who shall present his or her opinion as soon as
possible. Whenever the decision of the Inspector concerning the safety of the
occupancy of any building or place or part thereof is made in a case which is
so urgent that the failure to carry out his or her orders properly to make any
building, place, or part thereof comply with the applicable fire regulations
may endanger life and limb, the decision or order of the Inspector shall be
final, unless modified by the Chief.
   (C)   The Inspector shall enter a building, structure, or premises, whether
completed or in the course of construction, for the purpose of determining
whether they are being constructed or maintained in accordance with the
applicable fire regulations. It shall be unlawful to exclude him or her from
any building, structure, or premises.
(Prior Code, § 35.094) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 34.080 REPORT OF STRUCTURAL INSTABILITIES OF BUILDINGS.
   The Fire Inspector shall report to the Mayor, Board of Public Works and
Safety, and Building Commissioner regarding the structural instability of any
building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 35.095)
§ 34.081 NOTICE OF HAZARDS; COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER TO REMEDY VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In case it is found by the Fire Prevention Bureau or the Fire
Inspector that any fire regulations are being violated or that any building,
structure, or place or its contents or any appliance or equipment thereof is in
a condition as to be the probable cause of fire or is likely to endanger life
or safety in case of fire, panic, or other accident, the Inspector shall give
notice, in writing, to the owner, occupant, lessee, or person in possession,
charge, or control of the building, structure, or place to make the changes,
alterations, or repairs or to perform the work or to take action as the safety
of persons in or about the places may require within a time as shall be
designated by the Inspector. In case the changes, alterations, repairs, or
requirements ordered by notices of the Fire Prevention Bureau are not made or
performed to the satisfaction of the Inspector within the time specified in the
notice, he or she shall make returns of the violations or of any default of the
notice to the City Attorney for action or prosecution.
   (B)   The notice may be made upon the occupant of the premises to whom it is
directed, either by delivering a copy to the occupant personally or by
delivering and leaving it with any person in charge of the premises. In case no
such person is found upon the premises, the notice may be affixed in a
conspicuous place on the door to the entrance of the premises.
   (C)   Whenever it may be necessary to serve a notice or order upon the owner
of the premises, the notice or order may be served either by delivering to and
leaving with the owner a copy of the order or, if the owner is absent from the
city, the Inspector may mail a copy to the owner’s last known post office
address.
   (D)   (1)   The order stated in the notice shall forthwith be complied with
by the owner or occupant or person in possession or control of the building,
premises, or structure, unless a different or extended period of time is
specified in the notice; provided, that any person upon whom a notice has been
served may petition the Chief of the fire force or Board of Public Works and
Safety or both to investigate the order.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Chief or Board to hear the same and to
make an order as justice may require.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of all persons to comply with lawful orders of
the Fire Prevention Bureau.
(Prior Code, § 35.096)
§ 34.082 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Bureau shall investigate the cause, origin, and
circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which property has been
destroyed or damaged and of every person injury that has sustained and, so far
as possible, shall determine whether the fire is the result of carelessness or
design.
   (B)   (1)   The investigations shall be begun by the Fire Inspector
immediately upon the occurrence of a fire.
      (2)   If it appears that the fire is of a suspicious origin, the Chief
shall be notified immediately of the facts and he or she shall take immediate
charge of the physical evidence and shall notify the proper authorities to
pursue the investigation of those matters and shall further cooperate with the
authorities in the collection of evidence and with the prosecution of the case.
Every fire shall be reported in writing to the Fire Prevention Bureau within
two days after the occurrence by the officer in charge at the fire.
   (C)   The report shall be in a form as shall be prescribed by the Chief and
shall contain a statement of all facts relating to the cause, origin, and
circumstances of the fire, the extent of the damage or injuries sustained, the
insurance upon the property, and other information as may be required.
(Prior Code, § 35.097)
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (HAZ-MAT) RESPONSE TEAM
§ 34.095 CREATED.
   There is created within the City Fire Department a team of specially trained
firefighters to deal with spills or leaks of hazardous or toxic materials and
other potentially dangerous situations involving hazardous or toxic materials
with the city, which team shall be known as the City Haz-Mat Team. This Haz-Mat
Team is an emergency effort to immediately respond to the hazardous wastes and
toxic problems and to contain, if possible, the spillages, leaks, or other
conditions which have created a hazardous situation until the time as the
responsible parties and/or other agencies have taken responsibility of the
situation and the emergency condition no longer exists. The ultimate
responsibility for clean-up, transportation, and disposal of hazardous wastes
caused by spillage, leaks, or other causes rests with the owner and/or
custodian of the hazardous wastes and they are also responsible for damages
caused to human life, real or personal property as a result of spillages,
leaks, or other causes.
(Prior Code, § 35.125) (Ord. 3501, passed - -1989)
§ 34.096 HAZ-MAT TEAM RESPONSE; REIMBURSEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Owners and custodians (including shippers and users) who cause or
suffer spillage, leaks, or other potentially dangerous situations involving
hazardous or toxic materials within the city to which the City Haz-Mat Team
responds, shall reimburse the city within 30 days of billing for the Team’s
equipment, whether used and returned, used and discarded, damaged, lost, spent,
destroyed, or rendered irreparable.
   (B)   The city will provide a detailed itemized bill of all items and will
also include any telephone calls of long distance nature made during the course
of the operation. The city shall also be reimbursed for the total hours
involved in the response and will furnish a complete itemized statement of the
hours worked and the rates of pay.
(Prior Code, § 35.126) (Ord. 3501, passed - -1989)
§ 34.097 CLEAN-UP CONTRACTORS; REIMBURSEMENT RESPONSIBILITY.
   Owners and custodians (including shippers and users) who caused or suffered
leaks or spills of potentially dangerous conditions involving hazardous or
toxic materials within the city, for the cleanup of which outside clean-up
contractors must be called in, in the determination of the chief officer or
designee, shall assume and bear full responsibility for the payment for the
clean-up and expenses directly to the clean-up contractors.
(Prior Code, § 35.127) (Ord. 3501, passed - -1989)
§ 34.098 BILLING RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The City Fire Department shall be responsible for billing any charges
due the city for services rendered under this subchapter.
   (B)   Owners and custodians (shippers and owners) who fail to reimburse the
city within 30 days after receiving an itemized bill has been rendered and
payment demanded on this account stated shall be charged at a rate of interest
of 8% per annum until paid.
(Prior Code, § 35.128) (Ord. 3501, passed - -1989)
CHAPTER 35: CITY COURT
Section
   
35.001   Judicial power; court of record
   
35.002   Name and seal
   
35.003   Jurisdiction generally
   
35.004   Traffic Violations Division
   
35.005   When sessions of Court to be held
   
35.006   Personal fees of certain officers
   
35.007   Appeals
   
35.008   City Judge
   
35.009   Bailiffs
   
35.010   Probation officer
   
35.011   City Court reporter
   
35.012   Case management system
§ 35.001 JUDICIAL POWER; COURT OF RECORD.
   The judicial power of the city shall be vested in the City Court, which
shall be a court of record.
(Prior Code, § 36.001)
§ 35.002 NAME AND SEAL.
   The name and style of the Court shall be: “The City Court of the City of
East Chicago” and the seal shall contain the words “City Court of East Chicago,
Indiana.”
(Prior Code, § 36.002)
§ 35.003 JURISDICTION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Code and city ordinances. The City Court shall have exclusive original
jurisdiction of all violations of this code and city ordinances.
   (B)   Criminal.
      (1)   The City Court shall exercise within the county the powers and
jurisdiction of a justice of the peace in all cases of crime or misdemeanor,
except when otherwise provided by law.
      (2)   The City Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of the trial of
all misdemeanors constituting violations of the motor vehicles and traffic code
and highway traffic ordinances of the city and laws of the state, subject to
right of appeal.
      (3)   The City Court shall have original concurrent jurisdiction with the
circuit or criminal court in all cases of petit larceny and all other
violations of state law where the penalty provided therefor cannot exceed a
fine in an amount as set by the city from time to time and imprisonment in the
jail or workhouse not exceeding one year or either or both; provided, that the
City Judge, in a criminal case before him or her, if he or she is of the
opinion that the maximum penalty which he or she is authorized to assess is not
adequate may so find and hold the prisoner to bail for his or her appearance
before the proper court or commit him or her to jail in default of bail.
   (C)   Civil.
      (1)   The City Court shall have jurisdiction of civil cases as provided
by state law.
      (2)   The Court shall have the powers and duties as specified in state
law.
(Prior Code, § 36.003)
§ 35.004 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS DIVISION.
   (A)   The City Judge shall establish a Traffic Violations Division as a part
of the City Court to assist the Court with the clerical work of traffic cases.
   (B)   The Traffic Violations Division shall be in the charge of the City
Clerk and shall be open at times and hours as are recommended by the Clerk and
approved by the City Judge.
(Prior Code, § 36.004)
§ 35.005 WHEN SESSIONS OF COURT TO BE HELD.
   The City Judge shall hold sessions of Court as he or she may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 36.005)
§ 35.006 PERSONAL FEES OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
   The City Judge, Clerk of the City Court, and bailiffs or probation officer
shall not receive any personal fees or compensation whatsoever, other than
their respective salaries.
(Prior Code, § 36.006)
§ 35.007 APPEALS.
   (A)   Civil actions. Appeals from City Court in civil actions shall be taken
to the Circuit or Superior Court in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 36.020)
   (B)   Criminal actions. In criminal actions appeal may be taken from the
judgment of the City Court to the Criminal Court of the county in the same
manner as provided by law for appeals from a justice of the peace.
(Prior Code, § 36.021)
§ 35.008 CITY JUDGE.
   (A)   Election; term of office. The presiding officer of the City Court
shall be the City Judge who shall be elected by the legal voters of the city at
the time and in the same manner as other city officers are elected for a term
of four years and shall serve until his or her successor is elected and
qualified. His or her term shall begin at 12:00 p.m. on January 1 following his
or her election.
(Prior Code, § 36.035)
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The City Judge shall have power to assess a fine in a sum not
exceeding an amount as set by the city from time to time for the violation of
any law. He or she may, in addition, order imprisonment, as a part of the
sentence, for any period not exceeding six months in the county jail.
      (2)   The City Judge shall have power to suspend or withhold judgment in
any case where any person shall have been convicted or shall have entered a
plea of guilty, as now provided by law for circuit and criminal courts.
      (3)   The City Judge shall have power and authority to make and adopt
rules of Court not repugnant to the laws of the state. He or she shall have all
powers incident to a court of record in relation to the attendance of
witnesses, the punishment of contempts and enforcing its orders. He or she
shall have full authority to administer oaths and to authenticate records of
the Court.
      (4)   In case of a temporary absence or inability of the regular City
Judge to act, he or she shall appoint any practicing and reputable attorney to
preside in his or her absence, who shall receive compensation allowed special
judges in the Circuit Court, to be paid out of the city treasury on the
certificate of the regular judge and the warrant of the City Controller.
(Prior Code, § 36.036)
§ 35.009 BAILIFFS.
   (A)   Appointment; salary. Bailiffs of the City Court shall be appointed by
and serve as provided by state law, and they shall serve and execute all
processes issued by the Court and shall receive a salary, in full for all
services rendered therein, in an amount to be fixed by the Common Council. The
number of bailiffs shall be determined by the Common Council, upon the
recommendation of the City Judge, in the annual budget.
(Prior Code, § 36.050)
   (B)   Powers and duties. Bailiffs shall be present at all sessions of the
City Court, maintain order therein, and perform all other duties subject to the
order of the Court. He or she shall have and exercise powers and duties of a
constable, as prescribed by law, shall take charge of all executions issued by
the City Court and see to the collection of the same, except as otherwise
provided. He or she shall keep, in books to be approved by the City Controller,
an accurate account and docket of all executions which may come into his or her
hands showing the names of the defendants, date and number of the execution,
amount of fines, fees, or penalties imposed, and the disposition of the
execution. He or she shall make out and deliver written reports to the Clerk of
the City Court on Tuesday of each week, showing all monies collected by him or
her during the previous week, giving the names of the defendants, number of
executions, amount of fines, fees, or penalties collected, and forthwith pay
the monies to the Clerk and take the Clerk’s receipt therefor.
(Prior Code, § 36.051)
§ 35.010 PROBATION OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment; compensation; qualifications.
      (1)   The City Judge may appoint a probation officer to serve in the City
Court by making the appointment in writing and by entering it upon the court
records. The probation officer shall serve at the pleasure of the City Judge at
an annual salary to be fixed by the City Judge at an amount not exceeding that
permitted by law.
      (2)   To be eligible for appointment as a probation officer, persons must
be certified by the Probation Department of the state as being qualified by
having passed a competitive examination or must be eligible in any other manner
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 36.065)
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The probation officer shall investigate all cases referred to him
or her and shall report thereon to the City Judge. He or she shall furnish to
each person released on probation under his or her supervision a written
statement of the conditions of probation and shall instruct him or her
regarding them. He or she shall keep informed concerning the conduct and
condition of each person on probation under his or her supervision by visiting,
by requiring reports, and in other ways, and shall report thereon at least
monthly to the Court. He or she shall use all suitable methods, not
inconsistent with the conditions imposed by the Court, to aid and encourage
persons on probation to bring about improvement in their conduct and condition.
      (2)   The probation officer, with the approval of the appointing judge,
may act as parole officer over persons released from any correctional
institution, upon the request or with the consent of the authority thereof.
      (3)   The probation officer shall keep a detailed record of his or her
work and accurate and complete accounts of all money collected from persons
under his or her supervision. He or she shall give receipts therefor and shall
report to the Court thereon, and shall perform other duties as the Court may
require.
      (4)   The probation officer shall have, in the execution of his or her
duties, the powers of a constable or County Sheriff, insofar as the powers may
be necessary to carry out the provisions of I.C. 35-71-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 36.066)
§ 35.011 CITY COURT REPORTER.
   (A)   Generally. There is created the position of City Court reporter. The
City Court reporter shall be appointed by the City Judge if the Common Council
first fixes a salary and appropriates funds therefor, subject to approval by
resolution of at least two-thirds of the members-elect of the Common Council.
He or she shall serve at the pleasure of the City Judge and shall be under his
or her general jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 36.080)
   (B)   Compensation. The City Court reporter shall receive the annual salary
provided in the annual budget.
(Prior Code, § 36.081)
   (C)   Qualifications. The person appointed as City Court reporter shall be
highly qualified and capable of transcribing and taking down, in shorthand or
stenotype, the evidence given in a cause and shall perform other kindred
functions of a competent court reporter.
(Prior Code, § 36.082)
   (D)   Duties.
      (1)   Whenever requested by the Judge, the City Court reporter shall be
present in Court, shall take down in shorthand or stenotype the oral evidence
given in all causes, including both questions and answers, shall note all
rulings of the Judge in respect to the admission or rejection of evidence and
the objections thereto, and shall write out the instructions of the Court in
jury trials.
      (2)   When requested by resolution of the Common Council or the Board of
Public Works and Safety, the City Court reporter shall report special matters
of the bodies.
(Prior Code, § 36.083)
   (E)   Administering oaths. Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Court
reporter is authorized and empowered to administer oaths generally and to take
and certify affidavits, examinations, and depositions. In the event the acts
are not permitted by law, the City Court reporter shall, before performing any
acts or duties, obtain a commission as a notary public.
(Prior Code, § 36.084)
   (F)   Furnishing transcripts.
      (1)   Whenever, in any cause, the City Court reporter shall be requested
to furnish either party a transcript of all or any part of the proceedings
required by him or her to be taken, including all documentary evidence, it
shall be his or her duty to furnish the same in typewriting as soon after being
requested to do so as practicable, and he or she shall certify the same and
state whether the transcript contains all or part of the evidence given.
      (2)   The City Court reporter may require payment for transcript
requested by either party to a cause or may require satisfactory security
before he or she commences the preparation of the transcript.
      (3)   The City Court reporter may charge as fees an amount as set by the
city from time to time per folio of 100 words, for making and furnishing
transcripts, to be paid by the party requiring the transcript. The reporter
shall not charge in excess of the fees herein permitted, under penalty of
immediate removal from his or her position and under further penalties provided
for violations of this chapter.
      (4)   The Department of Law shall not be required to pay the fees for the
preparation of a transcript in any cause in which the city shall be interested
and in which the City Court reporter shall have taken down the evidence, nor
shall any charge be made for transcripts for the Board of Public Works and
Safety or the Common Council.
      (5)   Any indigent person desiring to appeal to the Circuit or Superior
Court from a decision of the City Court or the Judge thereof, who upon filing
an affidavit setting forth facts showing his or her inability to pay for or to
secure the payment of the transcript of evidence taken in shorthand, may be
provided with a transcript upon written order of the Judge to the reporter.
(Prior Code, § 36.085)
§ 35.012 CASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Common Council approves and supports the implementation of the
statewide Odyssey case management system for the City Court, and finds that the
implementation of Odyssey is in the best interests of the city.
   (B)   Decisions regarding scheduling of implementation or allocation of
court personnel and resources not involving the appropriation or transfer of
funds shall be made by the City Judge.
(Ord. 17-0014, passed 6-12-2017)
CHAPTER 36: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT; CIVIL DEFENSE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.001   Definitions
Proclamation of Emergency
   
36.015   Authority of Mayor
   
36.016   Effective date
   
36.017   Termination; extensions
   
36.018   Compliance
Defense Procedures
   
36.030   Powers of Mayor
   
36.031   Civil Defense Council
   
36.032   Civil defense plan
   
36.033   Mutual aid agreements
   
36.034   Enforcement of orders of Governor or Mayor
   
36.035   Mobile reserve battalions
   
36.036   Special police
   
36.037   Utilization of municipal services, facilities
   
36.038   Federal and private aid
   
36.039   Expenditures of funds
   
36.040   Liability for death, personal injury, or property damage
   
36.041   False air raid signals
   
36.042   Lights displayed contrary to chapter
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL DEFENSE. The preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily
responsible, the minimizing and repairing of injury and damage resulting from
disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or by fire,
flood, earthquake, or other natural causes. These functions shall include,
without limitations, firefighting services, police services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, air raid warning, communications and
radiological services, excavation of persons from stricken areas, emergency
welfare services, civilian war aid, emergency transportation, existing, or
properly assigned functions of plant protection, temporary restoration of
public utility services, and other functions related to civilian protection,
together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation
for and carrying out of the foregoing functions.
   MOBILE RESERVE BATTALION. An organization for civil defense, created in
accordance with the provisions of law, to be dispatched by the Governor to
supplement local organizations for civil defense in a stricken area.
(Prior Code, § 37.01)
PROCLAMATION OF EMERGENCY
§ 36.015 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR.
   Whenever, in the judgment of the Mayor, or, in the event of his or her
inability to act, the President of the Common Council, it is determined that an
emergency exists as a result of mob action or other civil disobedience causing
danger of injury to or damages to persons or property, the Mayor shall have
power to impose by proclamation any or all of the following regulations
necessary to preserve the peace and order of the city:
   (A)   To impose a curfew upon all or any portion of the city, thereby
requiring all persons in designated curfew areas to forthwith remove themselves
from the public streets, alleys, parks, or other public places; provided, that
physicians, nurses, and ambulance operators performing medical services,
utility personnel maintaining essential public services, firefighters, and city
authorized or requested law enforcement officers and personnel may be exempted
from the curfew;
   (B)   To order the closing of any business establishments anywhere within
the city for the period of the emergency, the businesses to include, but not be
limited to, those selling intoxicating liquors, cereal malt beverages,
gasoline, or firearms;
   (C)   To designate any public street, thoroughfare, or vehicle parking areas
closed to motor vehicles and pedestrian traffic; and
   (D)   To call upon regular and auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the city to assist in preserving and keeping
the peace within the city.
(Prior Code, § 37.15)
§ 36.016 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The proclamation of emergency provided in §
36.015 shall become effective upon its issuance and dissemination to the public
by appropriate news media.
(Prior Code, § 37.16)
§ 36.017 TERMINATION; EXTENSIONS.
   Any emergency proclaimed in accordance with the provisions of §
36.015 shall terminate after 48 hours from the issuance thereof or upon the
issuance of a proclamation determining an emergency no longer exists, whichever
occurs first; provided, that the emergency may be extended for additional
periods of time as may be determined necessary by the Mayor or, in his or her
inability to act, the President of the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 37.17)
§ 36.018 COMPLIANCE.
   Any person who shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with the orders of
duly authorized law enforcement officers or personnel charged with the
responsibility of enforcing the proclamation of emergency authorized in §
36.015 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 37.18) Penalty, see § 10.99
DEFENSE PROCEDURES
§ 36.030 POWERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have power to determine upon a system of signals and
warnings to the city reasonably calculated to cause notice of emergency or
threatened emergency requiring civil defense.
   (B)   The Mayor, for the same purpose, shall have power to require the
extinguishment or controlling of lights visible in the city, to prescribe rules
and regulations for the cessation or the movement of traffic, and, in general,
to require conduct necessary for proper civil defense and to prohibit conduct
which is inimical to the public safety. The Mayor shall, whenever possible,
promulgate and make available the rules and regulations so that disobedience to
them may be avoided.
(Prior Code, § 37.30)
§ 36.031 CIVIL DEFENSE COUNCIL.
   (A)   There is created the City Civil Defense Council which shall perform
civil defense functions primarily within the city and secondarily within the
territorial limits of the county; provided, that the jurisdiction of the City
Civil Defense Council may be further extended in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve as Chairperson of the City Civil Defense Council
and shall appoint a Director of Civil Defense who shall be responsible for the
efficient organization, administration, and operation of the City Civil Defense
Council, subject to the control of the Mayor and the Governor.
   (C)   The Mayor shall also appoint city officials and employees who shall
serve the City Civil Defense Council without additional compensation. Clerical,
stenographic, administrative, and other assistance shall be performed by city
employees without additional compensation whenever possible. The Mayor shall
also appoint a codirector, legal counsel, deputy directors, advisory council,
and other assistants, departmental heads, and employees as may be necessary to
meet operational requirements necessary to carry out the civil defense program.
Membership in the City Civil Defense Council shall not be limited to municipal
personnel and volunteer civil defense workers shall be encouraged. All members
of the City Civil Defense Council shall be appointed by the Mayor and shall
serve at his or her pleasure.
(Prior Code, § 37.31)
§ 36.032 CIVIL DEFENSE PLAN.
   The Director and the City Civil Defense Council shall prepare and provide a
detailed plan for as nearly adequate civil defense for the city that they may
possibly make. They shall make all necessary surveys and suggest necessary
legislation whenever they find that there is inadequate enabling authority. The
civil defense personnel shall be fully trained and the plan shall be fully
developed and practiced for emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 37.32)
§ 36.033 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Director of the City Civil Defense Council shall, in
collaboration with the federal unit defense agency and neighboring local
agencies, develop or cause to be developed mutual aid arrangements for
reciprocal civil defense aid and assistance in case of disaster too great to be
dealt with unassisted.
      (2)   The arrangements shall be consistent with the state civil defense
program and shall be subject to approval by the Governor and the Mayor. In
emergencies, it shall be the duty of the City Civil Defense Council to render
assistance in accordance with the provisions of the mutual aid arrangements.
   (B)   The Director may, subject to approval of the Governor, enter into
mutual aid arrangements with civil defense agencies in the state for reciprocal
civil defense aid and assistance in case of disaster too great to be dealt with
unassisted.
(Prior Code, § 37.33)
§ 36.034 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDERS OF GOVERNOR OR MAYOR.
   It shall be the duty of the City Civil Defense Council and its officers and
employees to execute and enforce the orders, rules, and regulations made by the
Mayor and the Governor under authority of law; and the orders, rules, and
regulations shall be made available to the City Civil Defense Council and to
its officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 37.34)
§ 36.035 MOBILE RESERVE BATTALIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire and Police Departments to cooperate and to
assign personnel from their respective departments to the mobile reserve
battalion for and pursuant to law upon orders of the Governor. While in
service, the personnel of the Police and Fire Departments, whether serving
within or without the city limits, shall have the powers, duties, rights,
privileges, and immunities, and receive the compensation incidental to their
employment. The Governor may, at his or her discretion, declare that a state of
emergency exists within any given area within this state and the declaration
shall authorize the sending of any mobile reserve battalion or municipal
employees and municipally owned equipment into the emergency area to render aid
as may be needed.
(Prior Code, § 37.35)
§ 36.036 SPECIAL POLICE.
   The Mayor may appoint for a specified time as many special police, without
pay, from among residents of the city as may be deemed advisable for service in
connection with civil defense. The special police must wear an identifying
emblem as may be prescribed by the Mayor. It is unlawful for any special police
to attempt to carry out any order, rule, or regulation promulgated under the
authority conferred by this chapter when he or she is not wearing the
identifying emblem.
(Prior Code, § 37.36) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 36.037 UTILIZATION OF MUNICIPAL SERVICES, FACILITIES.
   In carrying out civil defense, the Mayor is directed to utilize the
services, equipment, supplies, and facilities of existing departments, offices,
and agencies of the city to the maximum extent practicable, and the officers
and personnel of all departments, offices, and agencies are directed to
cooperate with and extend the facilities to the Governor and to the civil
defense organizations of the state upon request.
(Prior Code, § 37.37)
§ 36.038 FEDERAL AND PRIVATE AID.
   (A)   Whenever the federal government shall offer to the city services,
equipment, supplies, materials, or funds by way of gifts, grant, or loan for
purposes of civil defense, the city, with the consent of the Governor and
through the Mayor or Common Council, may accept the offer and, upon the
acceptance, the Mayor or Common Council may authorize any officer of the city
to receive the services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds on behalf of
the city and subject to the terms of the offer and the rules and regulations,
if any, of the agency making the offer.
   (B)   Whenever any person shall offer to the city services, equipment,
supplies, materials, or funds by way of gift, grant, or loan for purposes of
civil defense, the city, with the consent of the Governor and through the Mayor
or Common Council, may accept the offer and, upon the acceptance, the Mayor or
Common Council may authorize any officer of the city to receive the services,
equipment, supplies, materials, or funds on behalf of the city and subject to
the terms of the offer.
(Prior Code, § 37.38)
§ 36.039 EXPENDITURES OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be authorized to expend and required to account for,
in the manner now provided by law, money which has been appropriated by the
Common Council, whether received by gift or otherwise, for necessary civil
defense purposes.
   (B)   All money so expended shall be paid out of the treasury only upon
presentation of claim vouchers executed upon forms approved by the State Board
of Accounts.
(Prior Code, § 37.39)
§ 36.040 LIABILITY FOR DEATH, PERSONAL INJURY, OR PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   Neither the city, its agents, employees, or representatives when engaged in
any civil defense activities while complying with or attempting to comply with
civil defense laws or provisions of this chapter or any lawful rule or
regulation thereunder shall be liable for the death of or any injury to any
person or damage to property as a result of the activity. This shall not affect
the right of any person to receive benefits under the worker’s compensation law
or any pension law.
(Prior Code, § 37.40)
§ 36.041 FALSE AIR RAID SIGNALS.
   It is unlawful to order, utter, publish, sound, or otherwise simulate or
cause to be ordered, uttered, published, sounded, or otherwise simulated any
air raid warning signal, unless ordered or authorized to do so by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 37.41) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 36.042 LIGHTS DISPLAYED CONTRARY TO CHAPTER.
   Any light displayed contrary to the provisions of this chapter or contrary
to any order, rule, or regulation promulgated pursuant hereto shall constitute
a public nuisance and in the public interest may be abated summarily as such.
(Prior Code, § 37.42) Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 37: CITY CONTRACTS
Section
City Contracts
   
37.001   Construction contracts to provide for resident employment
   
37.002   Definitions
   
37.003   Minimum percentage
   
37.004   Compliance
   
37.005   Contracts; local hiring ordinance to be included; compliance required
   
37.006   Affidavit of East Chicago Residency Hiring
   
37.007   Contracts; forms; drafting authority
   
37.008   Monetary damages
   
37.009   Minimum requirements
Equal Employment Opportunity
   
37.020   Equal employment opportunity goals
   
37.021   Employment of formula
   
37.022   Goals to apply to projects funded entirely by the city
   
37.023   Formula
   
37.024   Goals to apply to projects subsidized by federal revenues
   
37.025   Deductions
   
37.026   Contractor’s submissions, reporting, and compliance
   
37.027   Prevailing wage range
   
37.028   Use of monetary damages
   
37.029   Hiring requirements
Project Labor Agreements
   
37.040   Policy
   
37.041   Language required for all solicitations for bids
   
37.042   Language required for any instructions to bidders
   
37.043   Enforcement
   
37.044   Additional provisions
Responsible Bidding Practices
   
37.055   Bid submission requirements
   
37.056   Post-bid submissions from subcontractors
   
37.057   Validity of pre-qualification classification
   
37.058   Incomplete submissions by bidders
   
37.059   Responsive and responsible bidder determination
   
37.060   Certified payroll
   
37.061   Public records
 
   
37.999   Penalty
CITY CONTRACTS
§ 37.001 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS TO PROVIDE FOR RESIDENT EMPLOYMENT.
   For all non-specialized construction contracts and nonexempt specialized
contracts, as determined by the Board of Public Works and Safety, having an
estimated contract value of an amount as set by the city from time to time, and
where not otherwise prohibited by federal, state, or local law the total hours
worked by persons relative to the project by employees of the contractor and
its subcontractors shall be performed at least 50% by actual residents of the
city. Henceforth, the total workforce hours of all employees hired by the
contractor and its subcontractors in the categories of skilled and nonskilled
jobs, or any combination thereof, for all non-specialized construction
contracts and nonexempt specialized contracts, as determined by the Board of
Public Works and Safety, shall be performed by at least 50% actual residents of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 39.01) (Ord. 0-04-0005, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0020, passed
6-13-2005)
§ 37.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTUAL RESIDENTS OF THE CITY. Persons domiciled within the city. The
domicile is an individual’s one and only true, fixed and permanent home and
principal establishment.
   AWARD CRITERIA WORKSHEET. The worksheet that contractors must submit with
every bid solicitation and/or contract, indicating the projected workforce to
be used on the construction site. The AWARD CRITERIA WORKSHEET should
realistically delineate commitments in the area of minority and female
workforce hours. It shall also state the minimum requirements that are to be
imposed on each contract. Failure to complete the formula may be cause for
rejection of the bidder’s proposal, regardless of applicability of this
chapter. Said WORKSHEET shall be provided by the city.
   AWARDING AGENCY. The Board, Department District, utility, or political
subdivision of the city which awards any qualified or non-qualified
construction project.
   CERTIFIED PAYROLL. Federal Form WH-347, defined in the C.F.R. at 29 C.F.R. §
5. This is the form which Contractors must use WH-347 to certify their payrolls
to the U.S. Department of Labor. Labor classifications, definitions and
exemptions contained in 29 C.F.R. § 5 shall apply to this chapter, unless
otherwise explicitly provided. If the form designated by 29 C.F.R. § 5 to
certify payrolls changes, or WH-347 is changed by the United States Department
of Labor, then the city may designate that new Federal Certified Payroll form
be used.
   CITY CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENT. Any written contract between a contractor and
the city for the construction, rehabilitation, alteration, demolition,
conversion, extension or repair of buildings, sidewalks, grounds, parking lots,
or other improvements to real property.
   CITY. The City of East Chicago and all of its agencies, districts, and
departments and utilities.
   COMPLIANCE OFFICER. The person, persons, department or agency designated by
the city to monitor compliance with this chapter and advise and assist the city
regarding enforcement of these sections.
   CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS VALUED AT ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS OR GREATER. Any
city public works project for which the estimated cost is equal to or greater
than an amount as set by the city from time to time.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE. The primary geographic location of construction activity
for a construction project.
   CONTRACTOR. A person, association, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company or other legal entity that proposes to undertake a
construction project and includes every subcontractor hired or engaged by the
CONTRACTOR under such contract.
   INDIANA PLAN. Contractors awarded contracts in the city are required to sign
up with the Indiana Plan at the website www.indianaplan.org. If the state
replaces or renames the Indiana Plan or changes its website, Contractors are
required to sign up with the successor agency or organization.
   MINORITY. A member of a minority group as specified in I.C. 4-13-16.5-1. The
term OTHER, as referred to in the statute, shall be used to include qualified
individuals with disabilities who meet legitimate skill, experience, education,
or other requirements of employment positions held or sought and who perform
the essential function with or without reasonable accommodation and other
groups of other individuals found by the city to be socially and economically
disadvantaged or to have suffered actual racial or ethnic discrimination and
decreased opportunities to compete in the city area market.
   NON-TRADE EMPLOYEES. Include owners, managers, secretaries, supervisors and
other employees that do not satisfy the workforce requirements as set forth and
defined in 29 C.F.R. § 5, et seq. NON-TRADE EMPLOYEES do not count toward the
Equal Employment Opportunity requirements.
   PETITION FOR EXEMPTION. The petition that the awarding agency or contractor
must file with the Common Council, at the earliest the need becomes apparent,
if it believes an exemption from this chapter is warranted in keeping with §
39.30. The petition shall cite whether the request is based on the specialized
needs of the construction project or based on the source of funding. If the
awarding agency claims that the exemption is based on the source of funding,
the petition shall be accompanied by a statement from the granting unit that
the funding expressly or impliedly prohibits application of this chapter.
   PROOF OF COMPLIANCE. Documentation, including names and addresses of all
employees demonstrating that the requirements of this chapter have been met.
Proof of minority and gender status must be secured on the certified payroll,
defining the employee’s Social Security number, address, trade classification,
race, ethnicity, disability, and gender. Where codes or abbreviations are
utilized to demonstrate these factors, a corresponding key must come with each
submission.
   PROOF OF MINORITY OR GENDER STATUS. Must be secured on the certified
payroll, defining the employee’s social security number, address, trade
classification, race, ethnicity, disability, and gender. Where codes or
abbreviations are utilized to demonstrate these factors, a corresponding key
must come with each submission.
   SPECIALIZED CONSTRUCTION PROJECT or EXEMPT CONSTRUCTION PROJECT. Any public
works project within the city that, in whole or in part, requires a skill set
beyond that of the average construction contract or requires specialty
licensing, rendering the contract one that is exempt from the requirements set
forth in this chapter. The determination of whether a project is exempt, in
whole or in part, is to be determined by the City Council. An EXEMPT
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT could also mean a project funded by federal, state money,
or funds from a private company or foundation where the grant or outside
funding agency expressly or impliedly prohibits the use of this chapter.
   WORKFORCE EMPLOYMENT CONNECTION. A program designed to connect potential
workers to employment opportunities in the city. Contractors awarded contracts
in the city are required to register on the website https://eastchicago.com/
Jobs.
(Prior Code, § 39.02) (Ord. 0-04-0005, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0020, passed
6-13-2005; Ord. 15-0030, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 37.003 MINIMUM PERCENTAGE.
   (A)   Minimum requirements do not preclude additional utilization of
minority and female employees, or residents of the city. This minimal
percentage of residents, minorities and females shall not be understood as
limiting or deterring the fuller utilization of those groups beyond this level,
but is intended instead as minimum requirements.
   (B)   (1)   Upon demonstration by the contractor of impracticability or
excessive cost of complying with the specified percentages, a waiver or
reduction from the requirements of this subchapter may be deemed appropriate by
the city if the contractor and/or its subcontractor has unsuccessfully
solicited a sufficient number of residents of the city, female or minority
candidates to perform work under the contract, and the contractor and/or its
subcontractor has provided documentation of such efforts to the city.
      (2)   Any contractor and/or subcontractor seeking a waiver or reduction
shall provide timely written notice of the need for qualified residents of the
city, female or minority candidates to an appropriate source of referrals,
which source shall be entitled to comment on any application for waiver or
reduction.
      (3)   The city may determine, in its sole discretion and in keeping with
§ 39.30 whether the efforts of the contractor and/or its subcontractor are
sufficient to justify a waiver, and whether the waiver is in the best interests
of the city.
      (4)   Any waiver or reduction, if granted by the city in its sole
discretion, shall be in writing and be specific regarding the exact provision,
percentage or requirement for which the waiver or reduction is granted.
(Prior Code, § 39.03) (Ord. 0-04-0005, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0020, passed
6-13-2005; Ord. 15-0030, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 37.004 COMPLIANCE.
   The contractor and its subcontractors that perform work on all
nonspecialized construction contracts and nonexempt specialized contracts as
determined by the Board of Public Works and Safety shall comply with the
minimum percentage of total worker hours performed by actual residents of the
city as specified in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 39.04) (Ord. 0-04-0005, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0020, passed
6-13-2005)
§ 37.005 CONTRACTS; LOCAL HIRING ORDINANCE TO BE INCLUDED; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The city’s local hiring ordinance shall be included in all non-
specialized construction contracts and nonexempt specialized contracts as
determined by the Board of Public Works and Safety and let by the city. The
compliance, enforcement, and sanctions of this subchapter shall be governed by
the individual terms of each contract awarded.
   (B)   Any contractor entering into a public contract with the city,
political subdivision of the city or any department of the city by acceptance
of the contract, agrees to comply with and be bound by the terms of the local
hiring ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 39.05) (Ord. 0-04-0005, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0020, passed
6-13-2005)
§ 37.006 AFFIDAVIT OF EAST CHICAGO RESIDENCY HIRING.
   (A)   The contractor shall submit with its bid solicitation and/or contract
document the affidavit of City Residency Hiring, copies of which shall be
available in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Failure by the contractor to fully complete and submit the forms,
including providing figures, signing or attesting to each form as required
shall not waive any requirement of this code.
   (C)   Any attempt by a contractor to unilaterally waive any requirement of
this section by altering contract language or forms to shall be ineffective.
Waivers from requirements of this code shall only be granted in writing, after
written request by the contractor, and properly reviewed by the city, in
compliance with § 39.30 of this code and other applicable sections.
(Prior Code, § 39.06) (Ord. 0-04-0005, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0020, passed
6-13-2005; Ord. 15-0030, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 37.007 CONTRACTS; FORMS; DRAFTING AUTHORITY.
   All contracts awarded by the city, a political subdivision of the city or
any department of the city shall be on forms prescribed and approved by the
City Council and by the Law Department of the city. Such forms may be
periodically revised by the Law Department to ensure compliance with city,
state, and federal law and regulations, and city policy.
   (A)   Forms. The forms shall include the following but not limited to
language which shall govern the local hiring provision:
      (1)   Contractors shall comply with the 50% local hiring requirement on
contracts as designated by the city; and
      (2)   Monitoring of compliance with the local hiring ordinance will be
done by the Compliance Officer.
   (B)   Compliance and reporting.
      (1)   The contractor shall provide for the maintenance of adequate
employee residency records to ensure that actual city residents are employed on
the designated construction project. The contractor and its subcontractors
shall maintain copies of personnel documents supportive of every city
employee’s record of actual residence. The documentation may include but not be
limited to the following items: a copy of the employee driver’s license; a
valid state ID, a copy of a current utility bill; and/or a copy of the
individual voter’s registration card.
      (2)   (a)   Reporting requirements. The contractor shall submit, and
shall ensure that all of its subcontractors working on the site submit two
copies of certified payrolls for the payment period to the city or its
designated representative every week to the city, through its Compliance
Officer each week from the start of the project until the project is 100%
completed, and the project is closed out.
         (b)   Duty to submit. The contractor shall have a duty to submit said
form on a weekly basis, without demand by the city or its Compliance Officer,
but if a demand for said forms are made by the city or its Compliance Officer,
the contractor shall certify and submit its certified payroll forms within
three days of the demand.
         (c)   Certified payrolls. Certified payrolls shall be submitted to the
city through its Compliance Officer on United States Department of Labor Form
WH-347, with supporting documentation. The method of submission (i.e., hard
copy or electronic format) shall be determined by the city. Labor
classifications, definitions and exemptions contained in 29 C.F.R. § 5 shall
apply. The contractor and subcontractors must submit the identical WH-347 form
certified and submitted to the U.S. Department of Labor. Where the contractor
for any reason fails to submit Form WH-347 or its equivalent to the United
States Department of Labor, the Contractor shall still complete and certify the
Form WH-347 Certified Payroll Form to the City Compliance Officer within the
deadlines provided in this chapter.
         (d)   Supporting documentation to be submitted with the certified
payroll. In addition to Certified Payroll Form WH-347, the contractor and all
of its subcontractors shall identify clearly the actual residence of every
employee on each submitted certified payroll, the first time that an employee’s
name appears on a payroll, the date that the company hired the employee should
be written in after the employee’s name. Whereby contractor has identified an
employee as a city resident, at least two of the following forms of
documentation shall accompany the certified payroll whereby the employee’s name
first occurs:
            1.   A copy of the employee driver’s license;
            2.   A valid state ID, or other valid government issued
identification card;
            3.   A copy of a current utility bill in the employee’s name.
            4.   A copy of the individual voter’s registration card.
         (e)   Identification. All payrolls must be identified with the
Contractor and/or subcontractor’s name and contract name and number, and must
be sequentially numbered. The contractor shall ensure that its payrolls and its
subcontractor’s payrolls are submitted until all work by the contractor and/or
subcontractor is completed. If there are periods of no work by the contractor
and/or subcontractor, a payroll labeled “no work” shall be submitted. The final
payroll shall be labeled “final.” Certified payrolls are required to assure
workforce hiring compliance as well as wage compliance. Race, ethnicity, worker
classification, Social Security number and gender must be clearly marked for
each employee on the certified payroll along with all additional information
required by the city. An employee’s address should appear every time his or her
name appears on the payroll. The contractor must submit the certified payrolls
and additional information regarding workforce hiring and wage compliance by
providing a payroll summary report in the form required by the city. The
payroll summary report form required by the city and the United States
Department of Labor must be submitted by contractor and each subcontractor,
reflecting fully the periods of work covered by the partial payment request.
      (3)   Full access to the contractor and its subcontractors’ employment
records shall be granted to the city, or any duly authorized representative
thereof. The contractor and subcontractors shall maintain all relevant
personnel data for a period of at least three years after final acceptance of
the work.
      (4)   At the direction of the city, affidavits and other supporting
documentation will be required of the contractor to verify or clarify an
employee’s actual address or change of actual address when doubt or lack of
clarity has arisen.
   (C)   Noncompliance.
      (1)   Good faith efforts on the part of the contractor to provide
utilization of actual city residents shall not suffice to replace the actual,
verified achievement of the requirement concerning the worker hours performed
by actual city residents.
      (2)   The city may impose the following remedies if the contractor is
found to be in noncompliance in achieving the workforce-hiring requirement as
cited in this subchapter:
         (a)   Stop work on contract until compliance is reached;
         (b)   Suspension of payments; and
         (c)   Termination of the contract.
      (3)   If the contractor is permitted to complete the work and when work
is completed, and the city has determined that the contractor failed to ensure
the fulfillment of the requirement of this subchapter concerning the worker
hours performed by actual city residents, or has failed to report in the manner
indicated above under division (B) above, the city will thereby be damaged in
the failure to provide the benefit of demonstrable employment to city residents
to the degree stipulated in this supplementary condition. Therefore, in that
case of noncompliance it is agreed that one-tenth of 1%, of the adjusted
contract price (approved contract value) shall be withheld by the city in
payment for each full one percentage of shortfall toward the stipulated
residency requirements. Failure to report the residency and hours of all
employees entirely and correctly shall result in the surrender of the entire
liquidated damages as if no city residents were employed. The formula shall be
calculated as such:
.0010 x Adjusted Base Amount = Sum x Net Deficiency = Potential Damage Amount
      (4)   The willful falsification of statements and the certification of
payroll data may subject the contractor, subcontractors, or employee to
prosecution.
      (5)   Liquidated damages, if any, will be calculated on completion of the
work and submission of the contractor’s final pay request together with all
attendant certified payrolls, schedules of values, lien releases, and other
required documentation of workforce hiring.
      (6)   Nothing herein provided shall be construed to be a limitation upon
or exemption from any other affirmative action requirements under the
regulations promulgated by applicable federal, state, or local authorities.
      (7)   (a)   The monetary damages stipulated in division (B) above may be
adjusted by the city to represent a larger fraction of the adjusted contract
price, if the city determines after a review of contractor’s compliance with
this section that the damages are insufficient to secure compliance herewith.
         (b)   In no event may damages be adjusted to a lower fraction.
         (c)   In addition to assessing the monetary damages stipulated in
division (B) above, the city may, in lieu of declaring the contractor to be a
non-responsible bidder, require the contractor to post a surety bond or other
appropriate security in an amount representing 10% of the contract price for
subsequent contracts on which the contractor bids, which the contractor shall
agree to forfeit in its entirety in the event that full compliance with the
requirements of this section is not achieved during the performance of any
future contract that the contractor enters with the city.
(Prior Code, § 39.07) (Ord. 0-04-0005, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0020, passed
6-13-2005; Ord. 15-0030, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 37.008 MONETARY DAMAGES.
   The monetary damages as stipulated in §
37.006 shall be utilized for establishing worker training related programs for
the city.
(Prior Code, § 39.08) (Ord. 0-05-0020, passed 6-13-2005)
§ 37.009 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. 
      (1)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ELECTED OFFICIAL means:
            1.   The Mayor;
            2.   A member of the Common Council;
            3.   The City Judge; or
            4.   The City Clerk.
         RELATIVE means any of the following:
            1.   A spouse;
            2.   A parent or stepparent;
            3.   A child or stepchild;
            4.   A brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister;
            5.   A niece or nephew;
            6.   An aunt or uncle; or
            7.   A daughter-in-law or son-in-law.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, an adopted child of an individual is
treated as a natural child of the individual.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, the terms BROTHER and SISTER include
a brother or sister by the half blood.
   (B)   Annual report. The annual report filed by a unit with the State Board
of Accounts under I.C. 5-11-13-1 must include a statement by the executive of
the unit stating whether the unit has implemented a policy under this section.
   (C)   Contract disclosure requirements.
      (1)   The city, its departments, or subdivisions, may enter into a
contract or renew a contract for the procurement of goods and services or a
contract for public works with:
         (a)   An individual who is a relative of an elected official; or
         (b)   A business entity that is wholly or partially owned by a
relative of an elected official; only if the requirements of this section are
satisfied and the elected official does not violate state law.
      (2)   The city, its departments, or subdivisions may enter into a
contract or renew a contract with an individual or business entity described in
division (C)(1) above if;
         (a)   The elected official files with the Common Council a full
disclosure, which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the city, its
departments, or subdivisions;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts or purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the Common Council and be accepted by the
Common Council in a public meeting of the Common Council prior to final action
on the contract or purchase; and
            6.   Be filed, not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase, with:
               a.   The State Board of Accounts; and
               b.   The Clerk of the Lake Circuit;
         (b)   The appropriate agency of the city:
            1.   Makes a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered; or makes a
certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or contractor was selected;
and
            2.   The unit satisfies any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
I.C. 36-1-12.
      (3)   An elected official shall also comply with the disclosure
provisions of I.C. 35-44-1-3, if applicable.
      (4)   This section does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the city
begins.
   (D)   Annual certification by officer. 
      (1)   Each elected officer of the city shall annually certify in writing,
subject to the penalties for perjury, that the officer is in compliance with
this section.
      (2)   An officer shall submit the certification to the Mayor of the unit
not later than December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 13-0004, passed 2-11-2013)
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
§ 37.020 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY GOALS.
   For all non-specialized construction contracts and nonexempt specialized
contracts, as determined by the Board of Public Works, and approved by the
Common Council (if required) in keeping with the requirements of this code,
having an estimated contract value in an amount as set by the city from time to
time, and where not otherwise explicitly prohibited by federal, state or local
law effective the date this subchapter is approved, the below listed Equal
Employment Opportunity goals reflected in the following percentages of for
construction projects funded in whole or in part by city funds, as reflected in
the aggregated work hours in each of the categories of construction:
   (A)   Journeyworker and apprentice:
      (1)   At least 15% by minorities; and
      (2)   At least 2% by women.
   (B)   Laborers:
      (1)   At least 30% by minorities; and
      (2)   At least 5% by women.
(Prior Code, § 39.20) (Ord. 0-04-0004, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0019, passed
6-13-2005; Ord. 15-0030, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 37.021 EMPLOYMENT OF FORMULA.
   In order to effectuate the achievement of these goals, the Director of the
Board of Public Works and Safety shall employ the canvassing formula described
in §
37.023 in the bidding for and in the awarding of all non-specialized
construction contracts and nonexempt specialized contracts, as determined by
the Board of Public Works and Safety, having an estimated contract value in an
amount as set by the city from time to time and which are let by the city.
(Prior Code, § 39.21) (Ord. 0-04-0004, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0019, passed
6-13-2005)
§ 37.022 GOALS TO APPLY TO PROJECTS FUNDED ENTIRELY BY THE CITY.
   These goals shall also apply to construction projects which are funded
entirely by the city, a political subdivision of the city or any department of
the city with its own revenues subsidized in part with federal revenues
pursuant to congressionally created grant programs which are intended to
encourage economic revitalization including improved opportunities for the
poor, minorities, and unemployed within the municipality to which the grant was
given (including, without limitation, Community Development Block Grants, Urban
Development Action Grants, and Economic Development Administration Grants).
(Prior Code, § 39.22) (Ord. 0-04-0004, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0019, passed
6-13-2005)
§ 37.023 FORMULA.
   In accordance with this subchapter, and in order to promote equality of
opportunity for minority and female personnel the city has established the
following canvassing formula (hereafter award criteria formula) for the purpose
of evaluating proposals and awarding non-specialized construction contracts and
nonexempt specialized contracts.
   (A)   Award criteria worksheet. The award criteria worksheet delineates the
bidder’s voluntary commitment to utilizing minorities and females on the work
site. Failure to complete the formula may provide a basis for rejection of the
bidder’s proposal. Furthermore, failure by the bidder to fully complete and
submit forms required, including the award criteria worksheet, including
providing figures, signing or attesting to each form shall not waive any
requirement of this code. Any waiver of requirements must be granted by the
city in writing in compliance with this code.
      (1)   Lines 2, 4 and 6 in the formula shall not be greater than 50% in
each category for purposes of award criteria only. Similarly, lines 8, 10 and
12 shall not be greater than 10% in each category for the purpose of award
criteria only. The 50% and 10% goals are not intended to restrict the total
number of minority and female employees to be used on the project, but only to
establish limiting figures for use in the formula. Journey workers includes but
is not limited to: truck drivers, tile setters, finishers, electrical grounds
workers and elevator construction helpers, workers from the major trades listed
herein and the teamsters.
      (2)   If a contractor fails to meet the minimum commitment pledged in any
category, the penalty will be based upon the percentages. If the contractor
leaves any line or category blank, or fails to sign the form, the minimum
requirement provided in §
37.020 shall be imputed. If the contractor pledges below the minimum
requirement provided in §
37.020 of this code, and on the award criteria worksheet, the minimum
requirements will be applied even if the bid is erroneously awarded.
      (3)   The award criteria worksheet shall state the minimum requirements
which bidders must meet on each project which are set forth as follows:
Line 1  Base bid, in figures                                                   
        Percentage of the total journeyworkers hours that the contractor
Line 2  proposes to be worked by minority journeyworkers during construction   
        of the project; (maximum figure 0.50)
Line 3  Multiply Line 2 by Line 1 by 0.04                                      
        Percentage of the total apprentice hours that the contractor proposes
Line 4  to be worked by minority apprentices during construction of the        
        project; (maximum figure 0.50)
Line 5  Multiply Line 4 by Line 1 by 0.03                                      
        Percentage of the total laborer hours that the contractor proposes to
Line 6  be worked by minority laborers during construction of the project;     
        (maximum figure 0.50)
Line 7  Multiply Line 6 by Line 1 by 0.01                                      
        Percentage of the total journeyworkers hours that the contractor
Line 8  proposes to be worked by female journeyworkers during construction of  
        the project; (maximum figure 0.10)
Line 9  Multiply Line 8 by Line 1 by 0.04                                      
        Percentage of total apprentice hours that the contractor proposes to
Line 10 be worked by female apprentices during construction of the project;    
        (maximum figure 0.10)
Line 11 Multiply Line 10 by Line 1 by 0.03                                     
        Percentage of total laborer hours that the contractor proposes to be
Line 12 worked by female laborers during construction of the project;          
        (maximum figure 0.10)
Line 13 Multiply Line 12 by Line 1 by 0.01                                     
Line 14 Summation of Lines 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, and 13                              
Line 15 Subtract Line 14 from Line 1                                           
        (= award criteria figure)
 
   (B)   The contractor shall complete in its entirety the award criteria
formula and transfer the final award criteria figure (Line 15) to the space
provided on the itemized proposal sheet. Failure to complete the formula may be
cause for rejection of the contractor’s proposal. The contractor will be held
responsible for adhering to the figures submitted in Lines 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10,
and 12 during construction of the project. Hence if no hours are achieved in
the categories whereby the contractor has committed a percentage the contractor
will still be held to the percentages committed in Lines 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12
given that the award criteria figure will be considered upon determining the
lowest responsible contractor.
   (C)   Actual amounts of minority female work will be measured from the total
hours of construction workers employed on the project within each of the
categories of journeyworkers, apprentices, and laborers by the contractor and
all of the worksite subcontractors. Individual workers who are both minority
and female will have their hours counted as both a minority goal and a female
goal.
   (D)   Hours, which have been identified for apprentices on the project, will
be counted toward the commitment only upon receipt of the U.S. Department of
Labor apprentice certification for each apprentice identified.
(Prior Code, § 39.23) (Ord. 0-04-0004, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0019, passed
6-13-2005; Ord. 15-0030, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 37.024 GOALS TO APPLY TO PROJECTS SUBSIDIZED BY FEDERAL REVENUES.
   These goals shall also apply to construction projects subsidized in part
with federal revenues pursuant to congressionally created grant programs which
are intended to encourage economic revitalization including improved
opportunities for the poor, minorities, and unemployed within the municipality
to which the grant was given (including, without limitation, Community
Development Block Grants, Urban Development Action Grants, and Economic
Development Administration Grants).
(Prior Code, § 39.24) (Ord. 0-04-0004, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0019, passed
6-13-2005)
§ 37.025 DEDUCTIONS.
   The contractor shall consent and agree that, in the event that it fails to
comply with each of the minimum commitments submitted with the bid submittal on
Lines 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 of the award criteria formula, covering minority
and female journeyworkers, apprentices, and laborers respectively, for any net
deficiency in each category, the following amounts shall be deducted as
liquidated damages from monies due the contractor and the contract sum modified
accordingly:
   (A)   (1)   For each full 1% deficiency of minority journeyworkers not
utilized (Line 2) $0.04 per each $100 of the base bid and/or adjusted contract
amount whichever is less, calculated as follows, or in an amount as set by the
city from time to time:
      (2)   Each full 1% deficiency toward the goal for female journeyworkers
(Line 8) shall be calculated in the same way.
   (B)   (1)   For each full 1% deficiency of minority apprentices not utilized
(Line 4) $0.03 per $100 of the base bid and/or adjusted contract amount
whichever is less, calculated as follows, or in an amount as set by the city
from time to time:
 
Line 1 x 0.03
100
 
      (2)   Each full 1% deficiency toward the goal for each female apprentice
(Line 10) shall be calculated in the same way.
   (C)   (1)   For each full 1% deficiency of minority laborers not utilized
(Line 6) $0.01 per each $100 of the base bid and/or adjusted contract amount
whichever is less, calculated as follows, or in an amount as set by the city
from time to time:
 
Line 1 x 0.01
100
 
      (2)   Each full 1% deficiency toward the goal for female laborers (Line
12) shall be calculated in the same way.
   (D)   Liquidated damages, if any, will be calculated on completion of the
work and submission of the contractor’s final pay request together with all
attendant certified payrolls and other required documentation of minority and
women employment.
(Prior Code, § 39.25) (Ord. 0-04-0004, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0019, passed
6-13-2005)
§ 37.026 CONTRACTOR’S SUBMISSIONS, REPORTING, AND COMPLIANCE.
   All contracts awarded by the city, a political subdivision of the city or
any department of the city shall be on forms prescribed and approved by the
City Council and by the Law Department of the city. Such forms may be
periodically revised by the Law Department to ensure compliance with city,
state and federal law and regulations, and city policy. Monitoring of
compliance with the Equal Employment Opportunity Goals contained in §§
37.020 through
37.028 will be done by the Compliance Officer.
   (A)   In accordance with this commitment, the contractor must submit both
the contractor’s payroll record form and the contractor’s workforce hiring of
minority and female worker hours and percentages form on a monthly basis. The
contractor shall submit to the city no later than once monthly, a completed
weekly-certified payroll with the Social Security number, address, trade
classification, race, ethnicity, and gender of employees clearly named or coded
for each week. In the weekly payroll report, the following categories should be
used to indicate minority personnel for purposes of the award criteria figure:
      (1)   The classification “white” includes persons of Indo-European
descent;
      (2)   The classification of “black” or “African-American” includes
persons having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa;
      (3)   The classification “Hispanic” includes persons whose origins are
from Mexico, Puerto Rico, Cuba, Central or South America, the Caribbean
Islands, or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race;
      (4)   The classification “Native American” includes persons who are
American Indians, Inuit, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians;
      (5)   The classification “Asian Indians” includes persons whose origins
are from India, Pakistan, or Bangladesh;
      (6)   The classification “Asian Pacific” includes persons whose origins
are from Japan, China, Taiwan, Korea, Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, the Philippines,
Samoa, Guam, and the U.S. Territories of the Pacific, or the Northern Marianas;
and
      (7)   The classification “other” includes qualified individuals with
disabilities who meet legitimate skill, experience, education, or other
requirements of employment positions held or sought and who perform the
essential function with or without reasonable accommodation and other groups or
other individuals found by the city to be socially and economically
disadvantaged and to have suffered actual race or ethnic discrimination and
decreased opportunities to compete in the city area market.
   (B)   The compliance and reporting requirements contained in §§
37.007(B)(2)(b) through
37.007(B)(2)(d) shall apply to contractor submissions, and other reporting
requirements contained in this subchapter and §§
37.040 through
37.044.
(Prior Code, § 39.26) (Ord. 0-04-0004, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0019, passed
6-13-2005; Ord. 15-0030, passed 12-28-2015)
§ 37.027 PREVAILING WAGE RANGE.
   (A)   The contractor covenants and agrees to pay and to contractually
obligate and cause each subcontractor to pay the prevailing wage rate as
ascertained by the State Department of Labor.
   (B)   The rates as provided by the State Department of Labor for the county,
as may be revised from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 39.27) (Ord. 0-04-0004, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0019, passed
6-13-2005)
§ 37.028 USE OF MONETARY DAMAGES.
   The monetary damages as stipulated in §
37.025 shall be utilized for establishing worker training related programs for
the city.
(Prior Code, § 39.28) (Ord. 0-04-0004, passed 2-20-2004; Ord. 0-05-0019, passed
6-13-2005)
§ 37.029 HIRING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   That if the Board of Public Works determines that a proposed
construction contract for any public works within the city is a “specialized”
construction contract which warrants a waiver of the minority and residential
hiring requirements, the Board of Public Works must seek approval of the Common
Council before advertising or awarding such a contract.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works shall file a petition with the council
stating the grounds and justification for a waiver of the hiring requirements
and must appear at a public council meeting if requested by the council.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works shall not advertise for bids for a
construction contract without the hiring requirements without prior approval by
the common council.
(Ord. 11-0006, passed 2-28-2011)
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENTS
§ 37.040 POLICY.
   It is the policy, as expressed herein, of the city to provide for the
negotiation of mutually acceptable project labor agreements with local labor
unions representing experienced and skilled construction workers covering the
construction, alteration, or repair work.
(Prior Code, § 39.40) (Ord. 0-06-0018, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 37.041 LANGUAGE REQUIRED FOR ALL SOLICITATIONS FOR BIDS.
   All solicitations for bids issued by the Common Council of the city (or a
corporation created to benefit the city in construction, alteration, or repair)
shall, except as otherwise provided herein, include the following language:
Each successful bidder and any and all levels of subcontractors, regardless of
tier as a condition of being awarded a contract or subcontract, will agree to
abide by the provisions of the __________________ (insert names of project)
project labor agreement as executed and effective ______20__. By and between
the project manager and/or construction manager authorized to negotiate and
enter into a project labor agreement on behalf of the City of East Chicago (or
a corporation created to benefit the entity in construction, alteration, or
repair) and the local labor unions representing experienced and skilled
construction workers and will be bound by the provisions of that agreement in
the same manner as any other provision of the contract.
(Prior Code, § 39.41) (Ord. 0-06-0018, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 37.042 LANGUAGE REQUIRED FOR ANY INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS.
   Any instructions to bidders or like document issued for a public works
project by the city shall, except as otherwise provided herein, include the
following language:
The general contract (and all independent subcontracts, i.e. subcontracts not
included within a general contract and regardless of tier) will be awarded to
the lowest responsible and responsive bidder complying with the conditions and
requirements provided in these instructions, the bid forms and the other bid
documents. A responsible and responsive bidder is a bidder demonstrably
possessing the skill, ability and integrity necessary to faithfully perform the
work called for by the contract, based upon a determination of competent
workmanship and financial soundness in accordance with I.C. 36-1-9.5 or any
successor statute. An eligible bidder is a bidder who is not debarred from
bidding under any applicable law, and which shall certify that it is able to
furnish labor that can work in harmony with all other elements of labor
employed or to be employed on the project. In the interests of harmony, the
long-term supply of skilled labor, and to provide a legally enforceable means
of assuring labor stability and labor peace over the life of the project, each
successful bidder and any and all levels of subcontractors, regardless of tier,
as a condition of being awarded a contractor subcontract, shall be required to
enter into a project labor agreement for the ______________(insert name or
project) project with local labor unions representing experienced and skilled
construction workers for the development and construction of the project, and
will be bound by the provisions of that project labor agreement in the same
manner as any other provision of the contract.
(Prior Code, § 39.42) (Ord. 0-06-0018, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 37.043 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Common Council of the city retains its inherent authority to adopt means
to enforce compliance by any contractor or subcontractor, regardless of tier,
with the provisions of any project labor agreement entered into on behalf of
the city (or lessee or the beneficiary of a separate corporation created to
benefit the city in construction, alteration, or repair).
(Prior Code, § 39.43) (Ord. 0-06-0018, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 37.044 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   The city’s project labor agreement contain the additional provisions:
   (A)   Public works projects costing less than an amount as set by the city
from time to time be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter; and
   (B)   Northwest Indiana Building and Construction Trade Council, on behalf
of its affiliated local unions, shall do the following:
      (1)   Use best efforts to recruit city residents to fulfill the manpower
requirements of the contractors covered hereunder, which are required to have
50% of city residents in each job classification covered by this subchapter;
      (2)   Work with persons designated by the city to hold and sponsor two
job fairs each year and to provide materials on job training; and
      (3)   To use best efforts to place city residents in apprentice and
journeyworkers non-public construction jobs in the city.
(Prior Code, § 39.44) (Ord. 0-06-0018, passed 5-8-2006)
RESPONSIBLE BIDDING PRACTICES
§ 37.055 BID SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Contractors proposing to submit bids on any city project estimated to
be at least $150,000 or more must, in order to be considered a responsible
bidder, prior to the opening of bids, submit a statement made under oath and
subject to perjury laws, on a form designated by the city and must include:
      (1)   A copy of a print-out of the State Secretary of State’s on-line
records for the bidder dated within 60 days of the submission of said document
showing that the bidder is in existence, current with the State Secretary of
State’s Business Entity Reports, and eligible for a certificate of good
standing. If the bidder is an individual, sole proprietor, or partnership, this
subsection shall not apply;
      (2)   A list identifying all former business names;
      (3)   Any determinations by a court or governmental agency for violations
of federal, state, or local laws including, but not limited to violations of
contracting or antitrust laws, tax, or licensing laws, environmental laws, the
Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), being 29 U.S.C. §§ 651 et seq., or
federal Davis-Bacon, being Pub. L. No. 71-798, 40 U.S.C. §§ 3141 et seq., and
related Acts;
      (4)   A statement on staffing capabilities, including labor sources;
      (5)   Evidence of participation in apprenticeship training programs
applicable to the work to be performed on the project, which are approved by
and registered with the United States Department of Labor’s Office of
Apprenticeship, or its successor organization; and evidence that any applicable
apprenticeship program has graduated at least five apprentices in each of the
past five years for each of the construction crafts the bidder will perform on
the project. Evidence of graduation rates are not required for apprenticeable
crafts dedicated exclusively to the transportation of material arid equipment
to and from the public works project. The required evidence includes but is not
limited to a copy of all applicable apprenticeship standards and Apprenticeship
Agreement(s) for any apprentice(s) who will perform work on the public works
project; and documentation from each applicable apprenticeship program
certifying that it has graduated at least five apprentices in each of the past
five years for each construction craft the bidder will perform on the project.
Additional evidence of participation and graduation requirements may be
requested by the city at its discretion.
      (6)   A copy of a written plan for employee drug testing that: covers all
employees of the bidder who will perform work on the public works project; and
meets or exceeds the requirements set forth in I.C. 4-13-18-5 or I.C. 4-13-18-
6;
      (7)   The name and description of the management experience of each of
the bidder’s project managers and superintendents that bidder intends to assign
to work on the project;
      (8)   Proof of any professional or trade license required by law for any
trade or specialty area in which bidder is seeking a contract award; and
disclosure of any suspension or revocation within the previous five years of
any professional or trade license held by the company, or of any director,
office, or manager employed by the bidder;
      (9)   Evidence that the bidder is utilizing a surety company on the
United States Department of Treasury’s Listing of Approved Sureties;
      (10)   A written statement of any federal, state, or local tax liens or
tax delinquencies owed to any federal, state, or local taxing body in the last
five years;
      (11)   A statement that individuals who will perform work on the public
works project on behalf of the bidder will be properly classified as either an
employee or an independent contractor, under all applicable state and federal
laws and local ordinances;
      (12)   A list of projects of similar size and scope of work that the
bidder has performed in the state within three years prior to the date on which
the bid is due; and
      (13)   For contracts estimated to cost at least $300,000, certification
that the bidder and all subcontractors are qualified under I.C. 4-13.6-4 or
I.C. 8-23-10; and
      (14)   A written list that discloses the name, address, and type of work
for each subcontractor the bidder intends to employ on any part of the public
works project, including individuals performing work as independent
contractors.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to demand supplemental information from
the bidder, additional verification of any of the information provided by the
bidder, and may conduct random inquiries of the bidder’s current and prior
customers.
(Ord. 22-0005, passed 2-23-2022)
§ 37.056 POST-BID SUBMISSIONS FROM SUBCONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Each subcontractor of any tier shall be required to adhere to the
requirements of §
37.055, but subcontractors shall submit the required information to the
successful bidder, who shall then submit said information to the city prior to
the subcontractor’s first day of work on the public works project.
   (B)   (1)   Failure of a subcontractor to submit the required information
shall not disqualify the successful bidder from performing work on the project
and shall not constitute a contractual default or breach by the successful
bidder. However, payment shall be withheld from any subcontractor who fails to
timely submit said information until such information is submitted and approved
by the city.
      (2)   Additionally, the city may require the successful bidder and/or
relevant subcontractor to remove a subcontractor from the project and replace
it with a responsive and responsible subcontractor.
   (C)   (1)   The disclosure of a subcontractor by a bidder or a subcontractor
shall not create any rights in the disclosed subcontractor. Thus, a bidder and/
or a subcontractor may substitute another subcontractor for a disclosed
subcontractor by giving the city written notice of the name, address, and type
of work the substitute subcontractor will perform.
      (2)   The substitute subcontractor is subject to all of the obligations
of a subcontractor under this chapter.
(Ord. 22-0005, passed 2-23-2022)
§ 37.057 VALIDITY OF PRE-QUALIFICATION CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   Upon designation by the city that a bidder’s or subcontractor’s
submission is complete and timely, and upon any further consideration deemed
necessary by the city, the bidder or subcontractor may be pre-qualified for
future city public works projects. Pre-qualification shall exempt the bidder or
subcontractor from the comprehensive submission requirements contained herein
for a period of 12 months. Thereafter, bidders or subcontractors who are pre-
qualified must submit a complete application for continuation of pre-qualified
standing, on a form provided by the city (i.e., a “short form”) by December 31
for the upcoming calendar year. Failure by any pre-qualified bidder or
subcontractor to timely submit its complete application for continuation of
pre-qualified standing shall result in automatic removal of the designation
effective January 1 of the upcoming year. However, the removed bidder or
subcontractor shall still be permitted to bid on or perform work on city public
works projects.
   (B)   Any material changes to a contractor’s status, at any time, must be
reported in writing within ten days of its occurrence to the city. The pre-
qualification designation is solely within the discretion of the city and the
city specifically reserves the right to change or revoke the designation for a
stated written reason(s).
   (C)   Denial of pre-qualification shall be in writing and shall be forwarded
to the contractor within seven working days of such decision. Any contractor
denied or losing prequalification status may request reconsideration of the
decision by submitting such request in writing to the city within five business
days of receipt of notice of denial.
(Ord. 22-0005, passed 2-23-2022)
§ 37.058 INCOMPLETE SUBMISSIONS BY BIDDERS.
   It is the sole responsibility of the bidder to comply with all submission
requirements herein no later than the public bid opening. Submissions deemed
inadequate, incomplete, or untimely by the city shall result in the automatic
disqualification of the bid.
(Ord. 22-0005, passed 2-23-2022)
§ 37.059 RESPONSIVE AND RESPONSIBLE BIDDER DETERMINATION.
   (A)   After its review of complete and timely submissions, taking into
account all information in the submission requirements, the city shall in its
sole discretion, determine whether a bidder or subcontractor is responsive and
responsible.
   (B)   The city reserves the right to utilize all information provided in the
bidder or subcontractor’s submission or any information obtained by the city
through its own independent verification of the information provided.
(Ord. 22-0005, passed 2-23-2022)
§ 37.060 CERTIFIED PAYROLL.
   (A)   For projects in which the cost is at least $150,000, the successful
bidder and all subcontractors working on a public works project shall submit a
certified payroll report utilizing federal form WH-347 or its successor form,
which must be prepared on a weekly basis and submitted to the city within ten
calendar days after the end of each week in which the successful bidder or
subcontractor performed on the public works project. Certified payroll reports
shall identify the job title and craft of each employee on the project, e.g.
journeyman electrician or apprentice electrician, In the event any successful
bidder or subcontractor uses independent contractors to perform work on the
project, such individual must be identified on the federal form WH-347 or
successor form with the same information as is required for employees.
   (B)   The city may withhold payment due for work performed by a successful
bidder or subcontractor for failure to timely submit their respective certified
payroll reports until such time as the reports are submitted. The city shall
not withhold payment to a successful bidder or subcontractor for failure of the
successful bidder or one or more other subcontractors to timely submit their
certified payroll reports.
(Ord. 22-0005, passed 2-23-2022)
§ 37.061 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   All information submitted by a bidder or a subcontractor pursuant to this
subchapter, including certified payrolls, are public records subject to review
pursuant to the State Access to Public Records Law (I.C. 5-14-3),
(Ord. 22-0005, passed 2-23-2022)
§ 37.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any bidder or subcontractor that willfully makes, or willfully causes
to be made, a false, deceptive, or fraudulent statement, or willfully submits
false, deceptive, or fraudulent information in connection with any submission
made to the city shall be disqualified from bidding or working on all city
projects for a period of three years.
(Ord. 22-0005, passed 2-23-2022)
CHAPTER 38: FINANCE AND REVENUE; FUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
38.001   Board of Finance
   
38.002   Use of certain fees for General Fund
   
38.003   Nonreverting funds
Capital Assets Policy
   
38.015   Purpose
   
38.016   Classification of assets
   
38.017   Capitalization thresholds
   
38.018   Capital; expense and improvement; repair and maintenance
   
38.019   Reported value of capital assets
   
38.020   Estimated useful lives of depreciable assets
   
38.021   Depreciation method and convention
   
38.022   Retirements
   
38.023   Responsibility for property record maintenance
   
38.024   Assets purchased with federal funds
   
38.025   Definitions
   
38.026   Examples
Cumulative Funds
   
38.040   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
38.041   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund
   
38.042   Cumulative Fire Department Fund
   
38.043   Cumulative Firefighting Building and Equipment Fund
Nonreverting Funds
   
38.055   Nonreverting Community Development Debt Service Reserve Fund
   
38.056   Nonreverting Fire Department Capital Fund
   
38.057   Nonreverting Grant Fund
   
38.058   Nonreverting Immunization Fund
   
38.059   Park Nonreverting Capital Fund
   
38.060   Special Nonreverting Operating Fund and Park and Recreational Purposes
Revolving Funds
   
38.075   Communications Revolving Fund
   
38.076   Data Processing Revolving Fund
   
38.077   EC/Gary/Hammond Revolving Loan Consortium Fund
   
38.078   Park and Recreation Revolving Fund
   
38.079   SSED Revolving Loan Fund
TIF Funds
   
38.090   Lakeside Gardens Project TIF Fund
   
38.091   Northtown Village Townhomes TIF Fund
   
38.092   Riley Plaza TIF Fund
   
38.093   TIF Annex Allocation Area Fund
   
38.094   US Gypsum TIF Fund
   
38.095   TIF Lakefront Allocation Area III Fund
Court and Police Funds
   
38.110   Alcohol and Drug Program Users Fee Fund
   
38.111   City Court First Offender’s Fund
   
38.112   City Court Public Defender’s Fund
   
38.113   Court Driving School Fund
   
38.114   DARE Fund
   
38.115   General Adult Probation Services Fund
   
38.116   Infraction Deferral Fund
   
38.117   Local Law Enforcement Grants Fund
   
38.118   Police Local Forfeitures Fund
   
38.119   Confidential Investigation Fund
Building and Construction Funds
   
38.130   Building Demolition Fund
   
38.131   Building Department Change Fund
   
38.132   Major Moves Construction Fund
   
38.133   Unsafe Building Fund
Public Works; Utility Funds
   
38.145   Gasoline Fund
   
38.146   Sanitary Levy Excess Fund
   
38.147   Sanitary Rainy Day Fund
   
38.148   Sewage Utility Bond and Interest Fund
   
38.149   Sewage Utility Construction Fund
   
38.150   Stormwater Management Fund
   
38.151   Water Bond and Interest Fund
   
38.152   Water Tank Refurbishment Fund
   
38.153   Water Utility Construction Fund
   
38.154   Water Utility Debt Reserve Fund
   
38.155   Water Utility Grants Fund
   
38.156   Water Utility Meter Deposit Fund
Development and Redevelopment Funds
   
38.170   Community Development Block Grant Recovery Fund
   
38.171   EC Redevelopment Fund
   
38.172   Economic Development Income Tax Fund
   
38.173   Local Development Agreement Fund
   
38.174   Redevelopment Bond Fund
   
38.175   Redevelopment Capital Fund
   
38.176   Redevelopment Education Fund
Council and Administrative Funds
   
38.190   Cash Reserve Fund
   
38.191   City Council Office Expense Fund
   
38.192   City Council Promotional Fund
   
38.193   City Property Damage Fund
   
38.194   Civil City Levy Excess Fund
   
38.195   Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund
   
38.196   County Option Income Tax Public Safety Fund
   
38.197   Department of Public and Environmental Health Change Fund
   
38.198   Department of Public and Environmental Health Petty Cash Fund
   
38.199   Government Services Cooperative Fund
   
38.200   Health Insurance Fund
   
38.201   LOIT Special Distribution Fund
   
38.202   Property Tax Credit Fund
   
38.203   Sinking Fund
   
38.204   Worker’s Compensation Fund
Community Funds
   
38.215   Diabetes Awareness Fund
   
38.216   Harborside Apartments Fund
   
38.217   Home Investment Partnership Program Fund
   
38.218   Homeless Prevention Fund
   
38.219   Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
   
38.220   Railroad Relocation Fund
   
38.221   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
38.222   Home Investment Partnerships - American Rescue Plan (HOME-ARP) Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.001 BOARD OF FINANCE.
   The Mayor, City Controller, and members of the Common Council shall
constitute the Board of Finance of the city. The City Controller shall act as
Secretary. The Board of Finance shall have supervision over all public funds of
the city and of the safekeeping and deposit thereof and shall have the rights
and powers and exercise the duties provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 43.001)
§ 38.002 USE OF CERTAIN FEES FOR GENERAL FUND.
   All fees and money received for licenses, permits, payments, or
reimbursement shall be paid to the Treasurer for the use and benefit of the
General Fund of the city, unless otherwise required by law or unless otherwise
expressly and specifically provided by this code.
(Prior Code, § 43.002)
§ 38.003 NONREVERTING FUNDS.
   All of the funds created in §§
38.075,
38.076,
38.078,
38.145,
38.190 and
38.193 shall be nonreverting funds, and shall be administered by the City
Controller all pursuant to the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 43.003)
CAPITAL ASSETS POLICY
§ 38.015 PURPOSE.
   This capital asset policy will become effective on January 1, 2021. The
purpose of this policy follows:
   (A)   Facilitate the preparation of the City Annual Financial Report in
accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP);
   (B)   Support the process of financial reporting for accounting purposes
relative to the capital asset provisions of the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board Statement No. 34, Basic Financial Statements and Management’s
Discussion and Analysis - for State and Local Governments as they relate to
capital assets;
   (C)   Make possible the calculation of capital asset beginning and ending
balances and depreciation totals for gateway reporting;
   (D)   Manage and account for the acquisition, depreciation, and ultimate
disposal of the city’s capital assets that are used in current operations to
provide governmental services;
   (E)   Achieve stewardship of the city’s significant investment in capital
assets;
   (F)   Establish a basis for the annual reporting of additions and
retirements of capital assets making possible the accurate updating of the
comprehensive capital asset database; and
   (G)   Manage the city’s capital assets and related information economically,
efficiently, and effectively in the future.
(Ord. 21-0055, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 22-0027, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 38.016 CLASSIFICATION OF ASSETS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CAPITAL ASSETS are personal property and real property and other assets
used in the operations of the government that have an expected estimated useful
life beyond a single reporting period.
   (B)   Categories. Capital assets are to include any item that falls into one
of the following categories:
      (1)   Land;
      (2)   Improvements to land;
      (3)   Buildings and building improvements;
      (4)   Furnishings and equipment;
      (5)   Vehicles;
      (6)   Computer software;
      (7)   General infrastructure; and
      (8)   Construction in progress.
   (C)   Asset classification descriptions.
      (1)   LAND. Includes all land and right-of-way acquired for public use.
The amount of capitalization will be the total amount expended in acquiring the
land. Donated land will be capitalized at the current fair value or the amount
that would have been expended at the time of acquisition.
      (2)   IMPROVEMENTS TO LAND. Any type of alteration that makes the land
more useable with assets of a limited useful life. See definitions examples in
§§
38.025 and
38.026.
      (3)   BUILDINGS and BUILDING IMPROVEMENTS. Structures used in providing
governmental services. Costs to be capitalized include construction costs, all
fees and professional services that were necessary to complete the structure.
Care should be taken to separate, if combined, the cost of the building and
land as land is non-depreciable.
      (4)   FURNISHINGS and EQUIPMENT. Comprised of moveable assets used in
providing governmental services that are above the later referenced
capitalization threshold of $25,000 on a unit basis.
      (5)   Vehicles. A transportation conveyance or machine is used to move
people or goods.
      (6)   Computer software. Per the Governmental Accounting Standards Board
Statement No. 51 intangible assets including computer software whether
internally generated or acquired through a purchased license from a
commercially available provider.
      (7)   General infrastructure. Per the Governmental Accounting Standards
Board Statement No. 34 infrastructure assets are long-lived capital assets that
are stationary and include roads, bridges, tunnels, drainage systems, water and
sewer systems, dams, and lighting systems, and (rights-of-way, sidewalks,
traffic signals, and alleys).
      (8)   Construction in progress. As no benefit is received until an asset
is placed into service, building, and building improvements or infrastructure
for example are not capitalized or depreciated until government acceptance and
placement into use.
(Ord. 21-0055, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 22-0027, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 38.017 CAPITALIZATION THRESHOLDS.
   (A)   To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting purposes an
item must at the time of acquisition be valued for accounting and financial
reporting purpose at a unit value greater than or equal to $25,000 ($5,000 if
funded through a federal grant). All land and vehicles are to be included and
capitalized regardless of acquisition value.
   (B)   This increased capitalization threshold is to be applied prospectively
starting January 1, 2021.
   (C)   Assets shall remain as part of the property record until they are
retired, sold, traded, or otherwise disposed of regardless of their net book
value amount.
   (D)   In some instances, depending on asset classification, a higher
threshold is appropriate as indicated below due to the high cost of ongoing
repairs and maintenance. These are minimum amounts following consideration of
the ‘capitalizable’ nature of any expenditure as to asset improvement (capital)
versus asset repair and maintenance (expense).
   (E)   The capitalization threshold for the following classes of assets shall
be:
      (1)   Land: capitalize all;
      (2)   Improvements to land: $25,000;
      (3)   Buildings and building improvements: $100,000;
      (4)   Furnishings and equipment: $25,000;
      (5)   Vehicles: capitalize all;
      (6)   Federal grant furnishings and equipment: $5,000;
      (7)   Computer software: $25,000;
      (8)   General infrastructure: $100,000; and
      (9)   Construction in progress: report all.
   (F)   The concept of capitalizable is applied to an expenditure that is at
or above the established capitalization threshold of $25,000 or the higher
amount indicated of $100,000 for buildings and building improvements and
general infrastructure. This is meant to determine capitalization or expense in
the current period. To be a long-term governmental asset the determination
follows consideration of:
      (1)   Increased capacity;
      (2)   Increased efficiency; and
      (3)   An extension of estimated useful life beyond the original estimate.
   (G)   A new asset with an acquisition value over the capitalization
threshold and an estimated useful life beyond one year
   (H)   Changes in capitalization threshold are applied prospectively and some
items below any new threshold will remain until fully depreciated and removed
when they are retired from service.
   (I)   These capitalization amounts are based on asset acquisition value and
are guidelines only with reference to the concepts of capitalizable and
capitalization. Many repairs and maintenance are significant expenditures that
do not result in increased capacity, efficiency, or extension of estimated
useful life beyond the original expectation. These repairs and maintenance are
to be expensed in the current year as such. See the definitions and examples in
§§
38.025 and
38.026.
   (J)   All land, including rights-of-way, shall be capitalized at the time of
acquisition. If donated, it shall be recorded at the estimated fair value to
acquire similar property. All vehicles regardless of historical cost or
acquisition value will be capitalized.
   (K)   On major acquisitions and improvements of existing property,
capitalization shall take place following formal acceptance, use, and utility
in providing service as mentioned.
(Ord. 21-0055, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 22-0027, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 38.018 CAPITAL; EXPENSE AND IMPROVEMENT; REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE.
   There is an inherent difference between the terms CAPITAL and EXPENSE.
CAPITAL is defined as an asset or improvement to an asset that is at or above
the stated capitalization threshold for its particular classification.
   (A)   A CAPITAL ASSET or CAPITAL ASSET IMPROVEMENT may increase capacity,
efficiency, or extend the estimated useful life.
   (B)   An EXPENSE ACTIVITY merely maintains, restores, or repairs an asset to
the original service potential but does not necessarily improve the asset. See
definitions and examples in §§
38.025 and
38.026.
(Ord. 21-0055, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 22-0027, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 38.019 REPORTED VALUE OF CAPITAL ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets shall be recorded at a historical cost or acquisition
value which includes any ancillary charges necessary to place the asset into
its intended location and condition for use. Ancillary charges include, for
example, freight and transportation charges, site preparation costs, and
professional fees.
   (B)   Engineering costs (internal and external) include related preliminary
project and environmental studies; project estimating, design, and planning
(drawings and specifications); and construction engineering, construction
management, construction inspection, and project payment. However, no such
costs shall be capitalized unless they can be directly identified to a specific
capital asset and have been incurred after the determination that the capital
asset will be acquired, for example, the costs of a feasibility study are not
capitalizable.
(Ord. 21-0055, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 22-0027, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 38.020 ESTIMATED USEFUL LIVES OF DEPRECIABLE ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets have estimated useful lives extending beyond a single
reporting period of one year.
      (1)   City.
         (a)   Land: non-depreciable;
         (b)   Improvements to land: 20 years;
         (c)   Buildings and building improvements: 50 years;
         (d)   Machinery and equipment: five years;
         (e)   Vehicles:
            1.   Autos: five years;
            2.   Light trucks: eight years; and
            3.   Heavy trucks: 15 years.
         (f)   General infrastructure:
            1.   Streets: 50 years;
            2.   Bridges: 75 years;
            3.   Sidewalks: 40 years;
            4.   Alleys: 50 years;
            5.   Streetlights: 25 years; and
            6.   Traffic signals: 25 years.
         (g)   Computer software: five years.
      (2)   Water utility.
         (a)   Land: non-depreciable;
         (b)   Improvements to land: 20 years;
         (c)   Buildings and building improvements: 50 years;
         (d)   Process equipment: 25 years;
         (e)   Machinery and equipment: five years;
         (f)   Tanks, pumps, and the like: 25 years;
         (g)   Towers: 50 years;
         (h)   Pump stations: 25 years; and
         (i)   Water distribution system: 50 years.
      (3)   Sanitary sewer utility.
         (a)   Land: non-depreciable;
         (b)   Improvements to land: 20 years;
         (c)   Buildings and building improvements: 50 years;
         (d)   Process equipment (includes influent headwork, filters, and
sludge handling): 25 years;
         (e)   Machinery and equipment: five years;
         (f)   Lift stations: 25 years;
         (g)   Sanitary sewer collection: 50 years; and
         (h)   Storm water collection: 50 years.
      (4)   Marina.
         (a)   Land: non-depreciable;
         (b)   Improvements to land: 20 years;
         (c)   Buildings and building improvements: 50 years;
         (d)   Furnishings and equipment: five years;
         (e)   Vehicles and watercraft:
            1.   Autos: five years;
            2.   Light trucks: eight years;
            3.   Heavy trucks: 15 years; and
            4.   Watercraft: ten years.
   (B)   Any future changes to estimated useful lives will be applied
prospectively.
   (C)   Any future asset life increase or extension will reflect a significant
alteration, rehabilitation, or structural change.
(Ord. 21-0055, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 22-0027, passed 5-11-2022)
   
§ 38.021 DEPRECIATION METHOD AND CONVENTION.
   (A)   Depreciation will be calculated as to annual, accumulated, and net
book value amounts using the straight-line method and full-year convention. No
salvage value or residual value will be recognized. This will allow disclosure
of the annual loss of value due to use. The asset estimated useful life is the
divisor in this allocation over time.
   (B)   Governments depreciate capital assets to allocate reasonably the cost
of the asset over time. A capital asset only provides a benefit after it is
operational and placed into service. Depreciation is only recognized upon
acceptance and approval of the asset and after its use has begun.
(Ord. 21-0055, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 22-0027, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 38.022 RETIREMENTS.
   (A)   Retirements apply to all capital assets including land, improvements
to land, buildings, furnishings, and equipment, vehicles, and general
infrastructure.
   (B)   When an asset is disposed of, scrapped, sold, subject to demolition,
and the like, it is to be removed from the property record and the appropriate
reduction shall be made to the asset value, accumulated depreciation, and net
book value amounts.
   (C)   Retirements shall reflect the originally recorded value of the capital
asset when the amount is ascertainable. When the originally recorded value of
the capital asset is not ascertainable, an estimate of that amount (typically
historical cost) shall be made.
(Ord. 21-0055, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 22-0027, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 38.023 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY RECORD MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The Controller’s Office shall ensure that appropriate accounting for
capital assets is being exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory and
updating it each year. Each annual update shall reflect all improvements,
additions, retirements, and transfers that occurred during the year. The update
also shall ensure that the annual calculation of depreciation expense is
adjusted accordingly.
   (B)   Day-to-day stewardship of personal property above the capitalization
threshold of $25,000 is the responsibility of the department utilizing the
property.
   (C)   To allow for the annual updating of the capital asset records, the
departments are responsible to report information on improvements, additions,
retirements, and transfers in detail to the Controller. It is expected that
this reporting will be made promptly, as the capital asset record must be
updated annually (in essence, the Controller’s Office will record all additions
and the departments will determine all retirements and transfers).
   (D)   In summary, additions of assets at or above the unit capitalization
threshold of $25,000 are to be reported to the Controller’s Office by the
departments upon purchase or receipt of the asset. These will be verified per
the purchasing process by the Controller’s Office. Transfers and retirements of
assets at or above the $25,000 unit threshold are to be reported as such by the
departments to the Controller’s Office at the time of the transaction.
(Ord. 21-0055, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 22-0027, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 38.024 ASSETS PURCHASED WITH FEDERAL FUNDS.
   (A)   Assets at or above a threshold of $5,000 on a unit basis funded with a
federal grant are to be reported for federal compliance purposes.
   (B)   To achieve this end, a subsidiary list or other indicator is to be
established and maintained annually and includes all such assets currently in
use.
(Ord. 21-0055, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 22-0027, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 38.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL EXPENDITURES. Items at or above the stated capitalization thresholds
for new or replacement assets or expenditures that materially improve an asset,
increase the value, or add to the existed estimated useful life such as
buildings or infrastructure are capitalizable.
   CAPITAL OUTLAY. For improvements to buildings and general infrastructure,
must be significant and increase square footage, increase efficiency, or extend
the asset’s estimated useful life beyond what was originally estimated for the
expenditure to be considered capitalizable and subject to capitalization.
   CHANGE IN CAPACITY. Increases the level of service provided by the asset so
the expenditure is capitalizable.
   CHANGE IN EFFICIENCY. Either increases the level of service and asset
provides or allows for maintaining the same level of service at a lower cost so
the expenditure is capitalizable.
   EXTENDED ESTIMATED USEFUL LIFE. Will result from a significant alteration,
structural change, or improvement so expenditure is capitalizable.
   IMPROVEMENT TO LAND. Any type of alteration done to make it more useable
with assets that have a limited useful life; see examples in §
38.026.
   LICENSED VEHICLE. A conveyance used for transporting people or goods; see
examples in §
38.026.
(Ord. 21-0055, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 22-0027, passed 5-11-2022)
§ 38.026 EXAMPLES.
   (A)   While substantial repairs and renovations shall be reviewed for
potential capitalization, it is anticipated that most will be expensed in the
current year. These expenses often merely restore the asset to its original
service potential but do not necessarily improve the asset.
   (B)   Common building expense items include interior and exterior painting,
recarpeting, plumbing repairs and replacement, HVAC upgrades, and electrical
work. While many of these expenses can be substantial, there is generally no
increased building size or efficiency; hence, these costs are expensed in the
current year.
   (C)   An addition to a building provides increased square footage; hence,
the capacity is increased and the capital outlay is capitalized.
   (D)   A roof replacement does not increase building dimensions or
efficiency; hence, the cost of replacement should be expensed in the current
year.
   (E)   If buildings are componentized for accounting and financial reporting,
the roof replaced is expensed and the new roof is capitalized.
   (F)   A building remodeling may comprise a reconstruction as will be
reflected in the acquisition value of the project; hence this acquisition value
will be capitalized.
   (G)   A building restoration, while costly, may merely restore the building
to its original service sufficiency; hence, the restoration cost is expensed in
the current year.
   (H)   A project that improves a building with new windows of substantial
acquisition value providing for future energy cost reduction is capitalized
because of increased efficiency.
   (I)   Newly constructed or reconstructed roads are capitalized.
   (J)   Widening a road with additional lanes increases the amount of traffic
flow and; hence, the capital outlay is capitalized.
   (K)   Resurfacing a road, while costly, does not increase traffic volume or
efficiency; hence, the cost is expensed in the current year.
   (L)   Bridge joint repair and bridge deck resurfacing do not increase
proportions or efficiency; hence, repairs are to be expensed in the current
year.
   (M)   A newly constructed bridge or a bridge reconstruction are capitalized.
   (N)   Improvements to land include paved parking areas, fences, outdoor
lighting, playground equipment, water fountains, retaining walls, paths,
walkways, sheds, and other small structures.
   (O)   Vehicles include passenger autos, trucks (light, medium, heavy), sport
utility vehicles, railroad vehicles, tractors, bulldozers, buses, forklift
trucks, off-road vehicles, motorcycles, watercraft, and the like.
   (P)   Concerning vehicles and equipment, to replace a truck transmission is
a significant repair and expense; however, the truck is merely restored to good
working order and is not improved so the expenditure is expensed.
   (Q)   To rebuild a police squad car following a collision may be a
significant expenditure but is not capitalized in that the vehicle is merely
restored to good working order and the expenditure is expensed.
   (R)   A vehicle frame-off restoration or similar restoration may exceed the
original acquisition value of the vehicle; hence, this expenditure is
capitalized.
   (S)   General infrastructure includes roads, rights-of-way, bridges,
tunnels, drainage systems, dams, streetlights, traffic signals, sidewalks, and
improved alleys.
   (T)   Water and sewer systems include treatment facilities, pump stations,
lift stations, water distribution piping, sanitary sewer collection piping, and
all assets used in the provision of water and the treatment of waste.
(Ord. 21-0055, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 22-0027, passed 5-11-2022)
CUMULATIVE FUNDS
§ 38.040 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Re-established. There is re-established a Cumulative Capital
Development Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.185)
   (B)   Tax levy. An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the
revenues from the levy will be retained in the Cumulative Capital Development
Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.186)
   (C)   Maximum rate of tax levy. The maximum rate of levy under division (B)
above will not exceed the below amounts, or in amounts as set by the city from
time to time:
      (1)   Twelve cents per $100 assessed valuation for 1994;
      (2)   Twelve cents per $100 assessed valuation for 1995; and
      (3)   Twelve cents per $100 assessed valuation for 1996.
(Prior Code, § 43.187)
   (D)   Re-established for certain years. The Cumulative Capital Development
Fund is reestablished for the years 1994, 1995, and 1996.   
(Prior Code, § 43.188)
   (E)   Designated uses.
      (1)   The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Capital Development Fund
will be used for:
         (a)   Cumulative firefighting building, equipment;
         (b)   Police Radio and Motor Fund;
         (c)   Cumulative Transportation Fund— buses;
         (d)   Cumulative Building Fund;
         (e)   Cumulative Capital Improvement Fund;
         (f)   Cumulative Street Fund;
         (g)   General Improvement Fund;
         (h)   Cumulative Building Fund—sewers;
         (i)   Cumulative Drainage Fund;
         (j)   Cumulative Building Fund—parks; and
         (k)   Cumulative Sinking and Building Fund—parks.
      (2)   These funds are authorized under the authority of I.C. 8-16-3, 8-
22-3-25, 13-2-31-26, 13-3-3-89, 16-12.2-5-32, 36-8-14, 36-9-4-48, 36-9-16-2,
36-9-16-3, 36-9-16.5, 36-9-17, 36-9-26, 36-9-27-100, 36-10-3-21, and 36-10-4-
36.
(Prior Code, § 43.189)
   (F)   Other uses. Notwithstanding division (E) above, funds accumulated in
the City Cumulative Capital Development Fund may be spent for purposes other
than the purposes stated in division (E) above, if the purpose is to protect
the public health, welfare, or safety in an emergency situation which demands
immediate action. Money may be spent under the authority of this section only
after the Mayor issues a declaration that the public health, welfare, or safety
is in immediate danger that requires the expenditure of money in the Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.190)
(Ord. 3382, passed - -1984; Ord. 0-93-0011, passed - -1993)
§ 38.041 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with the requirements of I.C. 6-7-1-31.1, there is
created a special fund into which the cigarette taxes allotted to the city by
reason of I.C. 6-7-1-30.1 shall be deposited.
      (2)   The Fund shall be a cumulative fund and all of the money deposited
into the Fund shall be appropriated and used solely for capital improvements,
as hereinafter defined, and none of the money shall revert to the General Fund
or be used for any purposes other than capital improvements.
   (B)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
         (a)   The construction or improvement of any property owned by the
city, including but not limited to streets, thoroughfares, and sewers and the
retirement of general obligation bonds of the city issued, and the proceeds of
which shall be used for the purpose of constructing capital improvements.
         (b)   The term CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT shall not include salaries of any
public officials or employees except those which are directly chargeable to a
capital improvement.
(Prior Code, § 43.015)
§ 38.042 CUMULATIVE FIRE DEPARTMENT FUND.
   (A)   Created; purpose.
      (1)   There is adopted by the city a cumulative fund for the needs and
use of the City Fire Department.
      (2)   The Cumulative Fund shall be for the purpose of raising funds for
the erection of fire stations and the erection of additions to and the
remodeling of the present buildings used to house firefighting equipment and
for the purchase of firefighting equipment, or to make the required payments
under a lease rental with option to purchase agreement made to acquire
equipment.
(Prior Code, § 43.045)
   (B)   Expenditures. No expenditures shall be made from the Cumulative Fund
except after an appropriation therefor has been made in the manner provided by
law for making other appropriation.
(Prior Code, § 43.046)
   (C)   Tax levy; amount. To provide funds for the cumulative building,
remodeling, or equipment fund, a tax levy on all taxable property within the
city limits is adopted not to exceed $0.10 on the $100 of assessed valuation of
the property located within the limits of the city taxing district.
(Prior Code, § 43.047)
   (D)   Tax levy; when levied. The cumulative fund tax may be levied annually
beginning with the first annual tax levy after adoption by the Common Council
and approval by the State Board of Tax Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 43.048)
   (E)   Tax levy; advertisement; reduction, rescission.
      (1)   The cumulative fund tax levy shall be advertised as other tax
levies annually, beginning with the first annual tax levy; provided, that if
the Common Council deem it advisable to do so, after the levy has been
approved, it may reduce or rescind the annual levy or ten or more taxpayers of
the city who will be affected by the tax, may file with the County Auditor not
later than August 1 of any year, a petition for reduction or revision of the
levy setting forth their objections to the levy.
      (2)   The petition shall be certified to the State Board of Tax
Commissioners and the same procedure for notice and hearing shall be followed
as provided for by law.
(Prior Code, § 43.049)
   (F)   Tax levy; deposit; additional purposes. As the tax is collected, it
shall be deposited in a qualified public depository or depositories and shall
be held in a special fund known as the Building and/or Remodeling Firefighting
Fund. The funds shall not be used for any other purpose than the purpose for
which it was raised.
(Prior Code, § 43.050)
§ 38.043 CUMULATIVE FIREFIGHTING BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is established a Cumulative Firefighting Building
and Equipment Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.065)
   (B)   Tax levy. A property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from
the levy will be deposited and held in a special fund to be known as the
Building or Remodeling, Firefighting, and Police Radio Equipment Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.066)
   (C)   Maximum rate of tax levy. The maximum rate of levy under division (B)
above will not exceed an amount as set by the city from time to time of
assessed valuation of property.
(Prior Code, § 43.067)
   (D)   Established for certain year. The Cumulative Firefighting Building and
Equipment Fund is established for 1996.
(Prior Code, § 43.068)
   (E)   Designated uses. The funds accumulated in the Cumulative Firefighting
Building and Equipment Fund will be used for:
      (1)   The purchase, construction, renovation, or addition to buildings
used by the Fire Department;
      (2)   The purchase of firefighting equipment for use of the Fire
Department, including making the required payments under a lease rental with
option to purchase agreement made to acquire the equipment;
      (3)   The purpose of police radio equipment; and
      (4)   The purchase, construction, renovation, or addition to a building,
or the purchase of equipment, for use of a provider of emergency medical
services under I.C. 16-31-5.
(Prior Code, § 43.069)
(Ord. 0-94-0015, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-95-0009, passed - -1995)
NONREVERTING FUNDS
§ 38.055 NONREVERTING COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEBT SERVICE RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby established a Nonreverting Community
Development Debt Service Reserve Fund for debt service purposes.
(Prior Code, § 43.310)
   (B)   Deposits.
      (1)   There is to be deposited into the Nonreverting Community
Development Debt Service Reserve Fund property taxes and any other lawful funds
which may be used for community development debt service purposes.
      (2)   Monies deposited in the Nonreverting Community Development Debt
Service Reserve Fund shall be used only for the retirement of community
development debt.
(Prior Code, § 43.311)
   (C)   Expenditures. Monies from the Nonreverting Community Development Debt
Service Reserve Fund may be expended by appropriation of the Common Council and
may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed by the Board of Public Works
and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 43.312)
   (D)   Termination of funds. The Nonreverting Community Development Debt
Service Reserve Fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance in the Fund shall be transferred
to the city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.313)
(Ord. 0-99-0031, passed 12-30-1999)
§ 38.056 NONREVERTING FIRE DEPARTMENT CAPITAL FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a Nonreverting Fire
Department Capital Fund for purchases of Fire Department equipment and other
capital matters.
(Prior Code, § 43.080)
   (B)   Deposits.
      (1)   There is to be deposited into the Nonreverting Fire Department
Capital Fund fees collected or grants received by the Department and any other
lawful funds which may be used for similar purposes.
      (2)   Monies deposited in the Nonreverting Fire Department Capital Fund
shall be used only for the purchase of Fire Department equipment and other
capital projects.
(Prior Code, § 43.081)
   (C)   Designated uses. Monies from the Nonreverting Fire Department Capital
Fund may be expended by appropriation of the Common Council and may be
disbursed only on approved claims allowed by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
(Prior Code, § 43.082)
   (D)   Perpetual. The Nonreverting Fire Department Capital Fund shall be
perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund terminate for any lawful reason,
any balance in the Fund shall be transferred to the city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.083)
(Ord. 0-00-0019, passed 9-11-2000)
§ 38.057 NONREVERTING GRANT FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a Nonreverting Grant Fund for
the purpose of accounting for the operations of the grant programs.
(Prior Code, § 43.340)
   (B)   Deposits. Monies deposited in the Fund shall be used for the
operations of grant programs.
(Prior Code, § 43.341)
   (C)   Expenditures. Monies from the Fund may be disbursed only on approved
claims allowed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 43.342)
   (D)   Termination of fund. The Fund shall be perpetual in nature; however,
should the Fund terminate for any lawful reason, any balance in the Fund shall
be disbursed to civil city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.343)
(Ord. 0-01-0008, passed 4-11-2001)
§ 38.058 NONREVERTING IMMUNIZATION FUND.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby established a Nonreverting Immunization Fund
for management and maintenance of the city’s immunization program.
(Prior Code, § 43.295)
   (B)   Deposits.
      (1)   There is to be deposited into the Nonreverting Immunization Fund
fees collected or grants received by this program and any other lawful funds
which may be used for the immunization program purposes.
      (2)   Monies deposited in the Nonreverting Immunization Fund shall be
used only for the management and maintenance of the city’s immunization
program.
(Prior Code, § 43.296)
   (C)   Expenditures. Monies from the Nonreverting Immunization Fund may be
expended by appropriation of the Common Council and may be disbursed only on
approved claims allowed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 43.297)
   (D)   Termination of fund. The Nonreverting Immunization Fund shall be
perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund terminate for any lawful reason,
any balance in the Fund shall be transferred to the city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.298)
(Ord. 0-99-0030, passed 12-30-1999)
§ 38.059 PARK NONREVERTING CAPITAL FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Park Nonreverting Capital Fund 0403 for
the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the city’s Rico
Lawsuit Proceeds and other park capital improvements revenues.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used as approved by the Common
Council.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the Common Council.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed as
approved by the Common Council.
(Ord. 13-0019, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 38.060 SPECIAL NONREVERTING OPERATING FUND AND PARK AND RECREATIONAL
PURPOSES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Special Nonreverting Operating Fund for
city Park and Recreational purposes,
   (B)   There is to be deposited into said Special Nonreverting Operating Fund
fees received from all recreational programs.
   (C)   Monies deposited in said Special Nonreverting Operating Fund shall be
used for the programs generating said Funds.
   (D)   Money from the Special Nonreverting Operating Fund hereby created may
be expended by appropriation of the City Park and Recreation Board and may be
disbursed only on approved claims allowed and signed by the President and
Secretary of the Board.
(Ord. 11-0013, passed 7-25-2011)
REVOLVING FUNDS
§ 38.075 COMMUNICATIONS REVOLVING FUND.
   To ensure the most efficient communication for all city departments at the
least possible cost there is created the Communications Revolving Fund for the
receipt and disbursement of all funds concerned with communication.
(Prior Code, § 43.140) (Ord. 3254, passed - -1980)
§ 38.076 DATA PROCESSING REVOLVING FUND.
   To ensure the maximum utilization of the Data Processing Department and its
equipment at the least possible cost to the city there is created the Data
Processing Revolving Fund for the receipt and disbursement of all funds related
to data processing.
(Prior Code, § 43.125) (Ord. 3254, passed - -1980)
§ 38.077 EC/GARY/HAMMOND REVOLVING LOAN CONSORTIUM FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established an EC/Gary/Hammond Revolving Loan
Consortium Fund 0757 for the purpose of accounting for receipts and
disbursements of the EC/Gary/Hammond RAL Consortium activities.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used in accordance with the EC/
Gary/Hammond R.F. Consortium grant agreement.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the Common Council.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed in
accordance with the grant agreement.
(Ord. 11-0037, passed 12-26-2011)
§ 38.078 PARK AND RECREATION REVOLVING FUND.
   To ensure the maximum utilization of the park and recreation facilities at
the least possible cost to city there is created the Park and Recreation
Revolving Fund for the receipt and disbursement of all funds in connection with
Park and Recreation Department activities.
(Prior Code, § 43.155) (Ord. 3254, passed - -1980)
§ 38.079 SSED REVOLVING LOAN FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a SSED Revolving Loan Fund 0755 for the
purpose of accounting for the receipt of the SSED Revolving Loan activities.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used in accordance with the
SSED R.F. grant agreement.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the Common Council.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed in
accordance with the grant agreement.
(Ord. 11-0037, passed 12-26-2011)
TIF FUNDS
§ 38.090 LAKESIDE GARDENS PROJECT TIF FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Lakeside Gardens Project TIF Fund 0000
for the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the city’s
Lakeside Gardens TIF activities.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for the payment of the
Economic Development Tax Increment Revenue Bonds, Series 2014 (Lakeside Gardens
Project).
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the Common Council.
   (D)   Upon fund purpose fulfillment, being payment of the bonds for their
term of 25 years, any balance of said Fund shall be transferred to the Civil
City General Fund.
(Ord. 16-0015, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 38.091 NORTHTOWN VILLAGE TOWNHOMES TIF FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Northtown Village Townhomes TIF Fund
0290 for the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the
city’s Northtown Village Townhomes TIF activities.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be disbursed as allowed by said
TIF Resolution.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the City Redevelopment Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Upon fund purpose fulfillment, any balance of said Fund shall be
disbursed as lawfully allowed.
(Ord. 13-0020, passed 7-22-2013)
§ 38.092 RILEY PLAZA TIF FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Riley Plaza TIF Fund 0289 for the
purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the city’s Riley
Plaza TIF activities.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for the payment of the
Taxable Economic Development Revenue Bonds 2007A (Riley Plaza Project).
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the Common Council.
   (D)   Upon fund purpose fulfillment, any balance of said Fund shall be
transferred to the Civil City General Fund.
(Ord. 11-0014, passed 7-25-2011)
§ 38.093 TIF ANNEX ALLOCATION AREA FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a TIF Annex Allocation Area Fund 0292 for
the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the city’s
Annex Allocation Area TIF activities.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for the payment of the
Taxable Economic Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2015 (Hoist Lift Mfg.).
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the City Redevelopment Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Upon fund purpose fulfillment, any balance of said Fund shall be
transferred to the Civil City General Fund.
(Ord. 17-0032, passed 12-20-2017)
§ 38.094 US GYPSUM TIF FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a US Gypsum TIF Fund 0288 for the purpose
of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the city’s USG TIF
activities.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for the payment of the EC
Redevelopment Commission TIF Bonds 1999A (USG).
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the Common Council.
   (D)   Upon fund purpose fulfillment, any balance of said Fund shall be
transferred to the Civil City General Fund.
(Ord. 11-0014, passed 7-25-2011)
§ 38.095 TIF LAKEFRONT ALLOCATION AREA III FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the TIF Lakefront Allocation Area III Fund
4452 for the purpose of accounting for the receipts from TIF revenues and for
the disbursements of the debt expenses of the Economic Development Revenue
Bonds, Series 2022 (EC Rail Terminal Project).
   (B)   Monies deposited in the Fund shall be used for debt payment purposes
only.
   (C)   Monies from the Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the city’s Redevelopment Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   The Fund shall terminate for any lawful reason and any balance of the
Fund shall be disbursed to an economic development agency or government entity.
(Ord. 23-0036, passed 10-11-2023)
COURT AND POLICE FUNDS
§ 38.110 ALCOHOL AND DRUG PROGRAM USERS FEE FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established an Alcohol and Drug Program
Users Fee Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.430)
   (B)   Deposits. Monies deposited in the Fund shall be used to supplement the
operations of the adult Drug Court program.
(Prior Code, § 43.431)
   (C)   Expenditures. Monies from the Fund may be disbursed only on approved
claims allowed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 43.432)
   (D)   Termination of fund. The Fund shall be perpetual in nature; however,
should the Fund terminate any balance of the Fund shall be disbursed to the
civil city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.433)
(Ord. 0-02-0014, passed - -2002)
§ 38.111 CITY COURT FIRST OFFENDER’S FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a Conditional Discharge for
First Offender’s Fund for the City Court.
(Prior Code, § 43.490)
   (B)   Cost. The Court shall assess a cost for the Fund, a fee in an amount
as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 43.491)
   (C)   Deposits. The funds generated shall be deposited with the Controller’s
office and a quietus shall be delivered to the Court.
(Prior Code, § 43.492)
   (D)   Expenditures. Expenditures from the Fund shall be used in order to
implement programs of the City Court necessary to establish, implement, and
operate the first offenders program.
(Prior Code, § 43.493)
   (E)   Termination of fund.
      (1)   The funds are nonreverting and the life of the Fund is perpetual
until terminated by a subsequent ordinance enacted by this Council.
      (2)   In the event of the closure of the City Court, the remaining funds
shall become part of the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 43.494)
(Ord. 0-06-0016, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 38.112 CITY COURT PUBLIC DEFENDER’S FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a Public Defender Fund for
the City Court.
(Prior Code, § 43.505)
   (B)   Cost. The Court shall assess a cost for misdemeanor actions a fee in
an amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 43.506)
   (C)   Deposits. The funds generated shall be deposited with the Controller’s
office and a quietus shall be delivered to the Court.
(Prior Code, § 43.507)
   (D)   Expenditures. Funds generated by the Court’s Public Defender Fund
shall be used in order to further develop programming for the Court, to enhance
community programming and for all other Court activity as assessed and deemed
necessary for the smooth efficient operation of the City Court.
(Prior Code, § 43.508)
   (E)   Termination of fund.
      (1)   The funds are nonreverting and the life of the Fund is perpetual
until terminated by a subsequent ordinance enacted by this Council.
      (2)   In the event of the closure of the City Court, the remaining funds
shall become part of the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 43.509)
(Ord. 0-06-0017, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 38.113 COURT DRIVING SCHOOL FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a Court Defensive Program
Fund for the purpose of accounting for the operations of the Court Defensive
Program.
(Prior Code, § 43.400)
   (B)   Deposits. Monies deposited in the Fund shall be used for the
operations of the City Court.
(Prior Code, § 43.401)
   (C)   Expenditures. Monies from the Fund may be disbursed only on approved
claims allowed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 43.402)
   (D)   Termination of fund. The Fund shall be perpetual in nature; however,
should the Fund terminate for any lawful reason, any balance in the Fund shall
be disbursed to the civil city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.403)
(Ord. 0-01-0041, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 38.114 DARE FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a DARE Fund for the purpose
of accounting for the operations of the city’s DARE program.
(Prior Code, § 43.355)
   (B)   Deposits. Monies deposited in the Fund shall be used for the
operations of the city’s DARE program.
(Prior Code, § 43.356)
   (C)   Expenditures. Monies from the Fund may be disbursed only on approved
claims allowed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 43.357)
   (D)   Termination of fund. The Fund shall be perpetual in nature; however,
should the Fund terminate for any lawful reason, any balance in the Fund shall
be disbursed to civil city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.358)
(Ord. 0-01-0009, passed 4-11-2001)
§ 38.115 GENERAL ADULT PROBATION SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   There is created a General Adult Probation Services Fund in which the
City Clerk shall deposit the initial probation user’s fee and any monthly
probation user’s fee.
   (B)   Money deposited in the Fund is appropriated to the City Court Adult
Probation Services Program.
(Prior Code, § 43.205) (Ord. 3409, passed - -1985)
§ 38.116 INFRACTION DEFERRAL FUND.
   (A)   The Court shall establish an Infraction Deferral Fund for the City
Court.
   (B)   The Court shall assess a cost pursuant to the Infraction Deferral
Program Agreement and I.C. 34-28-5-1(f).
   (C)   The Funds generated shall be deposited with the Controller’s Office
and a quietus shall be delivered to the Court.
   (D)   Funds generated by Courts Infraction Deferral Program shall be used in
order to further develop programming for the Court, to enhance Community
programming and for all other Court activity as assessed and deemed necessary
for the smooth efficient operation of the City Court and by an appropriations
ordinance passed and adopted by the Common Council.
(Ord. 17-0011, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 38.117 LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT GRANTS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Local Law Enforcement Grants Fund 0276
for the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the city’s
Local Law Enforcement grants.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used in accordance with the
grant agreement.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the Common Council.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed in
accordance with the grant agreement.
(Ord. 11-0014, passed 7-25-2011)
§ 38.118 POLICE LOCAL FORFEITURES FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Police Local Forfeitures Fund 0286 for
the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of law enforcement
programs of the city that are undertaken in support of and pursuant to the laws
of the state regarding the disposition of forfeitures associated with local
criminal investigations.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for the purpose and in
support of the purposes set forth in division (A) above according to the laws
of the state.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the Common Council.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed as
lawfully allowed.
(Ord. 12-0031, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 38.119 CONFIDENTIAL INVESTIGATION FUND.
   (A)   Established.
      (1)   Creation of confidential investigation fund.
         (a)   There is hereby established a Confidential Investigation Fund
(“Fund”) which shall be capitalized by money appropriated by the Common
Council, and by money received by the City Police Department as its share of
federal and state forfeitures provided that such funds are properly received
and processed by the City Controller.
         (b)   The Fund shall be managed by the Chief of the City Police
Department.
         (c)   The Fund shall audited annually. or more frequently, as directed
by the City Controller or the Chief of Police.
         (d)   Members of the City Police Department requesting or utilizing
monies from the Fund shall adhere to the procedures set forth herein, as well
as to departmental procedures which may be established by the Chief of Police
or other authority of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   Purpose of confidential investigation fund.
         (a)   The purpose of the Confidential Investigation Fund is to enable
officers or investigators to make controlled purchases of illegal drugs and
other illegal substances; make controlled purchases of other illicit items; to
pay confidential informants as necessary in the course of criminal
investigations to gather evidence in order to make arrests of criminal
suspects; to provide for the safety of witnesses providing information in
criminal investigations, including providing for temporary or permanent
relocation of the individual witness or confidential informant and that
person’s family, and to provide for an accounting of monies so used.
         (b)   For the purpose of this division (A)(2), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANT. A person who provides information regarding
a criminal investigation and/or cooperates with a criminal investigation,
frequently on an ongoing basis.
            CONTROLLED BUY. The authorized, observed purchase of illegal
substances or items conducted under the authority of law enforcement to provide
evidence of ongoing criminal activity or criminal conspiracy.
      (3)   Approved uses of fund.
         (a)   The money from this Fund shall be utilized in the following
manner:
            1.      For the payment of confidential informants working with or
providing information to specific units of the City Police Department when such
information cannot reasonably be procured in the absence of such payment.
            2.   For the payment of witnesses in criminal investigations where
necessary witness statements or evidence cannot otherwise be secured, or to
provide for rewards for information leading to the identification, arrest or
prosecution of criminal suspects.
            3.   For controlled buys of illicit or illegal substances or items
in the course of criminal investigations including but not limited to:
               a.   Illegal drugs, to include schedule I-V illegal drugs, and
other illegal drugs as defined under I.C. 35-48-2 or prohibited under 21 U.S.C.
§§ 801, 801a, 802, 811, 812, 813, or 814 including illegal drug analogues,
imposter substances and prohibited drug paraphernalia.
               b.   Prescription drugs which are possessed or sold illegally.
               c.   Firearms which are which are possessed, transported or sold
illegally, or used, transported or sold for an illegal purpose.
               d.   Alcoholic beverages which are possessed or sold illegally.
               e.   Stolen items.
             4.   For acquisition of miscellaneous items pertaining to the
specific needs of an investigation.
      (4)   Other requirements.
         (a)   The Chief of Police shall ensure that the Fund is used for
legitimate law enforcement and crime detection purposes for investigations
reasonably likely to lead to the arrest of criminal suspects.
         (b)   The Chief of Police shall ensure that current and accurate
bookkeeping is maintained and that voucher and cash records concerning the
disbursement of any money distributed from the Fund are accurately maintained
and made available for examination by the City Controller.
         (c)   The Chief of Police, officers, investigators and other members
of the City Police Department and the City Controller shall take reasonable
care to ensure that the confidentiality of ongoing investigations are not
compromised nor are confidential informants jeopardized by the method of
administration of the Fund.
         (d)   The names or identities of confidential informants shall be
protected as investigatory records of the City Police Department in keeping
with I.C. 5-14-3-4-(b). The names and true identities of confidential
informants shall not be released except at the discretion of the Chief of
Police, or when ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (e)   Neither the existence of the Confidential Investigation Fund nor
expenditures made under the Fund are intended to be confidential, or exempt
from state or federal law governing the use of public monies, laws governing
criminal investigations or other public disclosure requirements.
   (B)   Procedures for use of funds.
      (1)   Procurement of funds through voucher system. Investigators or
officers who use money from the Fund will obtain such money from the person or
officer designated by the Chief of Police. All requests for such money will
require the approval of the Chief of Police Commander or his/her designee.
Monies from the Fund shall not be released without such approval. In addition
to the procedures outlined below, the Chief of Police may set additional
departmental procedures for the administration of the Fund. To procure money
from the Fund, the investigator must complete the Confidential Fund voucher
form (“Voucher”), adhering to the following:
         (a)   General procedures.
            1.   The voucher shall be completed with a summary of available,
relevant details regarding the case, and the use of the requested money.
            2.   If a case number is available, the case number or numbers
shall be placed on the voucher.
             3.   The officer or investigator making the request for funds must
specify the exact amount of money requested, and whether specific dominations
are preferred, and for what reason.
            4.   The officer or investigator utilizing such money from the Fund
must describe in writing the nature of the expenditure and the enforcement
action to be taken as a result of the expenditure.
            5.   The officer or investigator must detail the purpose of the
requested funds, specifically, whether money is for payment of a confidential
informant, for a controlled buy or other purpose, and the exact amount intended
to be used for each purpose.
            6.   All currency utilized for a controlled buy situation or
provided to a confidential informant will be specifically identified, and a
record of that information shall be included with the voucher.
         (b)   Controlled buys. The voucher shall be completed with a summary
of available details regarding the case, and the controlled buy, including,
date and location (if known) of the planned control buy.
         (c)   Confidential informants. If a confidential informant will
possess or handle such money, the confidential informant’s code number will be
placed on the voucher.
         (d)   Rewards, witnesses, and other expenses.
            1.   If a reward for information in a particular investigation is
offered, details of the criminal incident, amount of the reward offered, and
names or code numbers of persons collecting such reward and the amount
collected by each individual shall be placed on the voucher.
            2.   If money from the Fund is to be paid to witnesses, for witness
relocation or other authorized expenses, such expenses shall be summarized and
noted on the voucher form, while a file containing a record of individuals to
whom such money was paid, detailed, itemized expenses and other pertinent
details is to be maintained by the Police Department.
         (e)   Recovery or return of funds.
            1.   If money from the Fund is not used, is recovered or is
returned in such a way that it is not needed for evidence in a case, such money
shall be returned to the Fund and the details noted on the voucher.
            2.    If money from the Fund is recovered due to an arrest,
execution of a warrant or similar means which necessitates its use as evidence,
such money is to be checked into evidence according to standard departmental
procedure.
            3.   If, or when money from the Fund is released from evidence and
returned to the city, the same shall be noted on the voucher form, and the
money returned to the Fund in keeping with the law and Controller’s Office
accounting procedures.
         (f)   Accounting.
            1.   When buy money is recovered or returned for any reason, the
same shall be reported to the Chief of Police and the City Controller to
provide for a proper accounting of such monies.
            2.   The Chief of Police shall balance the Fund account on a
monthly basis.
            3.   The Chief of Police may request that the City Controller
review the Fund at anytime.
            4.   The City Controller may request a review the Fund at any time.
   (C)   Accounting review and audits.
      (1)   The City Controller shall review all books maintained in connection
with the Fund on an annual basis.
      (2)   The City Controller may, at his or her discretion, perform or cause
to be performed a formal audit of the Fund annually, or at any time the
Controller deems necessary.
      (3)   A written report documenting the review and or audit result shall
be prepared and submitted to the Chief of Police for review. Any irregularities
shall be noted in the report.
      (4)   After review by the Chief of Police, or his/her-designee, the audit
report shall be forwarded to the Board of Public Safety for inclusion in its
file.
      (5)   The City Controller shall provide copies of any Fund review or
audit result to the State Board of Accounts in conjunction with any State Board
of Accounts audit of the City or Police Department.
   (D)   Termination of fund. The Fund shall be perpetual in nature; however,
should the Fund be terminated by any superseding law or other reason, then in
keeping with the law any balance in the Fund shall be disbursed to civil city’s
General Fund.
(Ord. 15-0026, passed 11-23-2015)
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION FUNDS
§ 38.130 BUILDING DEMOLITION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Building Demolition Fund 0219 for the
purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the State Housing
and Community Development Authority Blight Elimination Program Grant, other
grants and other building demolition revenues.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for the purposes described
in the grant agreement and as approved by the Common Council.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the Common Council.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed in
accordance with the grant agreement and as lawfully allowed.
(Ord. 14-0019, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 38.131 BUILDING DEPARTMENT CHANGE FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a nonreverting Change Fund
for the Building Department for the purpose of making change when collection of
funds from the public for services or records is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 43.475)
   (B)   Fund limit. The Change Fund shall not exceed an amount as set by the
city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 43.476)
   (C)   Initial deposit. There is to be deposited in the Change Fund an
initial deposit from the city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.477)
   (D)   Termination of fund. This Fund shall continue in perpetuity, however,
should the Fund terminate for any lawful reason any balance shall be
transferred to the city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.478)
(Ord. 0-05-0022, passed 7-11-2005)
§ 38.132 MAJOR MOVES CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby created a nonreverting Major Moves
Construction Fund 450 for the receipt of the city’s portion of the Major Moves
Construction Fund proceeds.
(Prior Code, § 43.520)
   (B)   Uses. The permissible uses of those funds, as established by I.C. 8-
14-16-5 are:
      (1)   Construction of highways, roads, and bridges;
      (2)   Any purpose for which the Regional Development Authority may expend
money under I.C. 36-7.5;
      (3)   Provide funding for economic development projects as defined in
I.C. 6-3.5-7-13.1(c)(1) or 6-3.5-7-13.1(c)(2)(A) through 6-3.5-7-13.1(c)(2)(K);
      (4)   Provide matching funds for federal grants for any of these
permissible uses of Major Moves Construction Fund money; and
      (5)   Provide funding for interlocal agreements under I.C. 36-1-7 for any
of these permissible uses of Major Moves Construction Fund money.
(Prior Code, § 43.521)
(Ord. 0-06-0043, passed 10-10-2006)
§ 38.133 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established an Unsafe Building Fund for
the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.445)
   (B)   Deposits. Monies deposited in the Fund shall be used for the
demolition of unsafe buildings.
(Prior Code, § 43.446)
   (C)   Expenditures. Monies from the Fund may be disbursed only on approved
claims allowed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 43.447)
   (D)   Termination of fund. The Fund shall be perpetual in nature; however,
should the Fund terminate for any lawful reason, any balance in the Fund shall
be disbursed to the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 43.448)
(Ord. 0-02-0043, passed 12-12-2002)
PUBLIC WORKS; UTILITY FUNDS
§ 38.145 GASOLINE FUND.
   To ensure the cheapest possible cost of gasoline and motor fuel and the
control of the use thereof, there is created a revolving fund to be known as
the City Gasoline Fund for the receipt and disbursement of all monies of all
executive departments of the city for gasoline and fuel oil.
(Prior Code, § 43.095) (Ord. 3254, passed - -1980)
§ 38.146 SANITARY LEVY EXCESS FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant I.C. 6-1.1-18.5-17, there is hereby established a Sanitary
Levy Excess Fund 0721 for the purpose of accounting for the receipts and
disbursements of the property taxes received which exceeds 100% of the taxing
unit’s ad valorem property tax levy.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used as provided by the
Department of Local Government Finance approval of the taxing unit’s budget.
   (C)   Disbursements from the Fund shall be made upon Certification by the
City Controller and the approval of claims by the EC Sanitary District Board of
Commissioners.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance in said Fund shall be disbursed as
determined by the Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 11-0014, passed 7-25-2011)
§ 38.147 SANITARY RAINY DAY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Sanitary District Rainy Day Fund 0272.
   (B)   The source of funding the Rainy Day Fund is the one-time supplemental
distribution from the state to the county pursuant to I.C. 6-3.6-9-17.
   (C)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for the District’s
infrastructure or for any other lawful purpose.
   (D)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the city’s Sanitary District Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed as
lawfully allowed.
(Ord. 17-0031, passed 12-20-2017)
§ 38.148 SEWAGE UTILITY BOND AND INTEREST FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Sewage Utility Bond and Interest Fund
0607 for the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the
sewage utility debt obligation activities.
   (B)   Sewage bond and interest payments shall be deposited in said Fund and
shall be used in the payment of debt obligations.
   (C)   Disbursements from the Fund shall be made upon the approval of claims
by the City Sanitary District Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed as
determined by bond transcript and as lawfully allowed.
(Ord. 14-0032, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 38.149 SEWAGE UTILITY CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Sewage Utility Construction Fund 0609
for the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the bond
proceeds for the construction of certain additions and improvements to the
sewage works and sanitary storm sewer of the city’s Sanitary District.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for the purposes described
in the reports containing project specifications and as approved by the city’s
Sanitary District Board of Commissioners,
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by city’s Sanitary District Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed as
lawfully allowed.
(Ord. 14-0021, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 38.150 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a Stormwater Management Fund
for the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the city’s
stormwater management activities. No stormwater customer fees are established
by this subchapter. No stormwater user fees shall be deposited into this Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.460)
   (B)   Expenditures. Expenditures from the Fund shall be used for the study
of all stormwater management issues and for the construction and maintenance of
facilities and public works necessary for the management of stormwater.
(Prior Code, § 43.461)
   (C)   Termination of fund. The Fund so created shall be nonreverting and the
Fund shall exist until terminated by the enactment of a subsequent ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 43.462)
   (D)   Disbursements. Disbursements from the Fund shall be made upon
certification by the City Controller and the approval of claims by the Storm
Management Board.
(Prior Code, § 43.463)
(Ord. 0-05-0010, passed 4-25-2005)
§ 38.151 WATER BOND AND INTEREST FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Water Bond and Interest Fund 0602 for
the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements the water utility
debt obligation activities.
   (B)   Water bond and interest payments shall be deposited in said Fund and
shall be used in the payment of debt obligations.
   (C)   Disbursements from the Fund shall be made upon the approval of claims
by the EC Water Utility Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed as
determined by bond transcript.
(Ord. 11-0037, passed 12-26-2011)
§ 38.152 WATER TANK REFURBISHMENT FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a Water Tank Refurbishment
Fund for the purpose of accounting for the operations of the water tank
refurbishment program.
(Prior Code, § 43.370)
   (B)   Deposits. Monies deposited in the Fund shall be used for the
operations of the water tank refurbishment program.
(Prior Code, § 43.371)
   (C)   Expenditures. Monies from the Fund may be disbursed only on approved
claims allowed by the City Water Board.
(Prior Code, § 43.372)
   (D)   Termination of fund. The Fund shall be perpetual in nature; however,
should the Fund terminate for any lawful reason, any balance in the Fund shall
be disbursed to the City Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 43.373)
(Ord. 0-01-0010, passed 4-11-2001)
§ 38.153 WATER UTILITY CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Water Utility Construction Fund 0605 for
the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the water
utility construction projects.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be for the payment of water
utility construction projects.
   (C)   Disbursements from the Fund shall be made upon certification by the
City Controller and the approval of claims by the EC Water Utility Board of
Trustees. Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed as
determined by the project agreement.
(Ord. 11-0014, passed 7-25-2011)
§ 38.154 WATER UTILITY DEBT RESERVE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Water Utility Debt Reserve Fund 0632 for
the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the Water
Utility Debt Reserve.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be in fulfillment of Water Utility
Bond issuance requirements,
   (C)   Disbursements from the Fund shall be made upon the approval of claims
by the EC Water Utility Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed as
determined by bond transcript.
(Ord. 11-0037, passed 12-26-2011)
§ 38.155 WATER UTILITY GRANTS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Water Utility Grants Fund 0650 for the
purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of Water Utility
grants.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be for the payments in accordance
with the grant agreement.
   (C)   Disbursements from the Fund shall be made upon certification by the
City Controller and the approval of claims by the EC Water Utility Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed in
accordance with the grant agreement.
(Ord. 11-0014, passed 7-25-2011)
§ 38.156 WATER UTILITY METER DEPOSIT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Water Utility Meter Deposit Fund 0604
for the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the water
utility customer deposit activities.
   (B)   Water Utility customer deposits shall be deposited in said Fund and
shall be used for customer deposit refunds.
   (C)   Disbursements from the Fund shall be made upon certification by the
City Controller and the approval of claims by the EC Water Utility Board of
Trustees.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be transferred
to the Water Utility Fund 0601.
(Ord. 11-0014, passed 7-25-2011)
DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT FUNDS
§ 38.170 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Community Development Block Grant-
Recovery Fund 0295 for the purpose of accounting for the receipts and
disbursements of the CDBG-R Grants.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used in accordance with the
grant agreement.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the EC Redevelopment Board of Commissioners. Said fund shall be perpetual in
nature; however, should the Fund terminate for any lawful reason, any balance
of said Fund shall be disbursed in accordance with the grant agreement.
(Ord. 11-0037, passed 12-26-2011)
§ 38.171 EC REDEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established an EC Redevelopment Fund 0299 for the
purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the Redevelopment
Department’s other revenues and expenses.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used in accordance with the
Fund function activities.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the EC Redevelopment Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed in
accordance with the Fund function.
(Ord. 11-0037, passed 12-26-2011)
§ 38.172 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INCOME TAX FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established an Economic Development Income Tax Fund
0444 for the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the
city’s revenue received from the County Economic Development Income Tax.
   (B)   Receipts and disbursements of said Fund shall be governed by I.C. 6-
3.5-7 and shall be accounted for accordingly.
   (C)   The Executive may, at any time, transfer money deposited in such fund
to the General Fund or any other city fund. After appropriation of the money by
the Common Council in a budget or supplemental budget (as required by law), the
money transferred under this section may be used for the purposes of the Fund
to which the money is transferred, for purposes allowed by statute (I.C. 6-3.5-
7-12.7).
   (D)   The Executive may not transfer money if the amount transferred would
impair the city’s ability to satisfy any debts, liabilities, or obligations for
which county economic development income taxes are pledged or otherwise
encumbered.
   (E)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, all monies shall revert to the General Fund.
(Ord. 13-0040, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 38.173 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to Senate Enrolled Act No. 325, there is hereby established a
Local Development Agreement (LDA) Fund, for the purpose of accounting for the
receipts and disbursements of money received from a “Development Provider”
being the city’s gaming licensee.
   (B)   Monies contained in this Fund shall be deposited into a separate bank
account in an FDIC insured state bank within five days after its receipt from
the Development Provider.
   (C)   This fund will allow only expenditures according to the terms of the
Local Development Agreement, as approved by the State Gaming Commission, which
specifies the kind and type of expenditures that may be made from this Fund.
(Ord. 11-0014, passed 7-25-2011)
§ 38.174 REDEVELOPMENT BOND FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Redevelopment Bond Fund 0311 for the
purpose of accounting for receipts and disbursements of the Redevelopment Bond
activities.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for the payment of
Redevelopment Bond Fund obligations.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the EC Redevelopment Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed in
accordance with bond transcript.
(Ord. 11-0037, passed 12-26-2011)
§ 38.175 REDEVELOPMENT CAPITAL FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Redevelopment Capital Fund 0406 for the
purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the NWI Regional
Development Authority grant proceeds and other redevelopment improvements
revenues.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for the purposes described
in the grant agreement and as approved by the City Redevelopment Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the City Redevelopment Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed in
accordance with the grant agreement and as lawfully allowed.
(Ord. 14-0020, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 38.176 REDEVELOPMENT EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Redevelopment Education Fund 0296 for
the purpose of accounting for the receipts from property tax abatement imposed
fees, and disbursements for training and education purposes.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for worker training and
education purposes only.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the City Redevelopment Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed to
an economic development agency or government entity.
(Ord. 17-0033, passed 12-20-2017)
COUNCIL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FUNDS
§ 38.190 CASH RESERVE FUND.
   To ensure the receipt by the city of all allowable reimbursements there is
created the Cash Reserve Fund for the purpose of receiving and disbursing funds
and transfers from other agencies in lieu of taxes.
(Prior Code, § 43.170) (Ord. 3254, passed - -1980)
§ 38.191 CITY COUNCIL OFFICE EXPENSE FUND.
   (A)   The Council is authorized to establish as a line item in the budget
and may appropriate funds from the General Fund of the city to pay general
expenses of Common Council members for expenses including but not limited to
office supplies, equipment, phones and pagers, and continuing education.
   (B)   The appropriation adopted by the Common Council shall be equally
divided among the members of the Common Council for the expenses authorized
herein. The amount herein authorized shall be paid in equal monthly amounts to
each member of the Council.
   (C)   The payments shall be used for meeting expenses set forth herein and
no additional claims for councilmanic expenses shall be submitted to or honored
by the City Controller.
(Prior Code, § 43.235) (Ord. 0-99-0024, passed 12-3-1999)
§ 38.192 CITY COUNCIL PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   (A)   Created. The City Promotional Fund is established. The Common Council
is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the General Fund or from
other funds to pay the expenses incurred in promoting the betterment of the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 43.220)
   (B)   Expenditures. Expenditures from this Fund may include, but are not
necessarily limited to the following:
      (1)   Membership dues in local, regional, state, and national
associations of a civic, educational, or governmental nature, which have as
their purpose the betterment and improvement of municipal operations;
      (2)   Direct expenses for travel, meals, and lodging in conjunction with
municipal business or meetings or organizations to which the municipality
belongs;
      (3)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic, industrial, and
civic development for the municipality, including meeting room rental,
decorations, parades, floats, nominal gifts, meals, and travel;
      (4)   Commemorative plaques, certificates, or objects such as
commemorative keys;
      (5)   Other purposes which are deemed by the Mayor and/or the Common
Council to directly relate to promotion or betterment of the city; and
      (6)   Donations to not-for-profit organizations, church sponsored
secular, civic, or social activity or other civic or fraternal organizations,
where the donation is deemed to be of benefit to the citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, § 43.221)
   (C)   Expense authorization required. No expenses shall be allowed from this
Fund without prior authorization and approval by the Common Council and/or the
Council President. Claims for expenses under this section all will be allowed
as prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 43.222)
   (D)   Purposes. From and after January 1, 2012, all monies in a promotional
fund line item for any department, or for any elected official of the city,
only be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   Those purposes as permitted by I.C. 36-10-2-1 et seq. and 36-7-2-7.
         (a)   The first such use is summarized as follows: to establish, aid,
maintain, and operate libraries, museums, cultural, historical, and scientific
facilities and programs, community service facilities and programs,
neighborhood center, community centers, civic centers, convention centers,
auditorium, arenas, and stadiums.
         (b)   The second list is for city expenses related to economic
development and incidental expenses for related to the State of the City, Keys
to the City, Inaugural Address, sponsoring city floats in parades, memorial
gifts, and commemorative plaques shall be permitted as reasonable expenses for
city activities.
      (2)   Additionally, promotional funds may be used to pay the expenses of,
or to reimburse, city officials for expenses incurred in promoting the location
and/or expansion of economic development within the city. Such expenses may
include the rental of meeting places, meals, decorations, memorabilia, awards,
and expenses directly incurred in the promoting of industrial, commercial, or
residential development within the city. Such expenditures must be directly
related to the elected officials efforts to encourage developers to locate and/
or build within the city.
   (E)   Compliance. All departments and other elected officials of the city
should not use any monies in a promotional line item under the old ordinance
that has been repealed and that such funds shall only be used as outlined in
this section. That the purpose of this section is to place the city into
compliance with I.C. 36-10-2-1 et seq., I.C. 36-7-2-7, and the State Board of
Account’s Manual on the use of promotional monies.
(Ord. 3509, passed - -; Ord. 0-99-0024, passed 12-3-1999; Ord. 12-0007, passed
3-1-2012)
§ 38.193 CITY PROPERTY DAMAGE FUND.
   To ensure the maximum efficiency in the collection of monies due the city
for all damage to city property belonging to each and every executive
department of the city there is created a revolving fund to be known as the
Damage to City Property Fund for the receipt and disbursement of all funds
concerned with damage to city property.
(Prior Code, § 43.110) (Ord. 3254, passed - -1980)
§ 38.194 CIVIL CITY LEVY EXCESS FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant I.C. 6-1.1-18.5-17, there is hereby established a Civil City
Levy Excess Fund 0710 for the purpose of accounting for the receipt and
disbursements of the property taxes received which exceeds 100% of the taxing
unit’s ad valorem property tax levy.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used as provided by the
Department of Local Government Finance approval of the taxing unit’s budget.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the Common Council.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance in said Fund shall be disbursed as
determined by the Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 11-0014, passed 7-25-2011)
§ 38.195 CLERK’S RECORD PERPETUATION FUND.
   There is hereby established a Clerk’s Record Perpetuation Fund.
(Ord. 10-0014, passed 10-12-2010)
§ 38.196 COUNTY OPTION INCOME TAX PUBLIC SAFETY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a County Option Income Tax Public Safety
Fund for the purpose of accounting for the receipt and disbursements of revenue
received as its portion of the public safety rate contained in the County
Option Income Tax.
   (B)   The purposes for which expenditures may be made from such fund are
limited to those contained and described in I.C. 6-3.5-6-31(b).
   (C)   Said Fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, all monies shall revert to the General Fund.
(Ord. 13-0041, passed 1-13-2014)
§ 38.197 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH CHANGE FUND.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby established a nonreverting Change Fund for
the Department of Public and Environmental Health Division of Nursing for the
purpose of making change when collection of funds from the public for services
or records is necessary.
(Prior Code, § 43.280)
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Change Fund shall not exceed an amount as set by the city from
time to time.
      (2)   There is to be deposited in the Change Fund an initial deposit from
the city’s General Fund.
      (3)   This Fund shall continue in perpetuity, however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason any balance shall be transferred to the city’s
General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.281)
(Ord. 0-99-0029, passed 12-30-1999)
§ 38.198 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby established a nonreverting Petty Cash Fund
for the city’s Department of Public and Environmental Health only for emergency
purchases necessary to protect the health of the community or individual
citizens.
(Prior Code, § 43.265)
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Petty Cash Fund shall not exceed an amount as set by the city
from time to time.
      (2)   There is to be deposited in the Petty Cash Fund an initial deposit
from the city’s General Fund and replenishment of the Fund as necessary by
approved claims allowed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (3)   This Fund shall continue in perpetuity, however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason any balance shall be transferred to the city’s
General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.266)
(Ord. 0-99-0029, passed 12-30-1999)
§ 38.199 GOVERNMENT SERVICES COOPERATIVE FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a Government Services
Cooperative Fund for the purpose of accounting for the operations of the
Government Services Cooperative.
(Prior Code, § 43.325)
   (B)   Deposits. Monies deposited in the Fund shall be used for the
operations of the Government Services Cooperative.
(Prior Code, § 43.326)
   (C)   Expenditures. Monies from the Fund may be disbursed only on approved
claims allowed by the Governmental Services Cooperative Board of Directors.
(Prior Code, § 43.327)
   (D)   Termination of fund. The Fund shall be perpetual in nature; however,
should the Fund terminate for any lawful reason, any balance in the Fund shall
be disbursed in accordance with a mutual agreement between the civil city,
School City of East Chicago, and the public library.
(Prior Code, § 43.328)
(Ord. 0-01-0005, passed 3-1-2001)
§ 38.200 HEALTH INSURANCE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Health Insurance Fund 0751 for the
purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the health
insurance activities.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for the payment of health
insurance claims.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the Common Council;
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be transferred
to the Self-Insurance Fund 0504.
(Ord. 11-0037, passed 12-26-2011)
§ 38.201 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special revenue fund designated Fund 257
titled LOIT Special Distribution to receipt and account for the restricted
portion of the distribution received from the county as described above.
   (B)   Seventy-five percent of the funds deposited shall be restricted for
use for the city’s infrastructure needs.
   (C)   The unrestricted portion of the distribution may be deposited into the
General Fund, into a properly created home rule fund, or into the rainy day
fund if properly designated as a source.
   (D)   The distribution is expected to be a one-time event; however, in the
event that the Fund is terminated for any lawful reason before the monies are
spent, monies remaining shall revert to the General Fund.
(Ord. 16-0014, passed 10-24-2016)
§ 38.202 PROPERTY TAX CREDIT FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby created a nonreverting Property Tax
Credit Fund for the receipt of the property tax credit monies as determined by
the County Auditor’s office.
(Prior Code, § 43.535)
   (B)   Uses. The permissible uses of those funds, as established by Ord. 0-
06-0042 are:
      (1)   Issue refunds to eligible property owners who had paid their tax
bill prior to the adoption of Ord. 06-0042;
      (2)   Apply the tax credit to current property tax bill for eligible
property tax owners electing to do so; and
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-8-5, upon fulfillment of the purposes of the
Fund, any unused and unencumbered remaining balance shall be transferred to the
Fund upon which funding was originally drawn.
(Prior Code, § 43.536)
(Ord. 0-07-0003, passed 2-26-2007)
§ 38.203 SINKING FUND.
   (A)   Created; purpose. For the purpose of creating or continuing a sinking
fund for the gradual extinguishment of the bonded indebtedness of the city,
there is hereby created or continued the establishment of a Sinking Fund as
provided by I.C. 36-9-16.
(Prior Code, § 43.030)
   (B)   Commissioners.
      (1)   The Sinking Fund shall be under the control of three Commissioners
to be known as the Board of Sinking Fund Commissioners, of whom the City
Controller shall be one. Two others shall be appointed by the Mayor for the
terms of and in the manner provided by law.
      (2)   The Commissioners shall serve without compensation, pay, or other
remuneration for their services and the Controller shall act as Secretary of
the Commission without additional fee or salary.
(Prior Code, § 43.031)
§ 38.204 WORKER’S COMPENSATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Worker’s Compensation Fund 0753 for the
purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursement of the Worker’s
Compensation activities.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used for the payment of
worker’s compensation claims.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the Common Council. Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should
the Fund terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be
transferred to the Self-Insurance Fund 0504.
(Ord. 11-0037, passed 12-26-2011)
COMMUNITY FUNDS
§ 38.215 DIABETES AWARENESS FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a Diabetes Awareness Fund for
the purpose of accounting for the operations of the city diabetes awareness
program.
(Prior Code, § 43.385)
   (B)   Deposits. Monies deposited in the Fund shall be used for the
operations of the city diabetes awareness program.
(Prior Code, § 43.386)
   (C)   Expenditures. Monies from the Fund may be disbursed only on approved
claims allowed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 43.387)
   (D)   Termination of funds. The Fund shall be perpetual in nature; however,
should the Fund terminate for any lawful reason, any balance in the Fund shall
be disbursed to civil city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.388)
(Ord. 0-01-0011, passed 4-11-2001)
§ 38.216 HARBORSIDE APARTMENTS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Harborside Apartments Fund 0298 for the
purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the operation and
maintenance of the Harborside Apartments.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used in accordance with the
operation and maintenance agreement of the Harborside Apartments.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the EC Redevelopment Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed as
lawfully allowed.
(Ord. 12-0031, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 38.217 HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Home Investment Partnership Program Fund
0297 for the purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the
Home Investment Partnership Program Grants.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used in accordance with the
grant agreement.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the EC Redevelopment Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed in
accordance with the grant agreement.
(Ord. 11-0037, passed 12-26-2011)
§ 38.218 HOMELESS PREVENTION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Homeless Prevention Fund 0293 for the
purpose of accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the Homeless
Prevention and Rapid Rehousing Program Grants.
   (B)   Monies deposited in said Fund shall be used in accordance with the
grant agreement.
   (C)   Monies from said Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the EC Redevelopment Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Said fund shall be perpetual in nature; however, should the Fund
terminate for any lawful reason, any balance of said Fund shall be disbursed in
accordance with the grant agreement.
(Ord. 11-0037, passed 12-26-2011)
§ 38.219 LOCAL ROAD AND BRIDGE MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special revenue fund designated Fund
titled “Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund” to receipt and account for
grants from the INDOT Community Crossing Grant Award.
   (B)   Matching money for grants under that program shall come from the
Special LOIT Distribution Fund 257, the Restricted Rainy Day Fund 261, any
existing Rainy Day Fund, and any local funds which may be used for roads and
bridges, which shall also be deposited in the Fund created herein to be used to
pay for eligible public works projects.
   (C)   The grant awards are expected to occur annually; however, in the event
that the Fund so created is terminated for any lawful reason before the monies
are spent, monies remaining shall revert to the General Fund.
(Ord. 17-0018, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 38.220 RAILROAD RELOCATION FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a Railroad Relocation Fund
for the purpose of accounting for the operations of the relocation of railroads
and related activities.
(Prior Code, § 43.415)
   (B)   Deposits. Monies deposited in the Fund shall be used for the
operations of the relocation of railroads and related activities.
(Prior Code, § 43.416)
   (C)   Expenditures. Monies from the Fund may be disbursed only on approved
claims allowed by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 43.417)
   (D)   Termination of fund. The Fund shall be perpetual in nature; however,
should the Fund terminate for any lawful reason, any balance in the Fund shall
be disbursed to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 43.418)
(Ord. 0-01-0050, passed 12-28-2001)
§ 38.221 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Fund 0176 - ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund be established
immediately and that allocations from the state specific to the Coronavirus
Local Fiscal Recovery Fund only will be receipted to this dedicated grant fund.
   (B)   The monies may only be used for items represented in § 603(c) as
following: subject to paragraph (2), and except as provided in paragraphs (3)
and (4), a metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local government, or
county shall only use the funds provided under a payment made under this
section to cover costs incurred by the metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit
of local government, or county, by December 31, 2024:
      (1)   To respond to the public health emergency with respect to the
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) or its negative economic impacts, including
assistance to households, small businesses, and non-profits, or aid to impacted
industries such as tourism, travel, and hospitality;
      (2)   To respond to workers performing essential work during the COVID-19
public health emergency by providing premium pay to eligible workers of the
metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local government, or county that are
performing such essential work, or by providing grants to eligible employers
that have eligible workers who perform essential work;
      (3)   For the provision of government services to the extent of the
reduction in revenue of such metropolitan city, nonentitlement unit of local
government, or county due to the COVID-19 public health emergency relative to
revenues collected in the most recent full fiscal year of the metropolitan
city, nonentitlement unit of local government, or county prior to the
emergency; or
      (4)   To make necessary investments in water, sewer, or broadband
infrastructure.
   (C)   Further, the funds may only be used as locally appropriated by the
Common Council and must reference in each case the portion of Section 603(c)
that is applicable and the portion of the City Fiscal Recovery Plan which has
been recommended by the FRC and approved by the Common Council by ordinance.
Said plan may be revised by the FRC but amendments must also be approved by the
Common Council by ordinance.
   (D)   In no case will any funds be deemed validly appropriated until the
Fiscal Recovery Plan has been approved first by the FRC, then by valid
ordinance of the Common Council in addition to the normal required
appropriation by Council on the Mayor’s recommendation.
(Ord. 21-0031, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 38.222 HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS - AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN (HOME-ARP) FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the HOME-ARP Fund 2407 for the purpose of
accounting for the receipts and disbursements of the HOME-ARP Grant.
   (B)   The money received under this section shall be used pursuant to the
terms and conditions set forth in the grant agreement.
   (C)   Monies from the Fund may be disbursed only on approved claims allowed
by the city’s Redevelopment Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   The Fund shall terminate for any lawful reason and any balance of the
Fund shall be disbursed pursuant to the grant agreement.
(Ord. 23-0034, passed 10-11-2023)
CHAPTER 39: GENERAL MUNICIPAL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
39.001   Disposal of city property
   
39.002   Records and reports
   
39.003   Credit cards used for official city business
   
39.004   Office hours
Smoke-Free Environment on or in Municipal Property
   
39.020   Definitions
   
39.021   Prohibition of smoking in public buildings and city vehicles
   
39.022   Posting of signs
   
39.023   Nonretaliation clause
   
39.024   More restrictive actions
Personnel Policies
   
39.035   Personnel rules and practices; adopted by reference
   
39.036   Substance abuse policy and testing program; adopted by reference
   
39.037   Collective bargaining rights
Immigrants and Public Safety
   
39.050   Purpose and intent
   
39.051   Definitions
   
39.052   Requesting information
   
39.053   Conditioning benefits, services, or opportunities on immigrant status
   
39.054   Threats based on citizenship or immigration status
   
39.055   Immigration enforcement actions; federal responsibility
   
39.056   Certifications for victims of certain criminal activity
   
39.057   Federal registry program
   
39.058   Commitments
   
39.059   Information regarding citizenship or immigration status
   
39.060   Severability
 
   
39.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.001 DISPOSAL OF CITY PROPERTY.
   No real or personal property owned by or in the name of the city or any
department or agency thereof may be sold, exchanged, transferred, or leased
until the sale, exchange, transfer, or lease has been approved by the Common
Council. The approval shall be set forth in a resolution duly adopted by the
Common Council at a regular or special meeting. The approval required herein is
in addition to the approval of the Common Council required by I.C. 36-1-11-3
(c).
(Prior Code, § 42.01) (Ord. 3563, passed - -1992) Penalty, see § 42.999
§ 39.002 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   A fee schedule for the certification, copying, or facsimile
transmission of documents defined by I.C. 5-14-3-8 is established.
      (2)   The fee for copying those records shall be an amount as set by the
city from time to time.
   (B)   If a person is entitled to a copy of a public record under this
section and the department in the city which is in possession of the record has
reasonable access to machine capable of reproducing the record, then the city
department must provide at least one copy of the public record to the person.
However, if the city department does not have reasonable access to a machine
capable of reproducing the record or if the person cannot reproduce the record
by use of enhanced access under I.C. 5-14–3-3.5, the person is only entitled to
inspect and manually transcribe the record. A city department may require that
the payment of copying fees be made in advance.
   (C)   In providing a duplicate of a computer tape, computer disk, microfilm,
or similar analogous record system containing information owned by the city
department or entrusted to it, the city department may charge a fee, uniform to
all purchasers, that does not exceed the sum of the following:
      (1)   The city department’s direct cost of supplying the information in
that form; or
      (2)   The standard cost for selling the same information to the public in
the form of a publication if the department has published the information and
made the publication available for sale.
   (D)   (1)   The following fee schedule is established for the Police
Department. These amount are subject to change, as they are set by the city
from time to time.
Archived reports     $15 ($25 non-resident)
Arrest reports       $10 ($15 non-resident)
City-wide copy fee   $0.10 per page
Crash reports        $15 ($25 non-resident)
Criminal history     $25 ($35 non-resident)
Fingerprinting       $10 ($20 non-resident)
Incident reports     $10 ($15 non-resident)
Industrial VIN check $100
Supplement reports   $10 ($15 non-resident)
Tow release          $20 ($30 non-resident)
VIN check            $10 ($20 non-resident)
 
      (2)   The following fee schedule is established for licenses.
License Type Local Fee State Fee
License Type                                         Local Fee       State Fee
4 year hunting/target                                $20/            $30
                                                     $10 refundable*
4 year personal protection                           $20/            $30
                                                     $10 refundable*
Lifetime hunting/target (current valid license)      $40/            $20
                                                     $20 refundable*
Lifetime hunting/target (no current license)         $50/            $25
                                                     $30 refundable*
Lifetime personal protection (current valid license) $50/            $60
                                                     $40 refundable*
Lifetime personal protection (no current license)    $60/            $75
                                                     $40 refundable*
Note to table:
*A portion of the local fee is refundable if a license is not issued
The entire state fee is refundable if a license is not issued
 
      (3)   The fees so collected in divisions (D)(1) and (D)(2) above shall be
remitted to the City Controller no less frequently than once a week for deposit
into the appropriate fund.
(Prior Code, § 42.02) (Ord. 0-00-0017, passed 6-15-2000; Ord. 0-05-0030, passed
9-26-2005; Ord. 0-06-0038, passed 9-25-2006; Ord. 12-0013, passed 4-9-2012;
Ord. 12-0018, passed 6-15-2012) Penalty, see § 42.999
§ 39.003 CREDIT CARDS USED FOR OFFICIAL CITY BUSINESS.
   (A)   The use of credit cards by city personnel is hereby authorized,
provided the use is in accordance with the provisions set forth herein.
   (B)   The City Controller is hereby authorized to obtain credit cards in the
name of the city for use by the Mayor for expenses relating to official city
business.
   (C)   (1)   The City Controller is hereby authorized to obtain or authorize
the obtaining of credit cards bearing the name of the city for use by city
officials designated by the Mayor.
      (2)   Credit cards authorized by this section shall be obtained in the
name of the individual city official who shall be financially responsible for
all credit card charges.
      (3)   The credit card charges shall not be a liability of the city.
      (4)   The credit cards shall be provided to obtain government discounts
when used on city business.
   (D)   (1)   The City Controller is hereby authorized credit cards where
credit cards will expedite or facilitate the conducting of city business.
      (2)   Credit cards obtained under this section shall be under the control
of the Office of City Controller and may be used by city employees for city
business.
      (3)   The City Controller or his or her designee shall maintain a log of
credit card use which shall include the name of individuals using the card,
their position, the estimated amounts to be charged, fund and account numbers
to be charged, the date the card is issued and returned, and other information
deemed necessary to properly account for credit card use.
      (4)   When the purpose for which the credit card has been issued has been
accomplished the card must be returned to the City Controller or his or her
designee.
   (E)   The credit cards authorized by this section shall be used for:
      (1)   Travel on matters of city business;
      (2)   For allowable expenses incurred by the Mayor for the promotion of
the city;
      (3)   For making of telephone calls by city officials for official city
business;
      (4)   For purposes of obtaining materials, parts, supplies, or services
that must be obtained on an immediate or emergency basis; or
      (5)   Other matters relating to city business authorized by the Mayor.
   (F)   Credit cards authorized by this section shall not be used to bypass or
circumvent the purchase order system. Whenever possible a purchase order shall
be used for public purchases and credit cards authorized by this section shall
be used only when the issuance of a purchase order is not reasonably possible.
   (G)   (1)   When credit cards authorized by division (C) above are used for
reimbursable expenses, payment shall not be made on the basis of only a credit
card statement or credit card slip.
      (2)   Supporting documentation such as paid bills and receipts must be
submitted in support for the claim for payment. Pursuant to the State Board of
Accounts requirements, claims for reimbursement for meals and expenses for
individuals must have specific detailed information of the names of all
individuals for which amounts are claimed, including the nature, name, and
purpose of business meeting or expense.
      (3)   Payments which do not have the proper itemization may be the
personal obligation of the responsible official or employee for whom the claim
is made.
   (H)   The City Controller is hereby authorized to obtain credit cards
authorized by this section. The City Controller is hereby authorized to sign
and execute in the name of the city any documents or agreements necessary to
obtain the credit cards and is authorized to pay any fees or other expenses
necessary to obtain or use the credit cards.
   (I)   The City Controller is hereby authorized to promulgate and impose any
additional regulations or controls regarding the use of credit cards authorized
herein under where regulations or controls are necessary or required by law or
are necessary for the proper and efficient financial management of the city.
(Prior Code, § 42.03) (Ord. 0-01-0044, passed 12-10-2001)
§ 39.004 OFFICE HOURS.
   (A)   The several department heads shall have the power to require any
office in the executive departments to remain open or closed, when they think
the public interest requires it, subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (B)   Municipal activities requiring continuous service, such as police and
fire forces, waterworks, and pumping stations, shall not be interrupted.
(Prior Code, § 38.01)
SMOKE-FREE ENVIRONMENT ON OR IN MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 39.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of East Chicago, Indiana.
   CITY VEHICLES. Any municipally owned or leased device designed for the
purpose of carrying passengers, goods, or equipment (such as cars, trucks,
vans, buses, and the like).
   PUBLIC BUILDING. An enclosed structure or part of an enclosed structure that
is owned, leased, or occupied by the city or any of its agencies.
   SMOKING. The carrying or holding of a lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe, or any
other lighted smoking equipment, or the inhalation or exhalation of smoke from
any lighted environment.
(Prior Code, § 42.15) (Ord. 0-05-0013, passed 7-25-2005)
§ 39.021 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND CITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Smoking shall be prohibited in all public buildings. Smoking shall be
prohibited in all city vehicles (whether owned or leased), simultaneously
occupied by two or more persons.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to all areas in those buildings and
vehicles, whether used place of employment or as a place for the conduct of
public business.
(Prior Code, § 42.16) (Ord. 0-05-0013, passed 7-25-2005) Penalty, see § 42.999
§ 39.022 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Engineer shall clearly post conspicuous signs at all
entrances to each public building that read: “Smoking in this building is
prohibited by Indiana State Law 16-41-37 and City of East Chicago Ordinance 05-
0012.”
      (2)   The international “no smoking” symbol shall also be affixed atop
each sign and lettering for the aforementioned signs shall be at least one-half
inch in height.
   (B)   Where indicated, the Vehicle Maintenance Director shall clearly post
conspicuous signs in all city vehicles that read: “Smoking in this vehicle is
prohibited by Indiana State Law 16-41-37 and City of East Chicago Ordinance 05-
0012.” The international “no smoking” symbol shall also be affixed atop each
sign and lettering for these signs must be at least one-half inch in height.
   (C)   As part of this section, all ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia
shall be removed from any area in a public building where smoking is prohibited
by this subchapter, and appropriate smoking receptacles shall be placed
outdoors to accommodate those employees and members of the public who wish to
smoke.
(Prior Code, § 42.17) (Ord. 0-05-0013, passed 7-25-2005) Penalty, see § 42.999
§ 39.023 NONRETALIATION CLAUSE.
   No person shall discharge, or in any manner retaliate against an employee
because that employee exercised his or her proper rights in accordance with the
terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 42.18) (Ord. 0-05-0013, passed 7-25-2005) Penalty, see § 42.999
§ 39.024 MORE RESTRICTIVE ACTIONS.
   This subchapter does not prohibit any municipal department from adopting any
action that is more restrictive than the terms set out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 42.19) (Ord. 0-05-0013, passed 7-25-2005)
PERSONNEL POLICIES
§ 39.035 PERSONNEL RULES AND PRACTICES; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The revised comprehensive personnel rules and practices, copies of which are
on file in the office of the City Clerk, is adopted and incorporated as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 41.01) (Ord. 0-99-0024, passed 12-3-1999; Ord. 0-01-0006, passed
3-1-2001; Ord. 0-01-0032, passed 11-27-2001; Ord. 0-02-0010, passed 5-13-2002;
Ord. 0-02-0011, passed - -2002; Ord. 0-02-0023, passed - -2002; Ord. 0-02-0026,
passed - -2002; Ord. 0-03-0014, passed 3-10-2003; Ord. 0-03-0021, passed - -
2003; Ord. 0-03-0026, passed - -2003; Ord. 0-03-0035, passed - -2003; Ord. 0-
04-0003, passed 2-9-2003; Ord. 0-04-0052, passed 12-16-2004; Ord. 0-06-0005,
passed 3-13-2006; Ord. 0-08-0013, passed 5-12-2008; Ord. 0-08-0035, passed 1-
12-2009; Ord. 12-0005, passed 4-9-2012; Ord. 12-0038, passed 12-26-2012; 13-
0037, passed 12-23-2013; Ord. 15-0029, passed 12-21-2015; Ord. 16-0005, passed
7-11-2016; Ord. 20-0003, passed 4-27-2020; Ord. 21-0077, passed 10-13-2021)
§ 39.036 SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICY AND TESTING PROGRAM; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   An amended Substance Abuse Policy and Testing Program Employee Handbook of
the city is now established and adopted and incorporated as part of this code
of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 11-0023, passed 9-26-2011)
§ 39.037 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING RIGHTS.
   (A)   Duty to bargaining collectively. Whenever the city or any of its
agencies, divisions, or departments (hereafter “the employer”), has recognized
a labor organization as the exclusive bargaining representative of a unit of
city employees, the city has a continuing duty to bargain collectively with
such organization. This duty to bargain collectively means:
      (1)   The obligation of the employer and labor and labor organization to
meet at reasonable times and confer in good faith with respect to wages, hours,
and other terms and conditions of employment, and the execution of a written
contract incorporating any agreement reached, but such obligation does not
compel either party to agree to a proposal or require the making of a
concession, expect as provided in division (C) below; and
      (2)   Where a collective bargaining contract is in effect, the duty to
bargain collectively also means that no party shall modify such contract,
unless the party desiring such modification:
         (a)   Serves written notice upon the other party of the proposed
modification 60 days prior to the expiration date thereof, or if the contract
has no expiration date, 60 days prior to the time it is proposed to make such
modification;
         (b)   Offers to meet and confer with the other party for the purpose
of negotiating a new contract or a contract containing the proposed
modifications; and
         (c)   Continues in full force and effect all the terms and conditions
of the existing contract until a new contract is mutually agreed upon or a new
contract is settled in accordance with division (C) below.
   (B)   Enforcement of the duty to bargain collectively.
      (1)   If the employer or a labor organization believes the other has
violated division (A) above, either may provide the other with a written
complaint describing the conduct alleged to be the violation(s) and the remedy
sought within ten days after receipt of such complaint, the non-complaining
party shall provide a written response.
      (2)   If the complaint is not resolved within ten days after submission
of the above response, the complaining party may have a neutral arbitrator
adjudicate the complaint and craft an appropriate remedy by sending a written
demand for arbitration to the non-complaining party along with a list of seven
arbitrators obtained from the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
(“FMCS”).
      (3)   (a)   The parties shall select the neutral arbitrator by
alternatively striking names from the list until only one remains with the non-
complaining party striking first.
         (b)   If the parties fail to select an arbitrator within ten days of
the non-complaining party’s receipt of the list, the parties are deemed to have
mutually requested that FMCS appoint an arbitrator, and the complaining party
may so certify to the FMCS.
      (4)   The arbitrator shall conduct a hearing on the complaint on a date
and at a location agreed upon by the parties. If the parties fail to agree, the
arbitrator shall set the date and location no later than 90 days from his/her
receipt of notice of selection by FMCS.
      (5)   The arbitrator shall conduct the hearing in accordance with the
parties’ agreement. Absent agreement, there shall be no discovery and neither
the State Rules of Trial Procedure nor the State Rules of Evidence shall be
applied. The arbitrator shall issue a written award within ten days of the
close of the hearing setting forth the violations found, if any, and the
remedy.
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, the arbitration shall
be conducted, the duty to arbitrate shall be enforceable, and the arbitrator’s
award shall be enforceable, under the State Arbitration Act, I.C. 34-57-2-10 et
seq.
      (7)   The arbitrator’s fees and room rental fees, if any, shall be borne
by the losing party, but the parties shall otherwise bear their own costs.
   (C)   Prohibition against strikes and lock outs; impasse procedures.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any employee or employee organization to take
part in, assist, or advocate a strike against the employer. The employer may in
an action at law or equity, or other proper proceeding, take action against any
employee organization, or any person aiding or abetting in a strike, to redress
such unlawful act. The employer shall not pay an employee for any day he/she
fails to report to work as a result of a strike. The employer shall not lock
out its employees.
      (2)   In lieu of strikes, impasses in collective bargaining negotiations
shall be resolved as follows:
         (a)   Thirty days after the start of collective bargaining
negotiations required by division (A) above. Either party may request mediation
by a mediator appointed by the FMCS. The mediator, if mutually agreed upon, may
facilitate a resolution of the disputed issues, but shall not have binding
authority to resolve such dispute.
         (b)   Thirty days after the request for mediation, but only after such
request, either party may declare an impasse in collective bargaining
negotiations by sending notice to the other, which notice shall identify each
issue on which there is impasse and setting forth that party’s final position
or offer on each such issue. Within ten days of receipt of such declaration,
the other party shall provide written response setting forth its final position
or offer on each such issue, and identifying any other issues it believes to be
in dispute or unresolved, and its final position or offer on each such issue.
         (c)   If the disputed or unresolved issues are not resolved within 30
days of the response submitted under division (C)(2)(b) above, either party may
invoke arbitration under division (B) above, except that before or at the
commencement of the hearing, the arbitrator shall ascertain the final position
or offer of each party on all issues identified as being in dispute or
unresolved, After the hearing, the arbitrator’s award shall adopt only the
final position or offer of either party on each issue in dispute or that is
unresolved, and he/she shall not craft a different term for the contract.
Whichever position or offer the arbitrator adopts shall constitute that part of
the collective bargaining contract on the issue and, upon issuance of the
award, the collective bargaining contract shall be deemed concluded in all
respects.
(Ord. 22-0004, passed 2-23-2022)
IMMIGRANTS AND PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 39.050 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of the city to recognize the present and
historic importance of immigrants to our community and to further demonstrate
the city’s commitment to ensure public safety for all city residents and
specifically enable immigrants to report crimes. Additionally, it is the intent
of the city to support immigration enforcement as a federal matter. The city is
committed to upholding the Constitution, including the Fourth Amendment
requirements of probable cause for arrest and detention and the Tenth Amendment
bar on commandeering of local governments to perform federal functions.
(Ord. 17-0010, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 39.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE WARRANT. An immigration warrant of arrest, order to detain or
release aliens, notice of custody determination, notice to appear, removal
order, warrant of removal, or any other document issued by ICE that can form
the basis for an individual’s arrest or detention for a civil Immigration
enforcement purpose. This definition does not include any criminal warrants
issued upon a judicial determination of probable cause and in compliance with
the requirements of the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution and
the State Constitution.
   AGENCY. Every municipal department, agency, division, commission, council,
committee, board, other body, or person established by authority of an
ordinance, executive order, or City Council order.
   AGENT. Any person employed by or acting on behalf of an agency.
   CERTIFICATION. Any law enforcement certification or statement required by
federal immigration law including, but not limited to, the information required
by U.S.C. Title 8 § 1184(p) (including current United States Citizenship and
Immigration Service Form I-918, Supplement B, or any successor forms) for
purposes of obtaining a U visa, or by U.S.C. Title 8 § 1184(o) (including
current United States Citizenship and Immigration Service Form I-914,
Supplement B, or any successor forms) for purposes of obtaining a T visa.
   CERTIFYING AGENCY. A municipal law enforcement agency or other authority
that has responsibility for the investigation or prosecution of criminal
activity. CERTIFYING AGENCY includes any agency that has criminal investigative
jurisdiction in its respective areas of expertise.
   CITIZENSHIP OR IMMIGRATION STATUS. All matters regarding questions of
citizenship of the United States or any other country, the authority to reside
in or otherwise be present in the United States, the time and manner of a
person’s entry into the United States, or any other immigration matter enforced
by the Department of Homeland Security or successor or other federal agency
charged with the enforcement of civil immigration laws.
   COERCE. To use express or implied threats towards a person or any family
member of a person that attempts to put that person in immediate fear of the
consequences in order to compel that person to act against his or her will.
   CONTACT INFORMATION. Home address, work address, telephone number,
electronic mail address, social media contact information, or any other means
of contacting an individual.
   ELIGIBLE FOR RELEASE FROM CUSTODY. The person may be released from custody
because one of the following conditions has occurred:
      (1)   All criminal charges against the person have been dropped or
dismissed;
      (2)   The person has been acquitted of all criminal charges filed against
him or her;
      (3)   The person has served all the time required for his or her
sentence;
      (4)   The person has posted a bond; and/or
      (5)   The person is otherwise eligible for release under state or local
law, or local policy.
   FAMILY MEMBER. A person’s:
      (1)   Mother, father, spouse, brother or sister (including blood, step,
or half), son or daughter (including blood, step, or half), father-in-law,
mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,
grandparent, or grandchild;
      (2)   Court-appointed legal guardian or a person for whom the person is a
court-appointed legal guardian; or
      (3)   Domestic partner or the domestic partner’s mother, father, brother,
sister (including blood, step, or half), son or daughter (including blood,
step, or half).
   ICE. The United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency and shall
include any successor agency charged with the enforcement of civil immigration
laws.
   IMMIGRATION DETAINER. A request by ICE to a federal, state, or local law
enforcement agency that requests that the law enforcement agency provide notice
of release or maintain custody of an individual based on an alleged violation
of a civil immigration law, including detainers issued pursuant to U.S.C. Title
8 §§ 1226 or 1357 or C.F.R. Title 8 § 287.7 or 236.1.
   IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT OPERATION. Any operation that has as one of its
objectives the identification or apprehension of a person or persons:
      (1)   In order to subject them to civil immigration detention, removal
proceedings, and removal from the United States; or
      (2)   To criminally prosecute a person or person for offenses related to
immigration status, including but not limited to violations of U.S.C. Title 8
§§ 1253, 1304, 1306(a), and (b), 1325, or 1326.
   QUALIFYING CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any activity involving one or more of the
following or any similar activity in violation of federal, state, or local
criminal law: rape; torture; trafficking; incest; domestic violence; sexual
assault; abusive sexual contact; prostitution; sexual exploitation; female
genital mutilation; being held hostage; peonage; involuntary servitude; slave
trade; kidnapping; abduction; unlawful criminal restraint; false imprisonment;
blackmail; extortion; manslaughter; murder, felonious assault; witness
tampering; obstruction of justice; perjury; fraud in foreign labor contracting
(as defined in U.S.C. Title 18 § 1351); or attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation
to commit any of the above mentioned crimes. This list of qualifying criminal
activity is not a list of specific statutory violations, but instead a list of
general categories of criminal activity. Activity not listed in the first
sentence of this definition shall be presumed to be qualifying criminal
activity when there is an articulable similarity to any qualifying criminal
activity listed herein. QUALIFYING CRIMINAL ACTIVITY that occurs during the
commission of nonqualifying criminal activity shall be considered qualifying
criminal activity regardless of whether criminal prosecution was sought for the
qualifying criminal activity.
   VERBAL ABUSE. The use of a remark which is overtly insulting, mocking, or
belittling directed at a person based upon the actual or perceived:
      (1)   Race, color, sex, religion, nation origin, English proficiency,
sexual orientation, or gender identity of that person; or
      (2)   Citizenship or immigration status of that person or that person’s
family member.
   VICTIM OF QUALIFYING CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any individual who has reported
qualifying criminal activity to a law enforcement agency or certifying agency,
or has otherwise participated in the detection, investigation, or prosecution
of qualifying criminal activity, who has suffered direct or proximate harm as a
result of the commission of any qualifying criminal activity and may include,
but is not limited to, an indirect victim, regardless of the direct victim’s
immigration or citizenship status, including the spouse, children under 21
years of age, and, if the direct victim is under 21 years of age, deceased,
incompetent, or incapacitated, parents and unmarried siblings under 18 years of
age of the direct victim.
      (1)   A bystander victim may also be considered as a VICTIM OF QUALIFYING
CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. More than one victim may be identified and provided with
certification depending upon the circumstances. A VICTIM OF QUALIFYING CRIMINAL
ACTIVITY may also include a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons
as defined in U.S.C. Title 22 § 7102.
      (2)   For purposes of this definition, the term INCAPACITATED means
unable to interact with law enforcement agency or certifying agency personnel
as a result of a cognitive impairment or other physical limitation, or because
of physical restraint or disappearance.
(Ord. 17-0010, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 39.052 REQUESTING INFORMATION.
   (A)   No agent or agency shall request information about or otherwise
investigate or assist in the investigation of the citizenship or immigration
status of any person unless such inquiry or investigation is required by an
order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notwithstanding this provision, the Corporation Counsel may
investigate and inquire about citizenship or immigration status when relevant
to potential or actual litigation or an administrative proceeding in which the
city is or may be a party.
(Ord. 17-0010, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 39.053 CONDITIONING BENEFITS, SERVICES, OR OPPORTUNITIES ON IMMIGRANT STATUS.
   (A)   No agent or agency shall withhold any municipal benefits, services, or
opportunities on matters related to citizenship or immigration status unless
required to do so by state or federal law, or court order.
   (B)   Where presentation of any driver’s license, including an international
driver’s license, or identification card is accepted as adequate evidence of
identity, presentation of a photo identity document issued by the person’s
nation of origin, such as a driver’s license, passport, or consular
identification document, shall be accepted and shall not subject the person to
a higher level of scrutiny or different treatment than if that person had
provided a state driver’s license or identification card except that this
division (B) shall not apply to the completion of the federally mandated I-
9 forms.
   (C)   In order to ensure that eligible persons are not deterred from seeking
municipal benefits, services, or opportunities, all agencies shall review their
confidentiality policies and identify any changes necessary to ensure that all
information collected from individuals is limited to that necessary to perform
agency duties and is not used or disclosed for any other purpose. Any necessary
changes to those policies shall be made as expeditiously, as possible,
consistent with agency procedures.
   (D)   All applications, questionnaires, and interview forms used in relation
to municipal benefits, opportunities, or services shall be promptly reviewed by
the pertinent agencies and any questions regarding citizenship or immigration
status, other than those required by statute, ordinance, federal law, or court
order, shall be deleted within 60 days of the passage of this subchapter.
(Ord. 17-0010, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 39.054 THREATS BASED ON CITIZENSHIP OR IMMIGRATION STATUS.
   No agent or agency shall do any of the following:
   (A)   Coerce any person based upon the person’s actual or perceived
citizenship or immigration status or the actual or perceived citizenship or
immigration status of the person’s family member;
   (B)   Communicate a threat to deport that person or any family member of
that person under circumstances that reasonably tend to produce a fear that the
threat will be carried out; or
   (C)   Otherwise subject a person to verbal abuse as defined by this chapter.
(Ord. 17-0010, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 39.055 IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS; FEDERAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No agency or agent shall stop, arrest, detain, or continue to detain a
person after that person becomes eligible for release from custody or is free
to leave an encounter with an agent or agency, based on any of the following:
      (1)   An immigration detainer;
      (2)   An administrative warrant (including but not limited to entered
into the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s National Crime Information Center
database); or
      (3)   Any other basis that is based solely on the belief that the person
is not present legally in the United States, or that the person has committed a
civil immigration violation.
   (B)   (1)   No agency or agent shall be permitted to accept requests by ICE
or other agencies to support or assist in any capacity with immigration
enforcement operations, including, but not limited to requests to provide
information on persons who may be the subject of immigration enforcement
operations (except as may be required under §
39.059), to establish traffic perimeters, or to otherwise be present to assist
or support an operation.
      (2)   In the event an agent receives a request to support or assist in an
immigration enforcement operation he or she shall report the request to his or
her supervisor, who shall decline the request and document the declination in
an interoffice memorandum to the agency director through the chain of command.
   (C)   No agency or agent shall enter into an agreement under U.S.C. Title 8
§ 1357(g) or any other federal law that permits state or local government
entities to enforce federal civil immigration laws.
   (D)   Unless presented with a valid and properly issued criminal warrant, no
agency or agent shall:
      (1)   Permit ICE agents access to a person being detained by, or in the
custody of, the agency or agent;
      (2)   Transfer any person into ICE custody;
      (3)   Permit ICE agents use of agency facilities, information (except as
may be required under §
39.059), or equipment, including any agency electronic databases, for
investigative interviews or other investigative purpose or for purposes of
executing an immigration enforcement operation; or
      (4)   Expend the time of the agency or agent in responding to ICE
inquiries or communicating with ICE regarding a person’s custody status,
release date, or contact information.
(Ord. 17-0010, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 39.056 CERTIFICATIONS FOR VICTIMS OF CERTAIN CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   A certifying agency shall execute any certification requested by any
victim of qualifying criminal activity or representative of the victim
including, but not limited to, the victim’s attorney, accredited
representative, or domestic violence service provider, within 90 days of
receiving the request. If the victim seeking certification is in the federal
immigration removal proceedings, the certifying agency shall execute the
certification no later than 14 days after the request in received by the
agency. If the victim or the victim’s children would lose any benefits under
U.S.C. Title 8 §§ 1184(p) and 1184(o) by virtue of having reached the age of 21
years within 90 days after the certifying agency receives the certification
request, the certifying agency shall execute the certification no later than 14
days before the date on which the victim or child would reach the age of 21
years. Requests for expedited certification must be affirmatively raised by the
victim.
   (B)   If a certifying agency fails to certify within the time limit
prescribed in division (A) above, or a victim of qualifying criminal activity
disputes the content of a certification, then the victim of qualifying criminal
activity may bring an action in circuit court to seek certification or amend
the certification. The court shall award court costs and reasonable attorneys’
fees to any person who brings a proceeding brought pursuant to this subsection
who prevails.
   (C)   The head of each certifying agency shall perform, or designate an
agent, who performs a supervisory role within the agency, to perform the
following responsibilities:
      (1)   Responds to requests for certifications;
      (2)   Provide outreach to victims of qualifying criminal activity to
inform them of the agency’s certification process; and
      (3)   Keep written records of all certification requests and responses.
   (D)   All certifying agencies shall implement a language access protocol for
non-English speaking victims of qualifying criminal activity.
   (E)   A certifying agency shall reissue any certification within 90 days of
receiving a request from the victim of qualifying criminal activity or
representative of the victim including, but not limited to, the victim’s
attorney, accredited representative, or domestic violence service provider.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a certifying
agency’s completion of a certification shall not be considered conclusory
evidence that the victim has met eligibility requirements for a U or T visa and
completion of a certification by a certifying agency shall not be construed to
guarantee that a victim will receive federal immigration relief. It is the
exclusive responsibility of federal immigration officials to determine whether
a victim of qualifying criminal activity is eligible for a U or T visa.
Completion of a certification by a certifying agency merely verifies factual
information relevant to the immigration benefit sought including information
relevant for federal immigration officials to determine eligibility for a U or
T visa. By completing a certification, the certifying agency attests that the
information is true and correct to the best of the certifying official’s
knowledge. If after completion of a certification, the victim unreasonably
refuses to assist in the investigation or prosecution of the qualifying
criminal activity of which he or she is a victim, then the certifying agency
may notify the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service in writing.
(Ord. 17-0010, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 39.057 FEDERAL REGISTRY PROGRAM.
   No agency or agent shall expend anytime, facilities, equipment, information,
or other resources of the agency or agent to facilitate the creation,
publication, or maintenance of any federal program to register individuals
present in the United States based on their race, color, ancestry, national
origin, or religion, or the participation of any residents of the municipality
in such a registry.
(Ord. 17-0010, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 39.058 COMMITMENTS.
   (A)   The city commits to working with community advocates, policy experts,
and legal advocates to defend the human rights of immigrants.
   (B)   The City Police Department will continue to respond to requests from
immigrant communities to defend them against all crimes, including hate crimes,
to assist people with limited language proficiency and to connect immigrants
with social services.
   (C)   (1)   The city recognizes the arrest of an individual increases that
individual’s risk of deportation even in cases where the individual is found to
be not guilty, creating a disproportionate impact from law enforcement
operations.
      (2)   Therefore, for all individuals, the City Police Department will
recognize and consider the extreme potential negative consequences of an arrest
in exercising its discretion regarding whether to take such an action and will
arrest an individual only after determining that less severe alternatives are
unavailable or would be inadequate to effect a satisfactory resolution.
   (D)   The City Police Department will make available and provide material at
all city police stations concerning this subchapter and information concerning
rights of all immigrants.
(Ord. 17-0010, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 39.059 INFORMATION REGARDING CITIZENSHIP OR IMMIGRATION STATUS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits any municipal agency from sending
to, or receiving from, any local, state, federal agency, information regarding
an individual’s citizenship or immigration status.
   (B)   All municipal agents shall be instructed that federal law does not
allow any such prohibition. INFORMATION REGARDING AN INDIVIDUAL’S CITIZENSHIP
OR IMMIGRATION STATUS for purposes of this section, means a statement of the
individual’s country of citizenship or a statement of the individual’s
immigration status.
(Ord. 17-0010, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 39.060 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, clause, section, part, or application of this subchapter
to any person or circumstance is declared invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect, impair, or invalidate the
remainder hereof or its application to any other person or circumstance. It is
hereby declared that the legislative intent of the City Council that this
subchapter should have been adopted had such invalid provision, clause,
section, part, or application not been included here.
(Ord. 17-0010, passed 6-26-2017)
§ 39.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.999.
   (B)   Smoke-free environment on or in municipal property.
      (1)   The official in charge of a public building in the city (or his or
her designee), shall request persons who are smoking in violation of §§
39.020 through
39.024 to stop smoking and may remove a person who fails to stop smoking after
being requested to do so. Failure of an official in charge of a public building
(or his or her designee), to request a person to stop smoking shall constitute
a similar violation, as will unauthorized removal of posted signs.
      (2)   Any person who smokes in a public building or vehicle according to
the terms in §
39.021, shall commit an infraction. The penalty for an infraction shall be
trebled where the same individual has at least three previous related judgments
that are accrued for violating this section within the 12 months immediately
preceding the violation.
      (3)   Each day on which a violation of §§
39.020 through
39.024 occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation and a
financial penalty of an amount as set by the city from time to time shall be
levied for each finding of guilt except wherein noted above.
      (4)   Periodic inspections of facilities and vehicles are to be performed
by the Police Department, Fire Department, Building Department, Health
Department and Occupational Safety Department representatives from any one of
the aforementioned departments may request persons who are smoking in violation
of §§
39.020 through
39.024 to stop smoking and may have removed, a person who fails to stop smoking
after being requested to do so.
(Prior Code, § 42.99) (Ord. 0-05-0013, passed 7-25-2005)
CHAPTER 40: PORT AUTHORITY
Section
   
40.001   Definitions
   
40.002   Creation
   
40.003   Purposes
   
40.004   Jurisdiction
   
40.005   Board of Directors
   
40.006   Powers and duties
   
40.007   Officers and employees
   
40.008   Advisory Council
   
40.009   Annual budget
   
40.010   Development plan
   
40.011   Intergovernmental contracts; acquisition of land
   
40.012   Railroad rights-of-way; powers
   
40.013   Rules and regulations
   
40.014   Provisions governing participation by private enterprise; construction
and operation of facilities
   
40.015   Cumulative Channel Maintenance Fund
   
40.016   Depositories; disbursement of funds
   
40.017   Revenue bonds
   
40.018   Annual fee on watercraft
   
40.019   Miscellaneous provisions
   
40.020   Transfer and savings clause
§ 40.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Common Council of the city as the legislative authority
of the city establishing the Port Authority under the provisions of this
chapter.
   PORT or HARBOR. May be used interchangeably and when used in this chapter
shall mean any area used for servicing, storing, protecting, mooring, loading,
or unloading, or repairing any watercraft, on or adjacent to any body of water
which may be wholly or partially within, or wholly or partially adjacent to the
state and the city.
   PORT AUTHORITY. The Port Authority created pursuant to the authority of this
chapter.
   PUBLICATION. Publication once per week for two consecutive weeks in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city, county, or counties wherein the
publication is required to be made.
   WATERCRAFT. Any vessel, barge, boat, ship, tug, sailing craft, skiff, raft,
inboard, or outboard propelled boat, or any contrivance now known or hereafter
invented, used, or designed for navigation of or use upon water, including a
vessel permanently anchored in a port.
(Prior Code, § 44.01) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.002 CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Port Authority of the city which shall be a
body corporate and politic. The Port Authority may sue and be sued, plead and
be impleaded, and shall have the powers and jurisdiction enumerated in this
chapter and granted under the laws of the state. The exercise by the Port
Authority of the powers conferred upon it shall be deemed to be an essential
governmental function of the state and the city, but the Port Authority shall
not be immune from liability by reason thereof.
   (B)   In the exercise of the powers and authorities herein granted, the Port
Authority shall have power to make and enter into any and all contracts in the
name of the governmental unit creating the authority, and the contracts as may
be necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and which are not
otherwise expressly provided for shall be made without ratification thereof by
any other board, body, or officer.
(Prior Code, § 44.02) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.003 PURPOSES.
   The Port Authority of the city is hereby organized for the purposes of
discharging those powers and duties granted to same under the laws of the
state, including, without limitation, the power to manage, establish,
construct, purchase, or develop any and all facilities necessary to maintain,
enhance, and promote the shoreline, lakefront, rivers, streams, marinas, and
other water resources within, bordering or adjacent to the city and to develop,
maintain, purchase, construct, plan for, and otherwise manage all facilities,
railroads, streets, and other public facilities, including utilities to the
extent permitted by law, for the purpose of developing, maintaining, managing,
and enhancing the recreational, commercial, and industrial opportunities of
residents and businesses of the city.
(Prior Code, § 44.03) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.004 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Limits. The area of jurisdiction of the Port Authority created
hereunder shall include all of the territory of the city and the streams,
lakes, or any tributaries thereof, to the extent permitted by law, adjacent and
bordering, excepting that territory of the city (including the Indiana Harbor
and canal) lying within the jurisdiction of the City Waterway Management
District as provided by I.C. 8-10-9-3 or any subsequent enactment of the State
General Assembly. In addition, jurisdiction is hereby conferred, to the extent
not otherwise limited herein, over the Robert A. Pastrick Marina, and the other
transportation, dock, wharf, pier, port, terminal, or transportation facilities
in, around, or adjacent thereto, or which may be established in, around, or
adjacent thereto and to any of the lakefront, or other tributaries or rivers
lying within the area of jurisdiction, but not including the beach, bathhouse,
and concession stand in Jeorse Park, jurisdiction over which shall remain in
the City Department of Parks and Recreation.
   (B)   Expansion. The Port Authority of the city created hereunder may expand
its jurisdiction to include any other unit (as defined in I.C. 36-1-2-23) of
local government that desires to join the expanded Authority. The legislative
body (as defined in I.C. 36-1-2-9) of each unit of local government that is in
the Authority shall by chapter determine the number of Directors on the Board
of the expanded Authority and any other terms of the expansion that it
considers appropriate. The Common Council of the city, together with the
legislative body of each unit that desires to join the Authority, shall by
ordinance agree to join the Authority and accept the terms of this chapter or
any other ordinance that provides for the expansion of the Port Authority.
(Prior Code, § 44.04) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.005 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Port Authority created by this chapter shall be governed by a Board of
Directors. The Board of Directors shall be established in accordance with the
following provisions.
   (A)   Number, composition, and qualifications. The Board of Directors shall
consist of five members, each of whom shall be a resident of the city prior to
the date of the member’s appointment; and, at the time of appointment and
service on the Board, shall not hold any elected or appointive office of the
city.
   (B)   Appointment. Members of the Board of Directors of the Port Authority
shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city with the advice and consent of the
Common Council.
   (C)   Terms. The Directors of the Port Authority first appointed shall serve
staggered terms so that two of the Directors first appointed shall serve for a
term of four years, one Director for a term of three years, one Director for a
term of two years and one Director for a term of one year. Thereafter, each
succeeding Director shall serve for a term of four years. Vacancies among the
members of the Board of Directors shall be filled by appointment of the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the Common Council only for the unexpired term
of the vacating Director.
   (D)   Officers. Within 45 days of their appointment, the Directors shall
meet and elect one of their number as Chairperson, and another as Vice-
Chairperson, and shall designate their terms of office. The Board shall also
appoint a Secretary, who need not be a Director. The officers of the Board of
Directors shall give bond for the faithful performance of their duties in an
amount which shall be prescribed from time to time by the Board, the expense of
same being paid out of the funds of the Port Authority. Directors shall be
eligible for reappointment without limitation.
   (E)   Quorum. A majority of the Board of Directors shall constitute a
quorum, the affirmative vote of which shall be necessary for any action taken
by the Port Authority. No vacancy in the membership of the Board shall impair
the rights of a quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the
duties of the Port Authority.
   (F)   Compensation. Directors of the Port Authority shall be entitled to
receive as compensation a sum of money as the Board may, from time to time,
determine. In addition, Directors shall be entitled to receive reimbursement
for any and all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in the performance
of the Directors’ duties.
(Prior Code, § 44.05) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.006 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Port Authority created hereunder shall have full power and authority to:
   (A)   Purchase, construct, sell, lease, and operate docks, wharves,
warehouses, piers, and other port, terminal, or transportation facilities
within its jurisdiction consistent with the purposes of the Port Authority and
to make charges for the use thereof;
   (B)   (1)   Straighten, deepen, and improve any channel, river, stream, or
other watercourse or way which may be necessary or proper in the development of
the facilities of the Port;
      (2)   Establish dock lines, piers, and other facilities necessary to the
conduct of pleasure boating within the territory under the jurisdiction, of the
Port Authority; and
      (3)   Regulate and enforce the regulation of all uses and activities
related to the port in the area under the jurisdiction of the Port Authority
and to determine the use of land adjacent to waters under the jurisdiction of
the Port Authority within a reasonable distance from the shorelines of the
waters. However, the Port Authority shall not assess a charge or fee from the
passage of a watercraft through the navigable waters of the state.
   (C)   Acquire, own, hold, sell, lease, or operate real or personal property
for the authorized purposes of the Port Authority;
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Directors may, by resolution, recommend to the
Common Council of the city that the Council authorize general obligation,
mortgage, or revenue bonds for any one or more than one of the following
purposes:
         (a)   To acquire or improve the port or harbor sites;
         (b)   To acquire, construct, extend, alter, or improve structures,
ways, facilities, or equipment necessary for the proper operation of the Port
Authority or the port or harbor within its jurisdiction; and/or
         (c)   To refund outstanding bonds and matured interest coupons and
issue and sell refunding bonds for that purpose.
      (2)   Prior to a recommendation authorized by division (D)(1) above, the
Board shall give notice of a public hearing at which time the Board shall
disclose the purpose for which the bond issue is proposed, the amount of the
proposed issue and all other pertinent data. At least ten days prior to the
date set for hearing, the Board shall publish in two newspapers of general
circulation in the city, a notice of the time, place, and purpose of the
hearing. If there is only one newspaper, one notice shall be sufficient;
      (3)   The governing body shall review the proposal of the Board of
Directors of the Port Authority and if it approves shall provide for the
advertisement and sale of the issue in compliance with I.C. 5-1-11, or future
provisions of state law which may be applicable. For purposes of this chapter,
I.C. 5-1-11 is intended to apply as fully to mortgage bonds as to general
obligation or revenue bonds;
      (4)   Bonds issued under the authority of this chapter are not subject to
limitations on interest rates;
      (5)   The Common Council shall fix the time and place of payment of
principal and interest; but no issue shall have a maturity date in excess of 40
years from the date of issue;
      (6)   Bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter, together with
the interest thereon, shall be tax-exempt as allowed by the laws of the state;
      (7)   The Common Council shall apply the proceeds from the sale of bonds
exclusively to the purposes for which the bonds were issued and only to the
extent necessary therefor; any remaining balance shall be placed in a sinking
fund for the payment of the bonds and the interest thereon; and
      (8)   Nothing in this chapter shall affect existing obligations on
outstanding bonds. In case the Board of Directors of the Port Authority is
discontinued as provided under this chapter or under applicable state law, the
primary obligations on its bonds shall remain unaffected; but, in addition, the
city shall assume liability for the payment of the bonds according to their
terms and in relation to its interest therein.
   (E)   The Port Authority created hereunder, with the approval of the Common
Council, may sell, lease, or enter into a royalty contract for the natural or
mineral resources of land which it owns. Monies received from these sources
shall be deposited in the Nonreverting Capital Fund of the Port Authority;
   (F)   The Port Authority may apply to the proper authorities of the United
States pursuant to appropriate law for the right to establish, operate, and
maintain foreign trade zones within the limits of the Port Authority and to
establish, operate, and maintain the foreign trade zones;
   (G)   Exercise the right of eminent domain to appropriate any land, rights,
rights-of-way, franchises, easements, or other property necessary or proper for
the construction or the efficient operation of any facility of the Port
Authority; and to award damages to land owners for real estate and property
rights appropriated and taken or injuriously affected and in case the Board of
Directors of the Port Authority cannot agree with the owners, lessees, or
occupants of any real estate selected by them for the purposes herein set
forth, it may proceed to procure the condemnation of the same as hereinafter
provided, and in addition thereto, when not in conflict or inconsistent with
the express provisions of this chapter, proceed under the general laws of the
state governing the condemnation of lands and the rights-of-way for other
public purposes which may be in force at the time, the provisions of the laws
having been extended by the laws to ports and harbors and to the properties of
port authorities. In any proceeding prosecuted by the Board of Directors of the
Port Authority to condemn or appropriate any land or the use thereof or any
right therein for purposes permitted by this chapter or under state law, the
Board and all owners and holders of property or rights therein sought to be
taken shall be governed by and have the same rights to as procedure, notices,
hearings, assessments of benefits, and awards and payments thereof as are now
or may hereafter be prescribed by law for the appropriation and condemnation of
real estate and the property owners shall have like powers and rights as to
remonstrance and of appeals to the Circuit or Superior Courts of the county;
provided, that the payment of all damages awarded for all lands and property or
interests or rights therein appropriated under the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid entirely out of funds under the control of the Port Authority,
except that:
      (1)   Upon written application of any property owner affected, the city,
after ten days written notice to the Port Authority and public hearing had
thereon, may revoke the right of eminent domain to be exercised by the Port
Authority as to any parcel or parcels of land inside its borders within 60 days
after the Port Authority has by resolution announced the lands, rights, rights-
of-way, franchises, easements, or other property to be taken.
      (2)   Nothing herein contained shall authorize the Port Authority to take
or disturb property or facilities belonging to any public corporation, public
utility, or common carrier, which property or facilities are necessary and
convenient in the operation of the public corporation, public utility, or
common carrier, unless provision is made for the restoration, relocating, or
duplication of the property or facilities, or upon the election of the public
corporation, public utility, or common carrier, for the payment of
compensation, if any at the sole cost of the Port Authority; provided, that:
         (a)   If any restoration or duplication proposed to be made hereunder
shall involve a relocation of the property or facilities, the new facilities
and location shall be of at least comparable utilitarian value and
effectiveness and the relocation shall not impair the ability of the public
utility or common carrier to compete in its original area of operation; and
         (b)   Provisions for restoration or duplication shall be described in
detail in the resolution for appropriation passed by the Port Authority.
   (H)   Accept, receive, and receipt for federal monies and other monies,
either public or private for the acquisition, construction, enlargement,
improvement, maintenance, equipment, or operation of a port or harbor or other
navigation facilities and sites therefor; and to comply with the provisions of
the laws of the United States and any rules and regulations made thereunder for
the expenditure of federal monies upon ports and other navigation facilities;
   (I)   Maintain the funds as it, from time to time, deems necessary;
   (J)   Direct its agents or employees, when properly identified in writing,
and after at least five days written notice, to enter upon lands within the
confines of its jurisdiction in order to make surveys and examinations
preliminary to location and construction of works for the purposes of the Port
Authority, without liability to the Port Authority or its agents or employees
except for actual damage done;
   (K)   Sell or lease real or personal property not needed for the operation
of the Port Authority and grant easements or rights-of-way over property of the
Port Authority;
   (L)   Promote, advertise, and publicize the port and its facilities; provide
traffic information and rate information to shippers and shipping interests;
appear before rate making authorities to represent and promote the interests of
the Port Authority; and
   (M)   To have and do all other things necessary, convenient, and incidental
to the execution of the foregoing powers and duties, together with those other
powers and duties that may be specified in other sections of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 44.06) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.007 OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Port Authority of the city is hereby empowered to employ and fix
the qualifications, duties, and compensation of employees as it may require to
conduct the business of the Authority. Any employee may be hired under such
terms as the Boards of Directors may prescribe and may be suspended or
dismissed at any time by the Port Authority.
   (B)   In addition, the Port Authority shall employ, retain, and engage
professional and consulting services as it may require to conduct its business,
including, without limitation, competent attorneys admitted to practice in the
state to serve as the Authority’s legal counsel. Services of professional
consultants may be terminated at any time by the Port Authority, or the
Authority may, as necessary, contract with professionals for the provision of
services on any terms which the Board of Directors of the Authority considers
reasonable.
   (C)   Employment by the Port Authority shall be non-discriminatory, and
shall be without regard to the race, color, creed, national origin, religion,
sex, or physical handicap of any individual.
(Prior Code, § 44.07) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.008 ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   The Board of Directors of the Port Authority may establish an Advisory
Council consisting of not less than seven members appointed by the Mayor with
the approval of the Board of Directors which shall be representative of the
commercial and industrial community in and around the city and of those persons
who utilize, on a regular basis, the recreational, marina, and other facilities
of the city. The members of the Council shall serve without compensation for
terms and under other conditions to be specified by the Board of Directors.
(Prior Code, § 44.08) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.009 ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The Board of Directors of the Port Authority shall annually prepare and
adopt a budget for the Port Authority. In preparing the budget, the Board of
Directors shall consult with the office of the City Controller. Rents and
charges received by the Port Authority shall be used for the general expenses
of the Port Authority and to pay interest, amortization, and retirement charges
on money borrowed, and for any other purpose authorized by the laws of the
state. If there remains at the end of any calendar year, a surplus of funds
after providing for the above uses, the Board of Directors may pay the surplus
into the General Fund of the city or into such nonreverting cumulative funds as
the laws of the state may permit. The annual budget shall contain any and all
requests for appropriations of the Port Authority to the Common Council of the
city, and shall be submitted to the Common Council not later than July 15 of
each calendar year. The budget shall contain the specification of any and all
salaries and other compensation arrangements for the officers and employees of
the Port Authority and the compensation arrangements and salaries shall not be
altered more than once yearly.
(Prior Code, § 44.09) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.010 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Board of Directors shall prepare or cause to be prepared a plan
for the future development, construction, and improvement of the port, Robert
A. Pastrick Marina, the shore of Lake Michigan within the jurisdiction of the
Authority and other facilities and lands adjacent thereto, including maps,
profiles, and other data and descriptions as may be necessary to set forth the
location and character of the work to be undertaken by the Port Authority. Upon
the completion of the plan, the Board of Directors shall cause notice by
publication as provided in this chapter to be given in the manner required
therein and shall likewise cause notice to be served upon the owners of the
uplands contiguous to any submerged lands affected by the plan in the manner
provided by law for service of notice in the levy of special assessments by
municipal corporations, and shall permit the inspection thereof at its office
by all persons interested. The notice shall fix the time and place for the
hearing of all objections to the plan which time shall not be less than ten
days nor more than 30 days from the date of last publication of the notice. Any
interested person may file written objections to the plan, provided the
objections are filed with the Secretary of the Board of Directors of the Port
Authority in its office not less than five days prior to the date fixed for the
hearing. After the hearing, the Board of Directors may adopt the plan with any
modifications or amendments thereto as the official plan of the Port Authority.
   (B)   After the adoption of the official plan, the Board of Directors shall,
from time to time, have the power to modify, amend, or extend the same,
provided that any modification, amendment, or extension thereof be subjected to
hearing and notice as provided in this section for the adoption of a new
development plan and that any modification, amendment, or extension shall not
be adopted by the Board until notice and hearing shall be held as provided
herein.
   (C)   The development plan as adopted and modified from time to time shall
govern the construction, reconstruction, development, and maintenance of Port
Authority facilities.
(Prior Code, § 44.10) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.011 INTERGOVERNMENTAL CONTRACTS; ACQUISITION OF LAND.
   (A)   The Board of Directors of the Port Authority of the city may enter
into contracts or other arrangements with the United States government, or any
department thereof, with persons, railroads, or other corporations, with public
corporations, and with the state government of this or other states, with
counties, municipalities, townships, or other governmental agencies created by
or under the authority of the laws of the state, including sanitary, sewage,
drainage, conservation, conservancy, or other improvement districts in this or
other states as may be necessary or convenient for the exercise of powers
granted by the provisions of this chapter and the laws of the state, including
the making of surveys, investigations, or reports thereon, provided that the
contracts or arrangements shall not be in violation of the laws of the state or
of the State Constitution.
   (B)   The Board of Directors may purchase, lease, or acquire land or other
property in any county of the state and in adjoining states for the
accomplishment of an authorized purpose of the Port Authority, or for the
improvement of the harbor and port facilities, including the Robert A. Pastrick
Marina over which the Port Authority has jurisdiction, and may let contracts or
spend money for making the improvements or development of port facilities in
adjoining states.
(Prior Code, § 44.11) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.012 RAILROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY; POWERS.
   In addition to the other powers granted under this chapter and under the
laws of the state, the Port Authority of the city may make contract for,
accept, or otherwise acquire and maintain railroad property and rights-of-way.
The Port Authority may accept and expend funding from any source, and may issue
revenue bonds for the construction, operation, and maintenance of the property
and rights-of-way and the lease or purchase of all necessary equipment and the
appurtenances to successfully operate a railroad over the rights-of-way. The
powers granted under this section and under the corresponding statutes of the
state and the procedures provided for therein shall extend to the Port
Authority created under this chapter even though the railroad facilities will
not serve a port or harbor.
(Prior Code, § 44.12) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.013 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Directors of the Port Authority is hereby authorized to
formulate, adopt, and promulgate written rules and regulations governing the
operation of the Port Authority not otherwise forbidden under the laws of the
state. The Board of Directors may adopt rules and regulations on matters such
as employment and personnel policies, financial management and controls,
management, construction, operation, or maintenance of any port facility, or on
any other matter within its jurisdiction. Unless otherwise provided by the laws
of the state, all rules and regulations shall be first subjected to reasonable
notice and public hearing prior to adoption.
(Prior Code, § 44.13) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.014 PROVISIONS GOVERNING PARTICIPATION BY PRIVATE ENTERPRISE; CONSTRUCTION
AND OPERATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Port Authority of the city shall foster and encourage the
participation of private enterprise in the development of the port, marina, and
other related facilities within the jurisdiction of the Authority to the
fullest extent it deems practicable in the interest of limiting the necessity
of construction and operation of the facilities by the Port Authority. In this
respect, the Port Authority may, upon its own motion or upon the written
request of any other party, advertise and solicit for the construction,
operation, and/or maintenance of any facility included in the development plan
in accordance with plans, specifications, and regulations therefor prepared by
the Board of Directors.
   (B)   It is further provided that in the event the Board of Directors deems
it advisable and practicable, the Board may cause certain facilities included
in the development plan to be installed by private enterprise and leased back
to the Port Authority on an installment contract or option to purchase basis.
The exercise of any power granted to the Port Authority under the provisions of
this section shall be consummated and regulated in accordance with the
following provisions:
      (1)   Contracts for the creation, construction, alteration, or repair of
any building, structure, or other improvement undertaken by a port authority
created in accordance with this chapter shall be let in accordance with I.C.
36-1-12 or any equivalent enactment of future legislation by the state;
      (2)   No lease or sale of any lands or properties shall be made by the
Port Authority unless notice calling for bids for the same shall have been
given by publication as provided by this chapter or by its enabling legislation
of the state. No lease or sale shall be made, except to the highest and best
bidder;
      (3)   In the case of any lease or sale of land by the Port Authority,
specifications for the bids for the lease or sale shall be in a form and detail
as shall be determined by the Port Authority; and
      (4)   Leases for buildings, structures, or other improvements undertaken
by the Port Authority shall be for a reasonable term only, but not for a period
in excess of ten years. However, where the lessee proposes to make capital
improvements to real estate or facilities of the Port Authority for the purpose
of enhancing the facility or services to be provided to industry, commerce, or
the public, the Board of Directors of the Authority may grant a lease for a
longer term as is reasonable to induce the investment.
(Prior Code, § 44.14) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.015 CUMULATIVE CHANNEL MAINTENANCE FUND.
   (A)   The Board of Directors of the Port Authority may, by resolution,
recommend to the city executive and the Common Council of the city that a
Cumulative Channel Maintenance Fund be established to provide funds for
dredging channels, cleaning channels, and shores of debris and any other
pollutants, and the providing and repairing of bulkheads, pilings, docks, and
wharves, purchase and development of land adjoining channels within the
jurisdiction of the Port Authority, and which land is necessary to the
fulfillment of the plan adopted by the Port Authority for the future
development, construction and improvement of its facilities; provided the
purchased and developed land shall be available to the residents of the city
without further charge.
   (B)   (1)   The Common Council may levy a tax in compliance with I.C. 6-1.1-
41 not to exceed $0.10 on each $100, or another amount as set by the city from
time to time, on all taxable property within the city for the Cumulative
Channel Maintenance Fund until March 1, 2001.
      (2)   After March 1, 2001, the tax shall not exceed $0.0333 on each $100,
or another amount as set by the city from time to time, on all taxable property
within the city.
   (C)   The tax, when collected, shall be held in a special fund to be known
as the Cumulative Channel Maintenance Fund.
(Prior Code, § 44.15) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.016 DEPOSITORIES; DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   Before receiving any monies, the Secretary of the Port Authority shall
furnish bond in an amount as shall be determined by the Port Authority, with
surety satisfactory to it, and all funds coming into the hands of the Secretary
shall be deposited by him or her to the account of the Port Authority in one or
more depositories as shall be qualified to receive deposits of funds in the
same manner as is done by the city, which deposits shall be secured in the same
manner as city funds are required to be secured. No disbursements shall be made
from the funds except in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the
Port Authority.
(Prior Code, § 44.16) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.017 REVENUE BONDS.
   (A)   Whenever the Port Authority created hereunder has been authorized by
the Common Council of the city to issue and sell revenue bonds for the purpose
of obtaining funds with which to construct, purchase, lease, operate, maintain,
or improve facilities included in the development plan or amendment thereof,
the revenue bonds shall be issued in the name of the city, shall be executed by
the Mayor and the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Port Authority
and shall be attested to by the Clerk of the city.
   (B)   In authorizing revenue bonds and providing for the issuance and sale
thereof, the Common Council shall, by chapter, consistent with pertinent
statutes, provide all necessary details concerning the form and tenor of the
revenue bonds, the amount thereof, the maturity dates, the provision for
payment of principal and interest, and negotiability, and all other details,
requirements, regulations, or specifications necessary to make the revenue
bonds acceptable and legal instruments.
   (C)   The Common Council shall, in the aforesaid §
40.016, make provision for the expenditure of the funds derived from the sale
of revenue bonds in accordance with the purposes for which the issuance and
sale thereof was authorized. The Common Council shall further and specifically
provide for the allocation of income and revenue of the Port Authority into the
fund or funds as may be necessary to properly secure the accumulation of money
in a separate account or accounts for use in the payment of principal interest
of the revenue bonds as they become due and payable.
(Prior Code, § 44.17) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.018 ANNUAL FEE ON WATERCRAFT.
   The Common Council may impose an annual fee upon each watercraft that is
docked for more than 29 days during a year in waters that are under the
jurisdiction of the Port Authority under this chapter pursuant to I.C. 8-10-5-
22(b). The fee shall amount to not more than an amount as set by the city from
time to time per foot for watercraft for 30 feet or less, and not more than an
amount as set by the city from time to time per foot for watercraft over 30
feet. All fees collected under this section shall be deposited in an
Accumulative Channel Maintenance Fund established under this chapter and shall
be used only to pay for dredging. The fee shall be established only upon
petition and recommendation of the Board of Directors of the Port Authority.
(Prior Code, § 44.18) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.019 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall:
   (A)   Impair the provisions of law or chapter directing the payment of
revenues derived from public property into sinking funds or dedicating the
revenues to specific purposes; nor shall any provisions of this chapter impair
the obligations on current bonded indebtedness for the Robert A. Pastrick
Marina, or of the Department of Parks or Redevelopment Commission of the city
incurred in connection with the marina;
   (B)   Impair the powers of any county, township, municipal corporation, or
political subdivision to develop or improve port and terminal facilities; or
   (C)   Impair or interfere with the exercise of any permit for the removal of
sand or gravel, or other similar permits issued by this state or the United
States, or interfere with the exercise of jurisdiction over interstate commerce
and navigable waterways by any agency or subdivision of the United States
except as may be authorized by law. By passage of this chapter, it is the
intent of the Common Council of the city to assert completely and to the limits
available to it by law, subject only to the limitations stated herein, its
jurisdiction over coastlines and inland waterways.
(Prior Code, § 44.19) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
§ 40.020 TRANSFER AND SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   (A)   Operation, management, and control of the Robert A. Pastrick Marina,
all of related appurtenances and facilities and the contiguous park and
lakefront facilities of the city (but not including the beach, bathhouse, and
concession stand facilities of Jeorse Park) which, prior to the adoption of
this chapter, were vested in or controlled by the Department of Parks and
Recreation, Department of Redevelopment or any other department or
instrumentality of the city are hereby transferred to the sole jurisdiction of
the Port Authority created hereunder.
   (B)   Likewise, all employments and employees of the marina and the
contiguous or related facilities previously within the jurisdiction of the
departments are likewise transferred to the Port Authority provided, however,
that the transfer shall have no effect upon the compensation, terms, and
conditions of the employees’ employments, and shall be without prejudice or
impairment to any rights or obligations of the city or the employees with
respect thereto.
(Prior Code, § 44.20) (Ord. 0-99-0027, passed 12-20-1999)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES, GENERALLY
      
51.   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATER SYSTEM
      
53.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
      
54.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
55.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES, GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Compliance with chapter
   
50.002   Excavations
   
50.003   Use of street by utilities
   
50.004   Repairing existing facilities
   
50.005   Implied agreements by utilities
   
50.006   Reservation of power in city
   
50.007   Inspector’s uniform or badge
   
50.008   Maps and records of locations of facilities
Gas
   
50.020   Calorific value
   
50.021   Pressure
Poles and Wires
   
50.035   Erection of poles
   
50.036   Supervision of installments
   
50.037   Placing signs on or damaging poles
   
50.038   Joint use of poles
   
50.039   Restoration of streets and sidewalks
   
50.040   Wires to be securely fastened
   
50.041   Permission to go upon roofs to string wires
   
50.042   Removal of wires and poles
   
50.043   Placing wires underground
Connections
   
50.055   Construction of permanent improvements; requirements
   
50.056   Inclusion in improvement contract
   
50.057   Assessment for costs
   
50.058   Notice of intention by city to install
   
50.059   Approval of work
   
50.060   Certificate of occupancy required
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   All public utilities shall comply with the provisions of this chapter unless
otherwise provided or required by law.
(Prior Code, § 50.001)
§ 50.002 EXCAVATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person having any pipes, wires, cables, conduits, or
arteries used in conveying water, gas, electricity, or any other public utility
product to the consumers or residents of the city, or other products to others,
through the mains, wires, cables, arteries, or conduits which are laid in,
through, or under the streets, alleys, or other public ways or places in the
city, to dig up or open up or excavate any street, alley, or other public way
or place where the mains, pipes, wires, cables, arteries, or conduits are laid,
except to make necessary repairs to the mains, pipes, wires, cables, arteries,
or conduits; provided, that any person desiring to dig into or excavate in any
street, alley, or other public way or place in the city shall, before so doing,
make application to the Board of Public Works and Safety for a permit to do so;
and provided further, that the application shall be in compliance with this
code and with §§
97.075 through 97.083 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 50.002) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.003 USE OF STREET BY UTILITIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to lay or construct or place railroad
tracks, gas pipes, conduits, wires, arteries, or cables in, over, or upon any
of the streets, alleys, or public ways in the city without first obtaining
written permission from the Common Council. A written petition shall be filed
with the Common Council requesting permission to do so. This petition shall be
accompanied by a plat or map showing the exact location of the proposed
installation. In the event permission is granted by the Common Council, a bond
shall be required of the petitioner, in compliance with §§
97.075 through
97.081 of this code. The bond shall be subject to approval by the Board of
Public Works and Safety. No work contemplated in this section shall be
commenced until the Common Council shall have given its express and specific
permission.
   (B)   It is the intention of this section that only matters concerning the
laying, placing, or constructing of new work and the extension of existing
facilities shall require permission from the Common Council.
   (C)   No water pipes or mains shall be placed in any public way and no way
shall be disturbed by the Water Department without express permission of the
Board of Public Works and Safety upon proper petition. This permission shall
not require bond.
(Prior Code, § 50.003) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.004 REPAIRING EXISTING FACILITIES.
   A petition for permission to make emergency and minor repairs to existing
facilities shall be filed with the Board of Public Works and Safety as provided
in this code and the Board of Public Works and Safety shall have authority to
grant the permission.
(Prior Code, § 50.004) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.005 IMPLIED AGREEMENTS BY UTILITIES.
   Any utility which requests written or oral permission from the city for the
doing of anything shall be bound by changes made in the request or permission
if it accepts the benefits or commences work under the permit as changed,
whether the utility agrees thereto in writing or not.
(Prior Code, § 50.005) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.006 RESERVATION OF POWER IN CITY.
   Nothing contained in this code or in any franchise agreement or contract
between the city and any person shall be construed to limit the power of the
Common Council of the city to enact reasonable ordinances relating to the use
of streets, alleys, and other public ways or public places within the city, it
being intended to reserve to the city the right to pass any ordinance which,
under any express or implied police power, it possesses.
(Prior Code, § 50.006)
§ 50.007 INSPECTOR’S UNIFORM OR BADGE.
   Every person furnishing or selling gas, water, electricity, or telephone
service to persons within the city shall supply or cause to be furnished to
every person employed by the person, as inspector, examiner, or tester of
meters or as an installation or repair person, a uniform or badge showing the
nature of employment and the name of the person by whom he or she is employed.
No person employed for installing, testing, examining, repairing, inspecting,
or removing meters or service shall engage in employment unless he or she is
wearing a uniform or badge in a manner so that it can readily be perceived. It
is unlawful for any person not employed in that capacity to enter or obtain
entrance to any house, building, or store upon the representation that he or
she is thus employed or to wear any uniform or badge showing or representing
employment. It is unlawful for any person not an employee of a public utility
to wear a badge similar to or to impersonate that provided employees of public
utilities.
(Prior Code, § 50.007) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.008 MAPS AND RECORDS OF LOCATIONS OF FACILITIES.
   All public utilities owning, using, or controlling any electric wires,
pipes, or conduits for the transmission of electricity, water, gas, or heat in
the city shall be required to file with the Board of Public Works and Safety a
map and record of the wires, pipes, or conduits, showing the size, depth,
inclination, location, date, and type of construction and to record every
change which may be made in the same, together with all new connections and
improvements. Reports and maps of changes or additions made shall be due within
30 days after the completion of the work.
(Prior Code, § 50.008) Penalty, see §
50.999
GAS
§ 50.020 CALORIFIC VALUE.
   All gas furnished by any person engaged in the business of furnishing or
supplying gas to any customer for heating, power, or illuminating purposes in
the city shall be and is required to have a calorific value of not less than
1,000 British thermal units gross per cubic foot, as determined by a standard
calorimeter measured at 60°F and under a barometric pressure of 30 inches of
mercury.
(Prior Code, § 50.020) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.021 PRESSURE.
   (A)   The pressure of all manufactured gas for heating, power, or
illuminating purposes supplied or furnished to any customer by any person
engaged in the business of furnishing or supplying gas within the city shall at
no time, at the inlet of the consumer’s meter, be less than one and one-half
inches of water.
   (B)   No consumer shall be supplied with gas having more than 100%
fluctuation in pressure above the minimum pressure at the inlet of the
consumer’s meter.
(Prior Code, § 50.021) Penalty, see §
50.999
POLES AND WIRES
§ 50.035 ERECTION OF POLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to erect or maintain upon any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way or place in the city any pole unless it is
absolutely necessary and is used for and as a part of some system of public
utility in the city or by persons having a franchise or license therefor. All
poles shall be located within and against the curb line or the curbing of the
sidewalk. Each pole erected in an alley shall be located against the outside
line. When any pole erected in the city ceases to be used for the purpose for
which it was erected or for any other approved purpose, it shall be removed at
once by the utility which owned or used it.
(Prior Code, § 50.035) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.036 SUPERVISION OF INSTALLMENTS.
   All poles, posts, crossbars, wires, and other fixtures placed on or used in
any street, alley, or public way or place within the city by any telegraph,
telephone, electric light, or power or any other company shall be placed,
owned, used, and maintained under the supervision and direction of the Board of
Public Works and Safety. The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have the
power to fix the size, height, and designation of poles and shall have the
power to order the location and the change of the location of poles, wires, and
apparatus whenever the same is necessary for the safety or convenience of the
public or for the prevention of danger to life or property; and the owner shall
be liable for the cost of the change of location. Poles and wires or other
apparatus shall be so located as to cause as little obstruction as possible
either to travel on the street or in the use and enjoyment of private property.
(Prior Code, § 50.036) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.037 PLACING SIGNS ON OR DAMAGING POLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to cut, damage, disfigure, or to post, paste,
tack, or in any way to attach or affix to any telegraph, telephone, electric
light pole, fire or police alarm pole, or other pole erected by authority or
permission by the city any card, bill, notice, announcement, or other
advertisement; provided, that this section shall not apply to legal notices
posted by persons acting under authority by order of a court or in pursuance of
a duty imposed by this code or law.
(Prior Code, § 50.037) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.038 JOINT USE OF POLES.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may compel the joint use of poles
whenever practicable in order to limit the number of poles on streets, alleys,
and public ways or places to a minimum, consistent with safety from danger to
life and property.
   (B)   On any poles of any electric light or power, telegraph, or telephone
company used jointly by two or more companies, each company shall be allotted a
space zone and shall restrict its wires to that zone. Space shall be measured
from the top of the pole down.
   (C)   The upper zone on the pole shall be at all times reserved for the use
of the city in stringing its wires for fire alarm and police telegraph
communication.
(Prior Code, § 50.038) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.039 RESTORATION OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Any person locating any poles or other appliances in or on any street,
alley, or other public way or place in the city shall restore, replace, and
properly relay and repair, to the satisfaction and approval of the Board of
Public Works and Safety, any sidewalk, street, pavement, or earth which may be
displaced, injured, or damaged in the location or maintenance of poles or
appliances, by complying with the provisions of this code and especially §§
97.075 through
97.081 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 50.039) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.040 WIRES TO BE SECURELY FASTENED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any telephone, electric, telegraph, or other
company or any person to have or maintain on any street, alley, or other public
place within the city any wire that is not securely fastened or attached to a
sufficient number of poles or supports so as to prevent the wire from being or
becoming loose.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed any loose
wire upon any street or alley or other public way or place within the city.
(Prior Code, § 50.040) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.041 PERMISSION TO GO UPON ROOFS TO STRING WIRES.
   It is unlawful for any person while engaged in the stringing from pole to
pole of electric wires to enter upon the roof of any building within the city
without first procuring from the owner or occupant of a building permission and
authority in writing to do so.
(Prior Code, § 50.041) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.042 REMOVAL OF WIRES AND POLES.
   (A)   Moving buildings.
      (1)   When the Board of Public Works and Safety has issued a permit for
the moving of a building by a licensed building mover and the moving of the
building will bring the same into contact with any wires, poles, or lamps of
any electric, telephone, or telegraph company, public utility, or other persons
whose wires or poles obstruct or may be affected, the Board of Public Works and
Safety shall cause the permittee to serve written notice on each company or
person that the permit has been granted and that the moving of the building
will necessitate the lowering, raising, cutting, or removal of the wires or
poles at the specific places named in the notices. Notices shall be served at
least 48 hours prior to the time the building is to be moved across or on any
street or alley so obstructed or affected.
      (2)   When notice has been served upon the persons owning or controlling
any wires, it shall be their duty, and is unlawful for them to fail or refuse
to raise the wires or to cut and remove the wires, if necessary, to permit the
passage of the building to allow it to be moved to the point of destination as
provided in the permit of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 50.042)
   (B)   Costs.
      (1)   The person owning or controlling the wires or poles mentioned
division (A) above, upon notice, shall lower, cut, raise, or remove the wires
or poles which impede the passage of the building to be moved. If the wires or
poles are located more than 25 feet above the surface of the public way upon
which the building is to be moved, the costs of lowering, cutting, raising, or
removing the wires or poles shall be paid by the permittee and the person
owning or controlling the wires and poles may, in that case, require the
permittee to deposit a reasonable amount in advance to pay for the cost.
   (2)   It is unlawful for any person to refuse to lower, cut, raise, or
remove wires or poles, if the action is necessary, to permit the movement of a
building for which a permit has been issued, at places which are specified in
the notice which has been served upon the persons owning or controlling the
wires or poles.
(Prior Code, § 50.043) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.043 PLACING WIRES UNDERGROUND.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety may order any public utility company or
person to place its wires, cables, conduits, and appliances underground
whenever, in the opinion of the Board of Public Works and Safety, public
necessity requires the same. All necessary conduits for the wires and
appliances and all gas mains shall be constructed and maintained under the
control and supervision of the Board of Public Works and Safety. Any damage or
injury caused to any street or alley or other public way or place within the
city by the construction or maintenance of wires, cables, conduits, and
appliances and mains shall be repaired by the utility or person constructing or
maintaining the same, to the approval and satisfaction of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 50.044) Penalty, see §
50.999
CONNECTIONS
§ 50.055 CONSTRUCTION OF PERMANENT IMPROVEMENTS; REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of all owners of lots and lands in the city abutting on
a street or public way, which the proper authorities of the city have declared
it their intention to improve by permanent improvement resolution, to make
private connections from their respective abutting lots or lands with sewer,
gas, water, and all other like pipes and public conveniences, and to bring all
connections inside the curb lines of streets or public ways before the
permanent improvement thereof within 30 days after the first publication of
notice of adoption of the resolution.
(Prior Code, § 50.055) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.056 INCLUSION IN IMPROVEMENT CONTRACT.
   All plans and specifications adopted for the permanent improvement of
streets or public ways shall, in addition to the necessary provisions regarding
grading and the construction of the improvement proper, provide for all
connections mentioned in §
50.055. All connections not made by owners of abutting lots and lands within
the 30-day period shall be and are required to be included in the general
contract for the improvement and constructed at the cost of the respective
defaulting owners. The cost of the connections so included in the general
contract shall be assessed against the abutting property and shall be a lien
thereon and collected in the same manner as expenses of other street
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 50.056) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.057 ASSESSMENT FOR COSTS.
   Bidders on the improvement of any street or public way shall state the
amount bid per lineal foot on account of each kind of private connection and of
bringing the same within the curb line, where not already done, and the cost of
the connections shall be charged by the proper legal authorities to the owner
of the property on the assessment roll and the amount thereon shall be a lien
on the property, collectible in the same manner as expenses for other street
improvements.
(Prior Code, § 50.057) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.058 NOTICE OF INTENTION BY CITY TO INSTALL.
   Whenever the proper authorities of the city shall adopt a resolution for the
permanent improvement of the roadway of any street or public way, the
authorities shall in the resolution declare their intention of making, by
contract and at the abutting owners’ expenses, all private connections with
sewer, water, and other similar pipes and public conveniences, and of bringing
the connections inside the curb line of the street or public way where the same
has not already been done; and notice of the intention by the authorities shall
also be made a part of the notice given concerning the improvement as required
by law.
(Prior Code, § 50.058) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.059 APPROVAL OF WORK.
   All work of making a private connection and bringing the same within the
curb lines as provided in this subchapter, whether done by the owner or by the
contract made by the proper city authorities as provided in this subchapter,
shall be done subject to the approval of the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 50.059) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.060 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to furnishing any electric and/or gas service to any dwelling
unit in the city the public utility shall require that the owner of the unit
has complied with the city code. Evidence of compliance with the city code
shall be by certificate of occupancy issued by the Director of the Division of
Inspections and Permits.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all dwelling units in
the city both new and existing.
(Prior Code, § 50.060) (Ord. 3150, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.999.
   (B)   Certificate of occupancy required. Violation of the provisions of §
50.060 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding an amount as set by the city
from time to time or by imprisonment not exceeding six months or by both a fine
and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 50.999) (Ord. 3150, passed - -1977)
CHAPTER 51: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose and policy
   
51.002   Development of specific limits
   
51.003   Administration
   
51.004   Abbreviations
   
51.005   Definitions
Limitations on Wastewater Discharges
   
51.020   Discharge prohibitions
   
51.021   Limitations on trucked or hauled waste
Limitations on Wastewater Strength
   
51.035   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
   
51.036   State requirements
   
51.037   Specific pollutant limitations
   
51.038   Right of revision
   
51.039   Dilution
   
51.040   Accidental discharges
Fees
   
51.055   Purpose
   
51.056   Charges and fees
   
51.057   Permit application fees
Permits, Reporting, Monitoring, and Inspections
   
51.070   Pretreatment
   
51.071   Wastewater dischargers
Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
51.085   General
   
51.086   Permit application
   
51.087   Permit modifications
   
51.088   Permit conditions required
   
51.089   Permit conditions allowed
   
51.090   Permit duration
   
51.091   Limitations on permit transfer
   
51.092   Permit reissuance
Reporting Requirements for Permittees
   
51.105   Compliance date report
   
51.106   Periodic compliance reports
   
51.107   Baseline monitoring reports (BMRs)
   
51.108   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
51.109   Spill/slug load control plans
   
51.110   Hazardous waste notification
   
51.111   Special reporting requirements for IUs
   
51.112   Reports of changed conditions
   
51.113   Reports of potential problems
   
51.114   Reports from unpermitted IUs
   
51.115   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
51.116   Right of entry; inspection and monitoring
   
51.117   Inspection and sampling
   
51.118   Confidential information
   
51.119   Sample collection and analysis
   
51.120   Application signatories and certifications
   
51.121   Search warrants
Enforcement
   
51.135   Emergency suspension of service and discharge permits
   
51.136   Revocation of permit or termination of discharge
   
51.137   Notification of violation
   
51.138   Show cause hearing
   
51.139   Administrative orders
   
51.140   Judicial proceedings
   
51.141   Operating upsets
   
51.142   Bypasses
   
51.143   Prohibited discharge standards
   
51.144   Remedies non-exclusive
   
51.145   Enforcement escalation
   
51.146   Noncompliance hearing
   
51.147   Publication of IUs in significant noncompliance
Additional Requirements and Provisions
   
51.160   Recordkeeping
   
51.161   Removal credits
   
51.162   Net/gross calculation
   
51.163   Combined wastestreams
   
51.164   Conversion to equivalent mass or concentration limits
   
51.165   Sewer connections
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the District
wastewater collection and treatment systems, and enables the District to
protect public health in conformity with all applicable local, state, and
federal laws.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the District POTW
which will interfere with the normal operation of the POTW or contaminate the
resulting municipal sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the District POTW
which will pass through the POTW inadequately treated into receiving waters or
the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the POTW;
      (3)   To protect POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and
sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the POTW;
      (5)   To enable the District to comply with its NPDES permit conditions,
sludge use, and disposal requirements, and any other federal or state laws to
which the POTW is subject.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the POTW, and provides for
the regulation of discharges into the District POTW through the issuance of
individual wastewater discharge permits the issuance of which are authorized
herein. This chapter also provides for monitoring, compliance, and enforcement
activities, establishes administrative review procedures, and industrial user
(IU) reporting requirements.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.002 DEVELOPMENT OF SPECIFIC LIMITS.
   (A)   Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. Parts 403.6(c)(1) and 403.8(f)(4), this chapter
contains specific pollutant limitations in §
51.037, developed to assist the District in achieving the declared objectives
in §
51.001 hereof.
   (B)   Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. Parts 122.21(j)(4) and 403.5(c)(1), and at such
time that the District shall submit application for renewal of its NPDES
permit, the District shall provide a written technical evaluation of the need
to revise the specific pollutant limitations in §
51.037 hereof.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.003 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the City Director of Utilities
(“Director”) as Superintendent of the District, shall administer, implement,
and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties
imposed upon the Director may be delegated by the Director to a duly authorized
District employee.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.004 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BMP    Best Management Practice
BMR    Baseline Monitoring Report
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    Categorical Industrial User
COD    Chemical Oxygen Demand
gpd    Gallons per day
IDEM   Indiana Department of Environmental Management
IU     Industrial User
mg/L   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NSCIU  Nonsignificant Categorical Industrial User
POTW   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIU    Significant Industrial User
SNC    Significant Noncompliance
TSS    Total Suspended Solids
U.S.C. United States Code
USEPA  United States Environmental Protection Agency
 
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Clean Water Act, also known as the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq., as amended.
   ACCEPTABLE CEILING CONCENTRATION. Pursuant to 29 C.F.R. Part 1910.1000(b)
(2), and with reference to Table Z-2 of Part 1910.1000, the highest
concentration level, in parts per million, of each air contaminant listed in
Table Z-2 to which any person may be exposed at any time during an eight-hour
period except for a time period, and up to a concentration not exceeding the
maximum duration and concentration allowed in the column under “acceptable
maximum peak above the ceiling concentration for an eight-hour shift.”
   APPLICABLE PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. For any specified pollutant, District
prohibitive discharge standards, District specific limitations on discharge,
the state’s Pretreatment Standards, or the National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards, whichever standard is most stringent.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. Region V Administrator, USEPA.
   AUTHORIZED OR DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operating facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions that govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for individual wastewater discharge permit
requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state, or local governmental facility: a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above, may
designate a DULY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the District.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). The schedule of activities, prohibitions
of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to
implement the prohibitions listed in §
51.020 (40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b)). BMPs include treatment requirements,
operating procedures, and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage, or
leaks, sludge, or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage. BMPs
also include alternative means (e.g., management plans) of complying with or in
the place of certain established Categorical Pretreatment Standards and
effluent limits.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic material under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/1).
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the City Sanitary District.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastewaters from any portion of an IU’s
treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER (CIU). An IU subject to a categorical
pretreatment standard or categorical standard.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by USEPA in accordance with
§§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) that apply to a specific
category of IUs and that appear in 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N, Parts 405-471.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A measurement of the amount of oxygen required
to oxidize organic and oxidizable inorganic compounds of water and wastewater.
It shall be expressed as the amount of oxygen consumed, in milligrams per
liter, from a chemical oxidant in a specific test, in accordance with the
procedure prescribed by 40 C.F.R. Part 136.3.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A sample collected in accordance with the requirements of
40 C.F.R. § 403 Appx. E.
   CITY. The City of East Chicago, Indiana or its governing body, the Common
Council.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A sample collected in accordance with the requirements of
40 C.F.R. § 403 Appx E.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The District.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in units of
mass, the DAILY DISCHARGE is the total mass discharged over the course of a
day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of concentration, the
DAILY DISCHARGE is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   DISTRICT. The City Sanitary District or its Board of Commissioners.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or USEPA. The United States Environmental
Protection Agency, or, where appropriate, the administrator or other duly
authorized official of the Agency.
   FUME. Any gas-like emanation containing minute solid particles arising from
the heating of a solid body.
   GAS. Any substance characterized by relatively low density and viscosity,
high ability to expand and contract with changes in temperature and pressure,
high ability to diffuse readily, and a spontaneous tendency to distribute
itself uniformly throughout any container.
   GRAB SAMPLE. Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403 Appx. E, a sample that is taken
from a wastestream without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a
period of time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into a POTW from any non-
domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1317.
   INDUSTRIAL USER (IU). A source of indirect discharge.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Solid, liquid, or gaseous waste resulting from any
industrial, manufacturing, trade, or business process or from the development,
recovery, or processing of natural resources.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge
sewage, industrial wastes, and/or other wastes into any sewer as issued by the
District.
   INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to be
discharged at any time, determined from analysis of any grab, discreet, or
composite sample collected, independent of industrial flow rate, and duration
of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, does one of the following;
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, its sludge processes, or its selected sludge use or disposal
methods.
      (2)   Causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit,
including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation.
      (3)   Prevents the use of the POTW’s sewage sludge or its sludge disposal
method selected in compliance with the following statutory provisions,
regulations, or permits issued thereunder or more stringent state or local
regulations:
         (a)   Section 405 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345);
         (b)   The Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 U.S.C. § 6901),
including:
            1.   Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); and
            2.   The rules contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA (42 U.S.C. § 6941).
         (c)   The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. § 7401); and
         (d)   The Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. § 2601).
   LOCAL LIMIT. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the
District upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and
specific discharge prohibitions listed in 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   LOWER EXPLOSIVE LIMIT (LEL). The lower limit of flammability of a gas or
vapor at ordinary ambient temperatures expressed in percent of the gas or vapor
in air by volume, as measured by instrumentation calibrated with methane gas.
   MAY. Is permitted.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   mg/L. Milligrams per liter.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all daily discharges measured during a calendar
month divided by the number of daily discharges measured during that month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of daily discharges
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all daily discharges measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of daily discharges measured
during that month.
   NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(1), any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits, general discharge
prohibitions, or specific discharge prohibitions, promulgated by the USEPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317, which
applies to IUs. This definition includes prohibitive discharge limits
established pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.3.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is (or may be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(c), that will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section; provided
that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE as defined herein has commenced if the
owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun or caused to begin, as part of a continuous onsite
construction program
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing building, structures, or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which is intended to be used in its operation within
a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any process such as air
conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration that does not come in contact with any
raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or finished product and
during which the only pollutant added to the water is heat.
   NPDES PERMIT. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit, which
sets the conditions for the discharge of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants to the navigable waters of the United States.
   O&M. Operation and maintenance.
   OTHER WASTES. Decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark, lime, refuse, ashes,
garbage, offal, oil, tar, chemicals, and all other substances except sewage and
industrial wastes.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits a POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation).
   PERMITTEE. Any IU to which the District has issued a wastewater discharge
permit.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local governmental
entities.
   pH. The logarithm (to the base ten) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
activity of a solution, expressed in moles per liter of solution.
   ppb. Parts per billion
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural, and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes; by process changes; or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on an IU, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS OR STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards, and local limits.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW), A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the District. This
definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a
liquid nature and any conveyances, which convey wastewater to a treatment
plant.
   SANITARY DISTRICT. The Sanitary District of the city, a municipal
corporation, also referred to as DISTRICT.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE. Water-cooled human wastes or a combination of water-carried wastes
from residences, business buildings, institutions, and industrial
establishments, together with such ground, surface, storm, and other waters as
may be present.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Any IU who:
      (1)   Is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards;
      (2)   Discharges an average of 25,000 or more gallons per day of process
wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling, and boiler blow down
wastewaters) to the POTW, or that contributes a process waste stream which
makes up 5% or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of
the POTW; or
      (3)   Is designated as such by the District on the basis that the IU
presents a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation,
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC). Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. Part 403.8(f)(2)
(viii), an IU is in SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE if its violation meets one or
more of the following criteria:
      (1)   CHRONIC VIOLATIONS OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGE LIMITS, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a
numeric pretreatment standard;
      (2)   TECHNICAL REVIEW CRITERIA (TRC) VIOLATIONS, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits multiplied
by the applicable TRC (TRC=1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil, and grease, and 1.2 for
all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement
(daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, BMPs, or narrative
standard) that the District determines has caused, alone or in combination with
other discharges, interference, or pass through, including endangering the
health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare, or to the environment or has resulted in the
District’s exercise of its emergency authority under 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(vi)
(B) to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and/or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of best management practices, which the District determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
   SLUDGE. Any solid, semi-solid, or liquid waste generated from a municipal,
commercial, or industrial wastewater treatment plant, or air pollution control
facility, or another waste having similar characteristics and effects as
defined in standards issued under §§ 402 and 405 of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1342(a), and in the applicable requirements under §§ 3001, 3004, and 4004 of
the SWDA.
   SLUG LOAD or SLUG DISCHARGE. 
      (1)   The discharge of any substance at a rate or in a concentration
which causes interference to the POTW;
      (2)   Any discharge which exceeds, for a period longer than 15 minutes,
more than five times the average 24-hour flow, during normal operation;
      (3)   Which exceeds, for a period longer than 15 minutes, more than five
times the 24-hour allowable concentration of any substance listed in §
51.037;
      (4)   A discharge which has a reasonable potential to cause interference
or pass through; or
      (5)   In any other way, violate the District’s regulations, local limits,
or permit conditions.
   SMOKE. Any air suspension containing minute solid particles and droplets,
resulting mainly from the incomplete combustion of carbonaceous and other
organic matter.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION. A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Director of Utilities of the city who acts as Director
of the District, and supervises the operation of the POTW, and who is charged
with certain duties and responsibilities by this chapter. The term also means a
duly authorized representative of the Director.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that
floats on the surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other
liquid, and that is removable by laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANTS. Those substances referred to in § 307(a) of the Act, being
33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), as well as any other known potential substances capable of
producing toxic effects.
   TWENTY-FOUR HOUR FLOW. The volume of flow representing a monthly average of
24 hours of flow as measured by flow monitoring equipment which has been
approved by the District.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which an IU unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with either the standards set forth
in §
51.037 hereof or applicable categorical pretreatment standards due to factors
beyond the reasonable control of the IU, and excluding noncompliance to the
extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper operation thereof.
   USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   VAPOR. The gaseous state of any substance which is liquid or solid at room
temperature and pressure.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW which
is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER DISCHARGES
§ 51.020 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute, introduce or cause to
be introduced, discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or indirectly, any
of the following described substances into the wastewater disposal system, the
POTW or otherwise to the facilities of the District which causes pass through
or interference. These prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether or
not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other
national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute, introduce, cause to
be introduced, discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or indirectly, any
of the following described substances into the wastewater disposal system, the
POTW or otherwise to the facilities of the District.
      (1)   Any pollutant which by reason of its nature or quantity is, or may
be, sufficient either alone or by interaction to cause fire or explosion or be
injurious in any way to the operation of the POTW. This prohibition shall
include any wastestream with a closed cup flashpoint of less than 60°C (140°F)
using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21, and any wastestream
capable of causing an exceedance of ten (10% of the lower explosive limit for
flammable/explosive gases at any point within the POTW.
      (2)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or higher than 10.0 in any
grab sample, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage
or hazard to structures, equipment, or personnel of the system.
      (3)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or treatment
residues, sludges, or scums to be unsuitable for reclamation and reuse or to
interfere with the reclamation process. In no case shall a substance discharged
to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal
criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed under § 405 of the Act, being 42
U.S.C. § 1345; any criteria, guidelines, or regulations affecting sludge use or
disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §
6901, the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances
Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., or state standards applicable to
the sludge management method being used.
      (4)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the District in accordance with §
51.021 of this chapter.
      (5)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference; but in no case,
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds
40°C (104°F).
      (7)   Any slug load, which shall mean any pollutant, including oxygen
demanding pollutants (BOD, COD, and the like), released in a discharge at a
flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which will cause interference to the
POTW.
      (8)   Petroleum, oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
      (9)   Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to, non-contact
cooling water, unless otherwise authorized by the District.
      (10)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the
District in compliance with applicable state or federal regulation.
      (11)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will or may cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW or to the flow in a sewer resulting in
interference with the operation of the POTW.
      (12)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases (including smoke, vapors,
and fumes), or solids which either singly or by interaction are capable of
creating a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry
into any part of the POTW for its maintenance and repair.
      (13)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
      (14)   Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 LIMITATIONS ON TRUCKED OR HAULED WASTE.
   (A)   Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5(b)(8), the discharge of any wastewater
or industrial waste to the POTW collection system which has been trucked,
hauled, or otherwise removed from its source prior to discharge, is prohibited
unless formal approval for such discharge has been granted by the District.
   (B)   Upon approval, discharge shall be allowed at, and only at, those
points designated by the District. Such discharges shall be governed by the
following rules.
      (1)   (a)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at
locations and at such times designated by the District. Such waste shall not
violate §
51.020 or any other requirements established by the District.
         (b)   The District may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain
individual wastewater discharge permits.
      (2)   (a)   The District may require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain individual wastewater discharge permits.
         (b)   The District may require generators of hauled industrial waste
to obtain individual wastewater discharge permits. The District also may
prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The discharge of hauled
industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   (a)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at
locations designated by the District. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the District.
         (b)   The District may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure
compliance with applicable standards.
         (c)   The District may require the industrial waste hauler to provide
a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
      (4)   (a)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form
for every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of
the industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste.
         (b)   The form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected
waste constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH
§ 51.035 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N,
Parts 405 to 471 inclusive, herein incorporated by reference, as promulgated by
the USEPA pursuant to the Act, shall be met by all IUs of the regulated
industrial categories. An application for modification of the National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards may be considered for submittal to the
Regional Administrator by the District, when the District’s wastewater
treatment system achieves consistent removal of the pollutants as defined by 40
C.F.R. § 403.7.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.036 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges to the POTW shall be met by
all IUs which are subject to such standards in any instance in which they are
more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or those in this or
any other applicable chapter.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.037 SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The District is authorized to establish local limits pursuant to
40 C.F.R. Part 403.5(c).
      (2)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against
pass through and interference.
      (3)   No person, including any IU shall discharge wastewater containing
in excess of the following limits:
Parameter Daily Maximum Limit (mg/L)
Parameter                       Daily Maximum Limit (mg/L)
Ammonia                         134
Arsenic, total                  1.31
Bis (2- ethyl -hexyl) Phthalate 1.03
Chromium, total                 7.0
Copper, total                   0.88
Cyanide, available              0.019
Fluoride                        30
Lead, total                     2.28
Mercury, total                  0.0002
Molybdenum, total               2.8
Nickel, total                   0.80
Phenols                         0.96
Phosphorus                      31
Total oil and grease            117
Zinc, total                     5.5
 
   (B)   (1)   Existing IUs shall not discharge wastewater containing in excess
of the above limitations beyond the specified compliance date contained in the
wastewater discharge permit. New IUs shall be in compliance with the above
limitations upon the commencement of discharge.
      (2)   The limitations specified above shall apply to representative
samples taken of the sample type specified in the permit. The above limits
shall apply at the point where the wastewater is discharged to the POTW. All
concentrations for metallic substances are for total metal unless indicated
otherwise. The District may impose mass limitations in addition to the
concentration-based limitations above.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.038 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The District reserves the right to amend this chapter or, through individual
wastewater discharge permits, to provide for more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW where deemed necessary to comply with
the objectives set forth in §§
51.001 through
51.005.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.039 DILUTION.
   No IU shall ever increase the use of potable or process water in any way,
nor mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a discharge as a
partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance
with the standards set forth in this chapter. The District may impose mass
limitations on users who are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements or in other cases when the imposition of mass
limitations is appropriate
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.040 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each IU, at its cost or expense, shall provide protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited or regulated materials or substances
established by this chapter and shall establish and maintain facilities and
procedures to prevent such discharge. Detailed plans showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the
District for review, and shall be approved by the District before construction
of the facility.
   (B)   Each existing IU shall complete its plan and submit same to the
District within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter. The District may
complete such plan for any IU who fails to do so at the IU’s expense.
   (C)   An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall conform to
the requirements of §§
51.088 and
51.109.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
FEES
§ 51.055 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the payment of fees from
IUs to the POTW, to compensate the District for the cost of administration of
the Pretreatment Program established herein.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.056 CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The city, upon recommendation of the District, shall adopt charges and
fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures,
including the cost of collection and analyzing a user’s discharge, and
reviewing monitoring reports and certification statements submitted by IUs;
      (2)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications in accordance
with §
51.057, including the cost of processing such applications;
      (3)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (4)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction
permits; and
      (5)   Other fees as the District and city may deem necessary to carry out
the requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties chargeable by the city
or the District.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.057 PERMIT APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   The permit application fee for existing IUs will be calculated based
upon 1% of the monthly average (based upon the 12-month period prior to the
month of receipt of the permit application) sewer user billings for each
discharge location.
   (B)   A minimum application fee of $25 per discharge location will be
assessed. A maximum application fee of $500 per discharge location will be
assessed. New IUs completing permit applications will be assessed an initial
permit application fee of $500.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
PERMITS, REPORTING, MONITORING, AND INSPECTIONS
§ 51.070 PRETREATMENT.
   IUs shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to comply with
this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all applicable pretreatment
standards within the time limitations specified by USEPA, the state, or the
District, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance
shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the IU’s expense. Detailed plans
describing such facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
District for review, and shall be acceptable to the District before such
facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and operating procedures
shall in no way relieve the IU from the responsibility of modifying such
facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the District under
the provisions of this chapter. All new IUs shall install and start up all
pollution control equipment necessary to comply with all applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements, and shall achieve compliance
immediately upon the commencement of discharge. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
acceptable to the District prior to installation of the changes.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.071 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(1), it shall be unlawful for an IU to
discharge sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes to any sewer within the
jurisdiction of the District without a permit issued by the District.
   (B)   The District reserves the right to deny or condition a new
contribution of pollutants, an increased contribution of pollutants, or any
change in the nature of contributed pollutants to the POTW by any IU, where
such contribution does not or will not meet applicable pretreatment standards
and requirements, or where such contribution would cause the District to
violate its NPDES Permit.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 51.085 GENERAL.
   (A)   All IUs proposing to connect to the POTW or to discharge sewage,
industrial wastes, and other wastes to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater
discharge permit before connecting to or discharging to the POTW.
   (B)   All existing IUs connected to or discharging to the POTW shall be
issued a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the receipt of the
permit application.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.086 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   All IUs shall complete and file with the District a permit application
therefore in the form prescribed by the District. Proposed new IUs shall apply
at least 90 days prior to connecting to the POTW.
   (B)   No discharge permit shall be issued unless and until the following
conditions have been met:
      (1)   The name and address of the facility, including the name of the
operator and owner, location of the facility and contact information,
description of activities, facilities, and plant production processes on the
premises;
      (2)   Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) number according to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Office of Management and Budget,
1987, as amended;
      (3)   A list of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility.
      (4)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production
(including each product produced by type, amount, processes, and rate of
production), and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such IU. This description should include a schematic process
diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes.
      (5)   Disclosure of wastewater constituents and characteristics
including, but not limited to, those mentioned in this chapter as determined by
bona fide chemical and biological analyses. Sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the USEPA and contained
in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, as amended;
      (6)   Description of operations including:
         (a)   Types of wastes generated, and a list of all raw materials and
chemicals used or stored at the facility which are, or could accidentally or
intentionally be, discharged to the POTW;
         (b)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and propose:
            1.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed
or actual hours of operation;
            2.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and
maximum per day);
            3.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location,
and elevation, and all points of discharge;
         (c)   Time and duration of discharges;
         (d)   The location for monitoring all wastes covered by the permit;
         (e)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in § 2.2C (40 C.F.R. 403.6(e));
         (f)   Measurement of pollutants.
            1.   The Categorical Pretreatment Standards applicable to each
regulated process and any new categorically regulated processes for existing
sources.
            2.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature
and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the Standard or by the
District, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
            3.   Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average
concentrations, or mass, where required, shall be reported.
            4.   The sample shall be representative of daily operations and
shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in this chapter. Where
the standard requires compliance with a BMP or pollution prevention
alternative, the IU shall submit documentation as required by the District or
the applicable standards to determine compliance with the standard.
         (g)   Disclosure of the nature and concentration of any pollutants or
materials prohibited by this chapter in the discharge, together with a
statement regarding whether or not compliance is being achieved with this
chapter on a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance activities and/or additional pretreatment is required for the IU to
comply with this chapter.
         (h)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the District
to evaluate the permit application.
         (i)   Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance
activities will be required to comply with this chapter, the IU shall provide a
declaration of the shortest schedule by which the IU will provide such
additional pretreatment and/or implementation of additional operational and
maintenance activities.
            1.   The schedule shall contain milestone dates for the
commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the IU to comply with the
requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to, dates relating to
hiring an engineer, hiring other appropriate personnel, completing preliminary
plans, completing final plans, executing contract for major components,
commencing construction, and all other acts necessary to achieve compliance
with this chapter.
            2.   Under no circumstance shall the District permit a time
increment for any single step directed toward compliance which exceeds nine
months.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each milestone date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the IU shall submit a progress
report to the District, including no less than a statement as to whether or not
it complied with the increment of progress represented by that milestone date
and, if not, the date on which it expects to comply with this increment of
progress, the reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the IU to return
the construction to the approved schedule. In no event shall more than nine
months elapse between such progress reports to the District.
         (j)   1.   All wastewater discharge permit applications, IU reports,
and certification statements must be signed by an authorized representative of
the IU and contain the certification statement in §
51.120.
            2.   If the designation of an authorized representative is no
longer accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility
for the overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for
environmental matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying
the requirements of this section must be submitted to the District prior to or
together with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.087 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The District may modify or amend any wastewater discharge permit
issued under this chapter for good cause, including but not limited to the
following reasons:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the IU’s
operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character since the time of the
individual wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the District’s POTW, District personnel, or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the individual wastewater
discharge permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from Categorical Pretreatment
Standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the individual
wastewater discharge permit; or
      (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership or operation to a
new owner or operator where requested in accordance with § 13.13.5.02.6.
   (B)   Within 90 days of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater discharge permit of each IU subject to
said Standard shall be revised to require compliance with said Standard within
the time period prescribed by said Standard. All Categorical Pretreatment
Standards adopted after the promulgation of this chapter shall be adopted by
the District as part of this chapter. Where an IU, subject to a Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, has not previously submitted an application for a
wastewater discharge permit as required by this chapter, the IU shall apply for
a wastewater discharge permit from the District within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard by the USEPA.
In addition, an IU with an existing wastewater discharge permit shall submit to
the District within 180 days after the promulgation of an applicable
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, the information required by §
51.086 divisions (B)(6)(h) and (B)(6)(i) of §
51.086.
      (1)   Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
      (2)   In no case, however, shall said schedule allow for any extension
beyond the final date for compliance established for a Categorical Pretreatment
Standard.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.088 PERMIT CONDITIONS REQUIRED.
   Wastewater discharge permits shall specify no less than the following:
   (A)   Fees and charges to be paid upon the initial permit issuance;
   (B)   An identification number which correlates to the discharge location
being regulated by the permit;
   (C)   Permit issuance, effective and expiration dates;
   (D)   Effluent limitations and expiration dates;
   (E)   Requirement to control slug discharge in accordance with 40 C.F.R. §
403.8(f)(iii)(1)(B)(6) if determined to be necessary by the District;
   (F)   Record keeping requirements in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)
(iii)(1)(B)(4);
   (G)   For those IUs requiring a pretreatment plant or construction or
installation of facilities or equipment to process wastewater prior to
discharge to the District, the requirement for such facilities to be under the
control of a qualified operator certified pursuant to the provision of 327
I.A.C. § 5-22-1, et seq.;
   (H)   Special conditions as the District may reasonably require under
particular circumstances of a given discharge including sampling locations,
frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for tests and reporting
schedules;
   (I)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment, including flow measurement devices;
   (J)   A statement that compliance with the individual wastewater discharge
permit does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the individual wastewater discharge permit;
and
   (K)   Compliance schedules, if necessary;
   (L)   Submission of special technical reports or discharge report where same
differ from those prescribed by this chapter when requested by the District;
   (M)   Statement of permit duration pursuant to §
51.090;
   (N)   Statement of permit non-transferability pursuant to §
51.091;
   (O)   Statement of applicable enforcement actions pursuant to §§
51.135 through
51.147; and
   (P)   Statement of applicable penalties for non-compliance pursuant to §
51.999.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.089 PERMIT CONDITIONS ALLOWED.
   Individual wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited
to, the following conditions:
   (A)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
   (B)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW;
   (C)   Requirements for the development and implementation of spill control
plans or other special conditions including management practices necessary to
adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated, or non-routine discharges;
   (D)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
   (E)   The unit charge or schedule of IU charges and fees for the management
of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
   (F)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the District to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.090 PERMIT DURATION.
   All wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a period not to exceed
five years from the effective date of the permit, subject to amendment or
revocation as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.091 LIMITATIONS ON PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   (1)   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific IU for a
specific operation and are not assignable to another IU or transferable to any
other location, without the prior written approval of the District.
      (2)   Individual wastewater discharge permits may be transferred to a new
owner or operator only if the permittee gives at least 60 days advance notice
to the District and the District approves the individual wastewater discharge
permit transfer.
   (B)   The notice to the District must include a written certification by the
new owner or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator have no immediate intent
to change the facility’s operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
   (C)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the individual
wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility transfer.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.092 PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   (A)   An IU with an expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall
apply for individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a
complete permit application, in accordance with §
51.086, a minimum of 45 days prior to the expiration of the IU’s existing
individual wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   If the IU has filed a timely application for permit renewal, but ECSD
has not reissued a permit, through no fault on the part of the IU, the time of
expiration shall be extended.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEES
§ 51.105 COMPLIANCE DATE REPORT.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any IU subject to
such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the District a
report containing the information described in §
51.086 divisions (B)(6)(i) and (B)(6)(j)and §
51.107(B)(2), For IUs subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in §
51.035 (See 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c)), this report shall contain a reasonable
measure of the user’s long-term production rate. For all other IUs subject to
Categorical Pretreatment Standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant
discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report
shall include the IU’s actual production during the appropriate sampling
period. All compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
51.120. All sampling will be done in conformance with §
51.119. The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional O
& M and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the IU into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement shall be
signed by an authorized representative of the IU, and certified by a qualified
professional engineer licensed to practice in the state.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.106 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All categorical IUs (CIUs) must, at a frequency determined by the
District submit no less than twice per year (June and December) or on other
dates specified by the District reports indicating the nature, concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a best
management practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the CIU must
submit documentation required by the District or the pretreatment standard
necessary to determine the compliance status of the CIU. All periodic
compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with §
51.120.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the CIU’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a CIU to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the CIU to claim that sample results are unrepresentative of
its discharge. If a CIU subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any regulated pollutant at the appropriate sampling location more
frequently than required by the District, using the procedures prescribed in §
51.119, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.107 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS (BMRS).
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing CIUs
currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit to
the District a report which contains the information listed in division (B)
below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their discharge, new sources,
and sources that become CIUs subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard, shall submit to the District a report which contains the
information listed in division (B) below. A new source shall report the method
of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A
new source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of
pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   CIUs described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   All information required in §
51.086 divisions (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), (B)(6)(c), (B)(6)(d), (B)(6)(f),, and
(B)(6)(i),(See 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)(1)-(7)).
      (2)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The CIU shall provide the information required in §
51.086 (j) (i) through (iv).
         (b)   The CIU shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this section.
         (c)   Samples should be collected immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment the CIU should measure the
flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream
formula in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e) to evaluated compliance with the pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with
supporting data shall be submitted to the control authority.
         (d)   The CIU shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this section.
         (e)   Samples should be collected immediately downstream from
pretreatment facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the
regulated process if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed
with the regulated wastewater prior to pretreatment the CIU should measure the
flows and concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream
formula in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e) to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with
supporting data shall be submitted to the control authority;
         (f)   Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with §
51.119;
         (g)   The District may allow the submission of a baseline report which
utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides information
sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment measures;
         (h)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date, and place of
sampling and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
      (3)   Compliance certification. A statement, reviewed by the CIU’s
authorized representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if
not, whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (4)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
CIU will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M must be provided. The
completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date
established for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule
pursuant to this section must meet the requirements set out in §
51.108.
      (5)   Signature and report certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be certified in accordance with §
51.120 of this chapter and signed by an authorized representative.
   (C)   In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with best
management practices (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the CIU must
submit documentation required by the District or the pretreatment standard
necessary to determine the compliance status of the CIU.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.108 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the IU to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation).
   (B)   No increment referred to in division (A) above shall exceed nine
months.
   (C)   The IU shall submit a progress report to the District no later than 14
days following each date in the schedule and the final date of compliance
including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps being taken
by the IU to return to the established schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the District.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.109 SPILL/SLUG LOAD CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   (1)   In each case where the District has required an industrial user
to file a spill/slug load control plan, such SIU shall submit to the District,
on a biennial basis, a plan for the prevention of slug loads or accidental
discharges of substances to the POTW.
      (2)   Each SIU shall notify the District immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the spill control plan or the potential for a slug
discharge. Said plan shall contain no less than the following:
         (a)   A description of discharge practices, including non-routine
batch discharges;
         (b)   A description of all chemicals stored on-site;
         (c)   A procedure for immediately notifying the District in the event
of a slug load or other accidental discharge, with procedures for follow-up
written notification within five days of the event; and
         (d)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental or slug
discharges, including but not limited to inspection and maintenance of storage
areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations,
control of site runoff, worker training, building of containment structures or
equipment, measures for containing toxic organic pollutants (including
solvents), and/or measures and equipment for emergency response.
   (B)   No IU who discharges to the POTW shall be permitted to introduce
pollutants into the system until accidental discharge protection procedures
have been approved by the District review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures by the District shall not relieve the IU from the
responsibility to modify its facility as necessary to meet the requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.110 HAZARDOUS WASTE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any IU who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify the
POTW, the USEPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261, the USEPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the IU discharges more than
100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the notification
also shall contain the following information to the extent such information is
known and readily available to the IU: an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharged during that
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this paragraph need be submitted only once
for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed
conditions must be submitted under § 6.5 of this chapter. The notification
requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already reported by
IUs subject to categorical pretreatment standards under the self-monitoring
requirements of this section and §§
51.105 and
51.108.
   (B)   IUs are exempt from the requirements of division (A), above, during a
calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of hazardous
wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R.
§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of non-acute
hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a one-time
notification. Subsequent months during which the IU discharges more than such
quantities of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA, being 42
U.S.C. § 6921, identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or
listing any additional substance as a hazardous waste, the IU must notify the
District, the USEPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and
state hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90
days of the effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the IU shall
certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of
hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically
practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.111 SPECIAL REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR IUS.
   The following reporting requirements shall be observed by any IU which has
been directed by the District to implement a program of self-monitoring.
   (A)   Any increase or decrease of 20% in discharge volume, based on an
average of the preceding 12 months; and
   (B)   The addition, reduction, or removal of any pollutant, including all
hazardous substances pursuant to §
51.089;
   (C)   (1)   The following certification statement shall be included in the
report:
I certify under the penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel property gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.
      (2)   The certification statement shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the IU, as defined in §
51.005.
   (D)   Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. Part 403.12(g)(5), each IU, when submitting the
report required by §
51.086, shall include in said report the results of any sampling and analysis
which the IU has voluntarily performed beyond that required by the District.
   (E)   Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. Part 403.12(g)(2), and if sampling by an IU
indicates a violation, said IU shall inform the District within 24 hours of
becoming aware of the violation. Said IU shall also repeat sampling and
analysis, and shall submit the results of the repeat analysis within 30 days of
becoming aware of the violation. This requirement to repeat sampling and
analysis shall be waived where the IU is required to sample at least once per
month, or where the District samples the IU’s waste stream before the IU
receives the analytical results of its own sampling.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.112 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each IU must notify the District of any significant changes to the
IU’s operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or volume of
its wastewater at least 30 days before the change.
   (B)   The District may require the IU to submit such information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a wastewater discharge permit application under §
51.086.
   (C)   The District may issue an individual wastewater discharge permit under
§
51.092 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
51.087 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.113 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, a slug discharge, or slug load, that might cause
potential problems for the POTW, the IU shall immediately telephone and notify
the District of the incident. This notification shall include the location of
the discharge, type of waste, concentration, and volume, if known, and
corrective actions taken by the IU.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the IU shall, unless waived
by the District, submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of
the discharge and the measures to be taken by the IU to prevent similar future
occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the IU of any expense, loss,
damage, or other liability which might be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall
such notification relieve the IU of any fines, penalties, or other liability
which maybe imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the IU’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees who to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who could cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (D)   SIUs are required to notify the District immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for a slug discharge.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.114 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED IUS.
   All IUs not required to obtain an individual wastewater discharge permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the District as the District may require.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.115 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by an IU indicates a violation, the IU must
notify the District within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
   (B)   The IU shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the District within 30 days after becoming
aware of the violation.
   (C)   Resampling by the IU is not required if the District performs sampling
at the IU’s facility at least once a month, or if the District performs
sampling at the IU between the time when the initial sampling was conducted and
the time when the IU or the District receives the results of this sampling.
   (D)   If the District has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the
IU, the District shall perform the repeat sampling and analysis.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.116 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTION AND MONITORING.
   (A)   The District shall have the right to enter the premises of any IU to
determine whether the IU is complying with all requirements of this subchapter
and any individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder. IUs
shall allow the District ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the
performance of any additional duties.
   (B)   Where a IU has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the IU shall make
necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation of
suitable identification, the District shall be permitted to enter without delay
for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   (C)   The District shall have the right to set up on the IU’s property, or
require installation of, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/
or metering of the IU’s operations.
   (D)   The District may require the IU to install monitoring equipment,
including meters and any other sampling equipment the District deems
appropriate, as necessary. The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment
shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by
the IU at its own expense.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the District and shall not be replaced. The
costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the District access to the user’s
premises shall be a violation of this subchapter.
   (G)   (1)   Each IU shall provide and operate at their own expense, a
monitoring facility to allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of each
sewer discharge to the District. Each monitoring facility shall be situated on
the IU’s premises, except where such a location would be impractical or cause
undue hardship on the IU.
      (2)   The District may concur with the facility being constructed in the
public street or sidewalk area providing that the facility is located so that
it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles. There shall be
ample room in or near said sampling facility to allow accurate sampling,
representative of the discharge, and preparation of samples for analysis.
      (3)   To ensure accurate flow measurement, the District reserves the
right to require the discharger to install a flow measuring device of the
District’s choosing. Said flow measuring device shall be property of the
District. The facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the IU.
All monitoring facilities shall be constructed and maintained in accordance
with all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 120 days of receipt of the wastewater
discharge permit by the IU.
      (4)   Calibration and maintenance must be performed on the approved flow
measuring and recording equipment in accordance with the recommendation of the
manufacturer, but no less frequently than one time per year. The permittee
shall submit to the District, during the months of April and October, a report
verifying calibration and maintenance of said measuring and recording
equipment.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.117 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The IU shall allow the District or its representatives, upon presentation of
credentials of identification, to enter upon the premises of the IU at all
reasonable hours for the purposes of inspection, sampling, or records
examination. The IU shall allow the District to inspect and copy any and all
records pertaining to pretreatment. The District shall have the right to set up
on the IU’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling
inspection, compliance monitoring, and/or metering operations.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.118 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data furnished to the District with respect to the
nature and frequency of discharge shall be available to the public or other
governmental agency without restriction unless the IU specifically requests and
is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the District that the release of
such information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets or proprietary information of the IU
under applicable state law or the laws of the United States. Such request shall
be asserted at the time of the submission of the information or data to the
District.
   (B)   When requested by an IU furnishing a report, the portions of a report
which may disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES
permit, state disposal system permit, and/or the pretreatment program;
provided, however, that such portions of a report shall be available for use by
the state or any other state agency in civil judicial review or enforcement
proceedings involving the IU furnishing the report.
   (C)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (D)   Information accepted by the District as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency (the USEPA and IDEM excepted) or to the
general public unless and until a ten-day prior notification is given to the
IU.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.119 SAMPLE COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   (1)   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be
submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall
be performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. Part 136
and amendments thereto, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard.
      (2)   If 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the USEPA determines that
the Part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses shall be performed by using
validated analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical
procedures, including procedures suggested by the District or other parties
approved by USEPA. IUs shall collect representative samples using 24-hour, flow
proportional composite sampling techniques, time-proportional sampling, or grab
sampling in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(g)(3) and (4).
      (3)   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based
on data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the
period covered by the report, based on data that is representative of
conditions occurring during the reporting period.
   (B)   (1)   Except as indicated in divisions (C) and (D) below, the IU must
collect wastewater samples using 24-hour flow-proportional composite sampling
techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the District.
      (2)   Where time-proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is
authorized by the District, the samples must be representative of the
discharge.
      (3)   Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in
40 C.F.R. Part 136 and appropriate USEPA guidance, multiple grab samples
collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as
follows: for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited
in the laboratory or in the field; for volatile organics and oil and grease,
the samples may be composited in the laboratory.
      (4)   Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the
compositing procedures as documented in approved USEPA methodologies may be
authorized by the District as appropriate. In addition, grab samples maybe
required to show compliance with instantaneous limits.
   (C)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, total phenols,
sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
   (D)   (1)   For sampling required in support of baseline monitoring and 90-
day compliance reports required in §§
51.105 and
51.107 (40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (d)), a minimum of four grab samples must be
used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile
organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do not
exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the
District may authorize a lower minimum.
      (2)   For the reports required by §
51.106 (40 C.F.R. §§ 403.12(e) and 403.12(h)), the IU is required to collect
the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.120 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATIONS.
   The following certification statement is required to be signed and submitted
by IUs submitting permit applications in accordance with §
51.086, IUs submitting baseline monitoring reports under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(1),
IUs submitting reports on compliance with the categorical pretreatment standard
deadlines under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(d), IUs submitting periodic compliance
reports required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e) and (h), and IUs submitting an
initial request to forego sampling of a pollutant on the basis of 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(e)(2)(iii). The following certification statement must be signed by an
authorized representative.
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.121 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the District has been refused access to a building, structure, or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need
to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
of the District designed to verify compliance with this subchapter or any
permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety, and welfare of the community, the District may seek issuance of an
administrative search warrant from the Circuit or Superior Court of the county.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.135 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF SERVICE AND DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   The District may immediately suspend an IU’s discharge, after informal
notice to the IU, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge, which reasonably appears to present, or cause an imminent
or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The District
may also immediately suspend an IU’s discharge, after notice and opportunity to
respond, that threatens to interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which
presents, or may present, an endangerment to the environment.
   (B)   Any IU notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of an IU’s failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the District may take
such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment to any individuals. The District may allow the IU to recommence
its discharge when the IU has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the District
that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings
in §
51.136 are initiated against the IU.
   (C)   An IU that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the District prior to the date of any show
cause or termination hearing under §
51.136.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.136 REVOCATION OF PERMIT OR TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The District may revoke an individual wastewater discharge permit or
terminate the discharge of an IU for good cause, including, but not limited to,
the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the District of significant changes to the
wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the District of changed
conditions pursuant to this chapter;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the District timely access to the facility
premises and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business
ownership of a permitted facility; or
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (B)   Such IU will be notified of the proposed revocation or termination of
its discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
51.138 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by
the District shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the IU. Individual wastewater discharge permits shall be
voidable upon cessation of operations or transfer of business ownership. All
individual wastewater discharge permits issued to an IU are void upon the
issuance of a new individual wastewater discharge permit to that IU.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.137 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   When the District finds that an IU has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
District may serve upon that IU a written notice of violation. Within 15 days
of the receipt of such notice, an explanation of the violation and a compliance
plan for the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include
specific required actions, shall be submitted by the IU to the District.
Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the IU of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the District to take any
action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action, without
first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.138 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The District may order any IU which has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this subchapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to
appear before the Director of Utilities or his or her designee and show cause
why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served
on the IU specifying the time and place for the meeting, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the IU show
cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of
the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days prior to the hearing. Such notice
may be served on any authorized representative of the IU. A show cause hearing
shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the IU. The proceedings at the hearing shall be considered by the
Director of Utilities or his designee who shall then enter appropriate orders
with respect to the alleged improper activities of the IU. Appeal of such
orders may be taken by the IU in accordance with applicable local or state law.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.139 ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   In the event of conduct by an IU which is contrary to any requirement or
provision of this chapter, the District may issue the following orders:
   (A)   Cease and desist orders. When the District finds that an IU has
violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the IU’s past violations are
likely to recur, the District may issue an order to the IU directing it to
cease and desist all such violations and directing the IU to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge. Issuance of a cease and
desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the IU.
   (B)   Compliance orders. When the District finds that an IU has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard
or requirement, the District may issue an order to the IU responsible for the
discharge directing that the IU come into compliance within a specified time.
If the IU does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer service
may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders
also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance, including
additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to minimize the
amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order may not extend
the deadline for compliance established for a pretreatment standard or
requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the IU of liability for any
violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order
shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the IU.
   (C)   Consent orders. The District may enter into consent orders, assurances
of compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any IU
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents shall include specific action to
be taken by the IU to correct the noncompliance within a time period specified
by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) above, and shall
be subject to civil judicial enforcement. Consent orders may require the
achievement of total compliance through adherence to a schedule of activities
the contents of which shall be negotiated by the District and the IU, or their
designated representatives. Any administrative order issued pursuant to this
section shall require the cessation of all discharges in the event of failure
by the IU to achieve total compliance by the final date for compliance stated
in said order.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.140 JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS.
   When the District finds that an IU has violated, or continues to violate,
any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit, or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, the
District may petition the Circuit or Superior Court of the county, or the
United States District Court if federal jurisdiction is available, through the
District’s Attorney for the issuance of a temporary restraining order, and
preliminary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels
the specific performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit, order,
or other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the IU. The
District may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/or
equitable relief, including a requirement for the conduct environmental
remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against an IU, but the District may
join petitions for other relief or for fines or civil penalties to the extent
allowed by this chapter to any complaint or petition for injunctive relief
brought hereunder. The District may recover reasonable attorney fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including
sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred
by the District.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.141 OPERATING UPSETS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, upset means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
IU. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational
error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment
facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C) below are met.
   (C)   An IU who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the IU can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The IU has submitted the following information to the District
within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is provided
orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (4)   In any enforcement proceeding, the IU seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (5)   IUs shall have the opportunity for a civil judicial determination
on any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance
with categorical pretreatment standards.
      (6)   IUs shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.142 BYPASSES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BYPASS means the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion
of an IU’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE means substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   An IU may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   Bypass notifications:
      (1)   If an IU knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall submit
prior notice to the District, at least ten days before the date of the bypass,
if possible.
      (2)   An IU shall submit oral notice to the District of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24 hours from the
time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall also be
provided within five days of the time the IU becomes aware of the bypass. The
written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
The District may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral
report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   Bypass:
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the District may take an enforcement
action against an IU for a bypass, unless
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The IU submitted notices as required under division (C) above.
      (2)   The District may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering
its adverse effects, if the District determines that it will meet the three
conditions listed in division (D)(1) above.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.143 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   An IU shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general and specific prohibitions in §
51.020 if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its
discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would
cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the IU was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the IU’s prior discharge when the District was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.144 REMEDIES NON-EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
District may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant IU.
   (B)   Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance
with the District’s enforcement response plan. However, the District may take
other action against any IU when the circumstances warrant. Further, the
District is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any
noncompliant IU.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.145 ENFORCEMENT ESCALATION.
   (A)   The District may escalate enforcement actions against IUs who are non-
compliant with the District’s administrative orders specified in §
51.139, or the standards and limits contained in this chapter.
   (B)   The District shall impose progressively higher penalties or more
stringent controls on an IU who:
      (1)   Displays repeated inability or unwillingness to meet a limitation
or standard imposed by its discharge permit or this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to comply for less than good reason with consent orders to
which it agreed; and/or
      (3)   Engages in misleading, obstructive, or affirmative misconduct in
attempting to shield its activities in violation of this chapter or its
discharge permit from detection, examination, or scrutiny by the District.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.146 NONCOMPLIANCE HEARING.
   Pursuant to §§
51.037 and
51.090, and in the event that an IU is in a state of non-compliance upon the
commencement or during the course of discharge, the District shall convene a
hearing with the IU to determine the cause or causes of non-compliance. A
written notice shall be served on the IU by personal service, certified or
registered, return receipt requested, specifying the time and place of the
hearing, the reason or reasons for the hearing, and directing the IU to
disclose the reason or reasons for non-compliance. Service may be made on an
authorized representative of the IU. The proceedings at the hearing shall be
considered by the District which shall then enter appropriate orders with
respect to non-compliance. If, in the District’s judgment, the non-compliance
is shown to have been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the IU, the
District may append to the IU’s wastewater discharge permit a compliance
schedule and order the IU to achieve compliance with the conditions of its
permit within the time frame stated by the schedule. In no case shall the time
period allowed for any compliance schedule exceed 90 days following the
commencement of discharge or beyond a statutory deadline under the Federal
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, whichever is shorter. If, in the District’s
judgment, the non-compliance is shown to have been caused by circumstances
within the IU’s control, the District may issue an administrative order
pursuant to §
51.139, and may assess any and all appropriate penalties pursuant to §
51.999. Should the IU fail to comply with said order, the District may commence
formal enforcement proceedings pursuant to applicable sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.147 PUBLICATION OF IUS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The District shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice in the city, a list of the
IUs which, at any time during the previous 12 months, were in significant
noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (B)   The term significant noncompliance shall be applicable to all SIUs (or
any other IU that violates divisions (B)(3), (B)(4), and (B)(8) below and shall
mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits as defined
in §
51.005;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, as
defined in §
51.005 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils, and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined in §
51.005 (daily maximum, long-term average. Instantaneous limit, or narrative
standard) that the District determines has caused, alone or in combination with
other discharges, interference or pass through, including endangering the
health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the District’s exercise
of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in an individual wastewater discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 45 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on compliance with
categorical pretreatment standard deadlines, periodic self-monitoring reports,
and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (8)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (9)   Any other violation, which may include a violation of best
management practices, which the District determines will adversely affect the
operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND PROVISIONS
§ 51.160 RECORDKEEPING.
   IUs subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall retain, and
make available for inspection and copying, all records of information obtained
pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this subchapter, any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the IU independent of such requirements, and documentation
associated with best management practices. Records shall include the date,
exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking
the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the analyses; the
analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such analyses. These
records shall remain available for a period of at least three years. This
period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any litigation
concerning the IU or the District, or where the IU has been specifically
notified of a longer retention period by the District.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.161 REMOVAL CREDITS.
   Where applicable, the District may elect to initiate a program of removal
credits as part of this chapter to reflect the POTWs ability to remove
pollutants in accordance with 40 C.F.R. Part 403.7.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.162 NET/GROSS CALCULATION.
   The District may elect to adjust National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
to reflect the presence of pollutants in an IU’s intake water in accordance
with 40 C.F.R., Part 403.15.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.163 COMBINED WASTESTREAMS.
   Where the process effluent of IUs is mixed prior to treatment with
wastewaters other than those generated by the regulated process, fixed
alternative discharge limits may be derived by the District or by the
industrial user with the written concurrence of the District. These alternative
limits shall be applied to the mixed effluent. The method, formulae,
application, and limitations for deriving such limits shall be strictly
governed by the provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e), the provisions of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.164 CONVERSION TO EQUIVALENT MASS OR CONCENTRATION LIMITS.
   (A)   Pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), when the limits in a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard are expressed only in terms of mass of
pollutant per unit of production, the District may elect to convert the limits
to equivalent limitations expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per
day or effluent concentration for purposes of calculating effluent limitations
applicable to individual IUs.
   (B)   IUs for which the District has calculated equivalent limitations shall
be required to comply with said equivalent limitations in lieu of the
promulgated National Categorical Pretreatment Standards from which the
equivalent limitations were derived.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.165 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   New sewer connections shall meet the following requirements, at a minimum.
   (A)   No new combined sewers shall be constructed within the City Sanitary
District service area.
   (B)   All new construction tributary to the existing combined sewer system
shall be designed to minimize or delay inflow/clear water contribution to the
sewer.
   (C)   Any new building constructed shall provide a separate inflow/clear
water connection to a combined sewer from the sanitary waste connection to
facilitate disconnection of the former if a separate storm sewer becomes
available.
   (D)   The introduction of inflow/clear water to any sanitary sewer is
prohibited.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event that an IU is found to have violated an order of the
District, has failed to comply with any provision of this chapter, the
regulations or rules of the District, or permits issued hereunder, the District
may find that an offense has occurred and impose monetary penalty of not less
than $1,000 nor more than the amount listed below for each offense, or if not
listed, then an amount not to exceed $7,500 for each offense. Unless otherwise
specified below, each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
Nature of Violation/Exceedance Penalty
Nature of Violation/Exceedance                                                Penalty
Exceedance of local limit                                                      
Discharger with average daily flow of 0-10,000 gpd                            $1,000
Discharger with average daily flow of 10,001-25,000 gpd                       Up to
                                                                              $1,500
Discharger with average daily flow of25,001-50,000 gpd                        Up to
                                                                              $2,000
Discharger with average daily flow greater than 50,000                        Up to
                                                                              $2,500
Exceedance of Categorical Standard                                            Up to
                                                                              $2,500
Discharges of prohibited substances or unauthorized discharge
Discharger with average daily flow of 0-10,000 gpd                            $1,000
Discharger with average daily flow of 10,001-25,000 gpd                       Up to
                                                                              $1,500
Discharger with average daily flow of 25,001-50,000 gpd                       Up to
                                                                              $2,000
Discharger with average daily flow greater than 50,000 gpd                    Up to
                                                                              $2,500
Failure to submit discharge volume reports, within five business days of
stated due date (due date is the tenth day of the month, unless due date      $1,000
falls on Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, then due date is next business
day) per day thereafter until report is received
Failure to submit other required reports, within five business days of stated $1,000
due date
Failure to meet compliance schedule milestone, per day, until milestone       Up to
requirement is satisfied                                                      $2,500
Falsification of submitted information                                        Up to
                                                                              $2,500
Discharge which causes an incident of upset, interference, or pollutant pass- Up to
through at the POTW                                                           $2,500
Discharge which results in actual or potential threat to POTW, its personnel, Up to
the general public, the environment, or the quality of the POTW’s sludge    $2,500
Discharge which causes any condition of imminent danger                       Up to
                                                                              $2,500
 
   (B)   Recovery of costs incurred by the district. Any IU violating any of
the provisions of this chapter, or who discharges or causes a discharge
producing an obstruction, or causes damage to or impairs the District’s
wastewater disposal system shall be liable to the District for any expense,
loss, or damage caused by such violation or discharge. The District may bill
the IU for the costs incurred by the District for any cleaning, repair,
replacement, or other work caused by the violation or discharge. Refusal to pay
the assessed costs shall constitute a violation of this chapter enforceable
under the provisions of §§
51.135 through
51.147 and 51.999.
   (C)   Falsifying information. Any person who knowingly makes any false
statement, representation, or certification in any application, record, report,
plan, or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter or wastewater discharge permit issued under or by the authority of this
chapter, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any
monitoring device or method of sampling, measurement, or monitoring required
under this chapter commits a violation thereof and shall, upon conviction, be
punished by the imposition of a civil penalty of not more than $7,500 for each
offense under this section. In addition, such person may be subject to criminal
prosecution, punishable as a misdemeanor or felony under the laws of the state
(I.C. 13-30-10-1.5) and the United States (18 U.S.C, § 1621, inter alia). The
District may refer any incident of violation of this section to the County
Prosecuting Attorney or the United States Attorney for the Northern District of
the state for possible criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 18-0017, passed 11-13-2018)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Water system, generally
   
52.002   Pollution
   
52.003   Use of groundwater as potable water supply
Department of Water Works
   
52.015   Continued; Board of Trustees
   
52.016   Adoption of state law
   
52.017   Personnel
   
52.018   Records; supervision
   
52.019   Notice to Department prior to sale of property
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 WATER SYSTEM, GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person, without proper authority, to tamper with or
open or close any valve or to connect any hose, pipe, or tube with or to any
part of the waterworks system, operated within the city, without first
receiving a permit from the Department of Water Works to do so, or in any other
way or manner to injure or interfere with the water source or supply of the
city or any apparatus pertaining thereto, or to leave the water supply running
when not necessary.
(Prior Code, § 52.01) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.002 POLLUTION.
   It is unlawful to put any filth into any cistern, reservoir, trough, or
other place in which water may be kept which belongs to the city or to any
individual therein or in any manner to injure the same.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.003 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited.
   (B)   Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective date
of this chapter, the use or attempted use as a potable water supply of
groundwater from within the corporate limits of the city by the installation or
drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents, or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. For purposes of this chapter, any water used for human or
domestic consumption, including, but not limited to, water used for drinking,
bathing, swimming, washing dishes, or preparing foods.
(Ord. 20-0013, passed 8-24-2020) Penalty, see §
52.999
DEPARTMENT OF WATER WORKS
§ 52.015 CONTINUED; BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   Since 1921, the Department of Water Works has been operated continuously by
the city as a municipal public utility and there is continued the establishment
of the Department of Water Works as an executive department of the city. The
Department shall be under the jurisdiction, charge, management, and control of
a Board of Trustees which shall be composed in a manner and shall be appointed
in a number and manner as may be provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 52.15)
§ 52.016 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The Department of Water Works is authorized to accept and to be regulated
under the provisions of I.C. 36-9-35.
(Prior Code, § 52.16)
§ 52.017 PERSONNEL.
   The Mayor shall appoint a Superintendent of the Department of Water Works,
assistants, forepersons, clerks, and other personnel as may be found necessary
by the Board of Trustees. All persons shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 52.17)
§ 52.018 RECORDS; SUPERVISION.
   The Department of Water Works shall keep complete and detailed records of
its affairs which shall be open to public inspection as required by law. The
Department shall be under the jurisdiction of the State Public Service
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 52.18)
§ 52.019 NOTICE TO DEPARTMENT PRIOR TO SALE OF PROPERTY.
   Within 20 days of the sale of real property served by the Department, the
purchaser and seller of the property shall notify the Department of the pending
sale in order to allow a final reading of the seller’s meter and calculation of
the final charges for water service prior to closing. The obligation to provide
notice to the Department shall lie with both the property purchaser and seller.
In the event notice is not received by the Department and charges for water
service incurred by the seller are unpaid, those unpaid water service charges
shall become the obligation of the purchaser of the property.
(Prior Code, § 52.19) (Ord. 0-97-0010, passed - -1997)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
52.003 shall be subject the penalties described in §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 20-0013, passed 8-24-2020)
CHAPTER 53: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Policy
   
53.003   Regulation
   
53.004   Inspections
   
53.005   Access to premises
   
53.006   Discontinuance of water service
   
53.007   Typical installations
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through atmosphere between the
discharge end of a pipeline supplies from a public water supply, and the
overflow rim of the receiving portion of the customer water system.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the Department of Public Works as meeting an
applicable specification stated or cited in this regulation, or as suitable for
the proposed use.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, substances, or
contaminants into the distribution pipes of a potable supply of water from any
source or sources other than its intended source.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or means to prevent backflow.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE, APPROVED. Any device or assembly, approved by
the Department of Water Works for construction on or installation in water
supply piping, which is capable of preventing contaminants from entering the
public water supply distribution system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE TESTER, CERTIFIED. A person who has proven
competency in accordance with requirements as set forth by the State Department
of Environmental Management. Each person who is certified to make tests or to
repair, overhaul, and make reports on backflow prevention devices shall be
completely familiar with applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flowing back of used, contaminated, or polluted water
from a plumbing fixture or vessel or other sources into a water supply pipe due
to a negative pressure in the pipe, or backflow caused by pressure within the
customer’s piping system that exceeds the pressure in the utility’s system.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage, gases,
or industrial fluids or waste to a degree which may create a hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through the spread of disease.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical arrangement, including cross-connection
control devices not in working order, whereby a public water supply
distribution system is directly connected, either continuously or
intermittently, with any secondary source of supply, sewer, drain, conduit,
pool, piping, storage reservoir, plumbing fixture, or other device which
contains, or may contain, and is capable of imparting to the public water
supply, contaminants, contaminated water, sewage, or other waste or liquid of
unknown or unsafe quality.
   CROSS-CONNECTION, POINT OF. The specific point or location in a public or a
consumer’s potable water system where a cross-connection exists.
   CUSTOMER. Any person who receives water from a public water supply.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting, approved check valves, including test cocks for testing
and tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of the assembly.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF. The term is derived from an evaluation of the potential
risk to public health and the adverse effect upon the potable water system.
   HAZARD, HEALTH (CROSS-CONNECTION HAZARD). An actual or potential threat of
contamination or pollution of a physical or toxic nature to the public potable
water system or the consumer’s potable water system to a degree of intensity
that there would be a danger to health.
   HAZARD, PLUMBING. A plumbing type cross-connection in a consumer’s potable
water system that has not been properly protected by a vacuum breaker, air-gap
separation, or other device. Unprotected plumbing type cross-connections are
considered to be a health hazard. They include, but are not limited to, cross-
connections to toilets, sinks, lavatories, wash trays, domestic washing
machines, and lawn sprinkling systems.
   HAZARD, POLLUTIONAL. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system and which would constitute a nuisance or be
aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system or its
appurtenances, but would not be dangerous to health.
   HAZARD, SYSTEM. An actual or potential threat of sewer damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system or of a pollution or contamination which would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS. Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
as would constitute a health, system, pollutional or plumbing hazard if
introduced into an approved water supply. This may include, but is not limited
to, polluted or contaminated used waters; all types of process waters and “used
water” originating from the public potable water system which may deteriorate
in the sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating acids and alkalies;
circulated cooling waters connected to an open cooling tower and/or cooling
waters that are chemically or biologically treated or stabilized with toxic
substances; contaminated natural wastes such as from wells, springs, streams,
rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals or systems, and the like; oils,
gases, glycerine, paraffins, caustic, and acid solutions and other liquid and
gaseous fluids used in industrial or other processes or for firefighting
purposes.
   LABORATORY, APPROVED TESTING. A laboratory acceptable to the Department of
Water Works that is properly staffed and equipped with pumps, meters, measuring
devices, and the like, to fully test and evaluate a backflow prevention device
for design, materials, construction, and operation. As used herein, the term
APPROVED TESTING LABORATORY is one which is equivalent to the Foundation for
Cross-Connection Control Research of the University of Southern California.
Other testing laboratories may be approved by the utility’s Chief Water
Engineer when found to be properly qualified.
   PIPING SYSTEM, CONSUMER’S (CUSTOMER WATER SYSTEM). Any system used by the
consumer transmission of or to confine or store any fluid, solid, or gaseous
substance other than an approved water supply. Such a system would include all
pipes, conduits, tanks, receptacles, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances
used to produce, convey, or store substances which are or may be polluted or
contaminated.
   POLLUTION. An impairment of the quality of the water to a degree which does
not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely and
unreasonably affect water for domestic use.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing
within its structure a minimum of two independently acting, approved check
valves, together with an automatically operating pressure differential relief
valve located between the two check valves. The first check valve reduces the
supply pressure a predetermined amount so that during normal flow and at
cessation of normal flow the pressure between the checks shall be less than the
supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the differential
relief valve, by discharging into the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the
pressure between the checks less than the supply pressure. The unit shall
include tightly closing shut-off valves located at each end of the device and
each device shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service connection from the public
potable water system, i.e., where the utility loses jurisdiction and sanitary
control over the water at its point of delivery to the consumer’s water system.
If a meter is installed at the end of the SERVICE CONNECTION, then the SERVICE
CONNECTION shall mean the downstream end of the meter. There should be no
unprotected take-offs from the service line ahead of any meter or backflow
prevention device located at the point of delivery to the consumer’s water
system.
   UTILITY. The Department of Water Works, and the owner and operator of a
public potable water system distributing an approved water supply to the public
in the city.
   WATER, POTABLE. Water from any source which has been investigated by the
health agency having jurisdiction, and which has been approved for human
consumption.
   WATER SUPPLY, APPROVED. Any potable water supply which has been investigated
and approved by the State Board of Health for distribution to the general
public for human consumption. The supply shall be periodically tested, as
prescribed by the Board of Health, to ensure its continued safety and
potability.
   WATER SUPPLY, AUXILIARY (SECONDARY SOURCE OF SUPPLY). Any water supply on or
available to the premises other than the utility’s approved public potable
water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water from another utility’s
public potable water supply or any natural source such as a well, spring,
river, stream, harbor, and the like, or “used waters” or “industrial fluids.”
They may be polluted or contaminated or they may be objectionable and
constitute an unacceptable water source over which the utility does not have
sanitary control. This includes tanks used to store water to be used only for
fire fighting, even though the water contained therein is supplied from the
public water supply.
   WATER SUPPLY, UNAPPROVED. A water supply which has not been approved for
human consumption by the health agency having jurisdiction.
   WATER SYSTEM(S), CONSUMER’S. Includes any water system located on the
consumer’s premises whether supplied by a public potable water system or an
auxiliary water supply. The system or systems may be either a potable water
system or a piping system.
   WATER SYSTEM, CONSUMER’S POTABLE. The portion of the privately owned potable
water system lying between the point of delivery and point of use. This system
will include all pipes, conduits, tanks, receptacles, fixtures, equipment, and
appurtenances used to produce, convey, store, or use potable water.
   WATER SYSTEM, PUBLIC POTABLE. Any publicly or privately owned water system
operated as a public utility under a valid health permit to supply water for
domestic purposes. This system will include all sources, facilities, and
appurtenances between the source and the point of delivery such as valves,
pumps, pipes, conduits, tanks, receptacles, fixtures, equipment, and
appurtenances used to produce, convey, treat, or store a potable water for
public consumption or use.
   WATER, USED. Any water supplied by a utility from a public potable water
system to a consumer’s water system after it has passed through the point of
delivery and is no longer under the control of the utility.
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 3487, passed - -1989)
§ 53.002 POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The policy of the utility is to control by containment all
cross-connections which shall be found to exist or which may be installed in
the future on the utility customer’s water piping systems.
      (2)   For the purpose of this regulation the term CONTAINMENT means the
complete isolation of the customer’s system which affects or may affect the
public distribution system.
   (B)   Containment shall be achieved by:
      (1)   Assurance that the customer’s system, or any portion thereof, which
may create or is creating a backflow problem, is physically disconnected from
the utility’s distribution system; or
      (2)   By installing a backflow prevention device approved by the utility
at the appropriate location to isolate the customer’s system from the utility’s
distribution system.
(Prior Code, § 53.02) (Ord. 3487, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 53.003 REGULATION.
   (A)   All new businesses and industries where it is possible that a
pollutional, health, or system hazard may be created, and/or where materials
dangerous to health or toxic substances in toxic concentrations are in tanks,
piping systems, or other auxiliary water supply on the premises, and/or where
the water system is, or may be, cross-connected to the owner’s private water
supply, an approved backflow prevention device will be required at each meter
connection on the premises. The backflow preventer must be of the type
acceptable to the utility.
   (B)   (1)   For all existing businesses and industries having secondary
water supplies within its premises a reduced pressure backflow preventer at all
meter connections entering the premises will be required as a condition of
service on and after May 1, 1989.
      (2)   For all others, annual surveys may be made of the consumer’s
presently installed water system in order to determine the degree of hazard
through possible cross-connections to the public potable water system. This
survey will be an inspection to establish: the water uses on the premises; the
existence or possibility of cross-connections; repumped water supplies; the use
or possible use of pollutants, contaminants, toxic substances, and other
liquid, solid, or gaseous substances which may be used industrially for
stabilization of water supplies and other industrial processes as are necessary
by the industry. If violations are found, corrections must be made. Should a
subsequent violation be found an approved backflow prevention device is
required at each meter connection on the premises. The backflow preventer must
be of the type acceptable to the utility.
   (C)   All high rise structures (buildings over four stories or 40 feet tall)
are required, as a condition of providing service, to have an approved reduced
pressure backflow device at all meter connections.
   (D)   Backflow preventer’s responsibility for installation and maintenance.
Backflow preventive devices required hereunder shall be of a type and
manufacture approved by the utility. The devices shall be installed by and at
the expense of the customer in an accessible location, without provisions for
bypass, and in a manner approved by the utility. The customer shall maintain
them in a satisfactory operating condition and shall overhaul or replace the
devices if found defective.
(Prior Code, § 53.03) (Ord. 3487, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 53.004 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Department of Water Works to cause inspections
to be made of all properties served by the public water system where cross-
connections with the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall
be as established by the City Water Department.
(Prior Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 3487, passed - -1989)
§ 53.005 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the City Water
Department shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine any property served by a connection to the public water system of the
city for cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessee, or occupant of any
property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on the property. The refusal
of access or refusal or requested pertinent information shall be deemed
evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
(Prior Code, § 53.05) (Ord. 3487, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 53.006 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   The Department of Water Works is authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this chapter exists, and to take other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served on
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water service to the property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If it is deemed by the Department of Water Works that a cross-
connection or an emergency endangers public health, safety, or welfare and
requires immediate action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with
the City Clerk and delivered to the consumer’s premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
within ten days of the emergency discontinuance.
(Prior Code, § 53.06) (Ord. 3487, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 53.007 TYPICAL INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   An approved reduced pressure principle backflow preventer shall be
installed at each service connection to any premises where there is an
auxiliary water supply unless the auxiliary water supply is accepted as an
additional source by the utility, and the source is approved by the State Board
of Health. A complete and permanent abandonment of the auxiliary water
facility, where possible and practical, will eliminate further application of
this requirement.
   (B)   An approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device
shall be installed at each service connection to any premises on which
industrial fluids are handled in a separate system and there are, or may be,
actual or potential cross-connections on the premises.
   (C)   An approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device or
approved air gap shall be installed at each service connection to any premises
on which there is a sewage treatment plan, sewage pumping station, including
privately owned sewage pumping plants in buildings, or a stormwater pumping
station.
   (D)   An approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device
shall be installed at each service connection to a hospital, medical-dental
building, mortuary, or other similar premises where the water utility
determines that an actual or potential hazard exists.
(Prior Code, § 53.07) (Ord. 3487, passed - -1989)
CHAPTER 54: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
54.001   Board of Stormwater Management to operate stormwater system
   
54.002   Purpose and objective
   
54.003   Abbreviations and definitions
   
54.004   Inspection, maintenance, and reporting
Construction Site Control
   
54.015   Purpose and intent
   
54.016   Applicability and exemptions
   
54.017   Responsibility for administration
   
54.018   Determination of land disturbance
   
54.019   Responsibility for implementation
   
54.020   General requirements for stormwater quality control
Stormwater Quality Management Control for Post-Construction
   
54.035   Purpose and intent
   
54.036   Applicability and exemptions
   
54.037   Responsibility for implementation
   
54.038   Calculations, design standards, and specifications
Prohibited Discharges and Connections
   
54.050   Purpose and intent
   
54.051   Applicability and exemptions
   
54.052   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
54.053   Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
54.054   Monitoring of discharges
   
54.055   Pollutant reduction through the use of best management practices
   
54.056   Private property maintenance duties
   
54.057   Spill reporting
Rates, Charges, and Billing
   
54.070   Stormwater service charge
   
54.071   Stormwater rate establishment procedures
   
54.072   Rate structure and calculation
   
54.073   Billings; terms of payment
   
54.074   Appeals of ERU determination
   
54.075   Discount and credit policies and procedures
   
54.076   Stormwater Fund
   
54.077   Delinquent fees and penalties as liens; duplicates; collection
 
   
54.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.001 BOARD OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT TO OPERATE STORMWATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Adoption of state law. The provisions of I.C. 8-1.5-5 are hereby
adopted in their entirety, and the following entities are established in the
city:
      (1)   A Department of Stormwater Management to be controlled by a Board
of Directors; and
      (2)   A Stormwater Management District, extending to the corporate
boundaries of the city is hereby established for the purpose of providing for
the collection and disposal of stormwater of the city in a manner which
protects the public health and welfare, and for the purpose of assessing fees
to pay for the cost of stormwater facilities and services. As the corporate
boundaries of the city change, whether through annexation or otherwise, so
shall the boundaries of the Stormwater District change.
   (B)   Powers of the Board. The Board of Directors of the Department of
Stormwater Management shall have exclusive jurisdiction over the collection and
disposal of stormwater within the District, and shall possess all the powers
and duties set forth in I.C. 8-1.5-3-4 and 8-1.5-5-6 including but not limited
to the power to:
      (1)   Establish and enforce rules and regulations governing the
Department of Stormwater Management;
      (2)   Hold hearings following public notice;
      (3)   Make findings and determinations;
      (4)   Install, maintain, and operate a stormwater collection and disposal
system;
      (5)   Make all necessary or desirable improvements of the grounds and
premises under its control; and
      (6)   Subject to the approval of the Common Council, establish, assess,
and collect user fees from all of the property of the Stormwater District for
the operation and maintenance of the stormwater system. The amount of the user
fees must be the minimum amount necessary for the operation and maintenance of
the stormwater system.
(Prior Code, § 54.001) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 54.002 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The function of the Department of Stormwater Management is to provide
for the safe and efficient capture and conveyance of stormwater runoff;
mitigate the damaging effects of stormwater runoff; correct stormwater
collection and conveyance problems; and fund the activities of stormwater
management including design, planning, regulation, education, coordination,
construction, operation, maintenance, inspection, and enforcement activities,
all for the protection of the public health, welfare, and safety. It is the
further function of the Division of Stormwater Management to ensure the city’s
compliance with its NPDES stormwater discharge permit(s).
   (B)   It is hereby determined necessary for the protection of public health,
safety, and welfare and to conform with federal, state, and local laws and
regulations that a system of charges for stormwater service in the city be
established which allocates the cost of providing stormwater service to each
user in a manner that the charges assessed are proportionate to the cost of
providing stormwater service to that user, insofar as those costs can
reasonably be determined.
(Prior Code, § 54.002) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 54.003 ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following abbreviations and
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   (A)   Abbreviations.
BMP   Best Management Practice
BSM   East Chicago Board of Stormwater Management
CWA   Clean Water Act
DSM   East Chicago Sanitary District Division of Stormwater Management
USEPA U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
GIS   Geographic Information System
IDDE  Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination
IDEM  Indiana Department of Environmental Management
MS4   Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems
NOI   Notice of Intent
NOT   Notice of Termination
NPDES National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
SWQMP Stormwater Quality Management Plan
SWPPP Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
 
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABATEMENT. Any action taken to remedy, correct, or eliminate a condition
within, associated with, or impacting a stormwater drainage system.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops, pasture establishment and renovation, the construction of agricultural
conservation practices, and the installation and maintenance of agricultural
drainage tiles.
      AGRICULTURAL PROPERTY. A parcel or lot exceeding five acres of land
encompassing two or more structures used to support agricultural activities.
      APARTMENT/CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY. A lot or parcel of real estate on which
is situated a building containing five or greater single-family dwelling units,
or on which two or more buildings each containing multiple single-family
dwelling units are situated.
      APPROVED PLANS. Plans approved by the Division of Stormwater Management
according to a permits and plan review which will govern all improvements made
within the city that require stormwater facilities or changes or alterations to
existing stormwater facilities.
      AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES. Division of Stormwater Management,
Engineering Department, Department of Code Enforcement, City Police and Fire
Departments, or its subcontractors shall be the agencies authorized to enforce
this chapter of the municipal code.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP). Any structural or non-structural control
measure used to temporarily store or treat stormwater runoff, to improve its
quality and, as appropriate, reduce the quantity of stormwater runoff. Also
includes the design, construction, and maintenance practices and criteria for
stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of stormwater runoff rates and
volumes, prevent erosion, and capture pollutants. The term includes schedules
of activities, prohibitions of practice, treatment requirements, operation and
maintenance procedures, use of containment facilities, land use planning,
policy techniques, and other management practices.
      BOARD. Board of Directors of the Division of Stormwater Management
established under §
54.001.
      CHANNEL. A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which
periodically or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
link between two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to
confine the water.
      CODE. East Chicago Code of Ordinances.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer that is designed, constructed, and used to
receive and transport combined sewage.
      CONTIGUOUS. Abutting or adjoining as in having a common boundary or edge.
      CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
      COUNTY-REGULATED DRAIN. Part of stormwater conveyance system under the
jurisdiction of the County Drainage Board, including certain ditches, tiles,
and sewers.
      DECHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE. Chlorinated water that has either
sat idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the MS4
conveyance, or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations (less
than five-hundredths milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
      DETENTION. The temporary storage of stormwater runoff in a basin, pond,
or other structure to control the peak discharge rates by holding the
stormwater for a lengthened period of time and which provides some gravity
settling of particulates.
      DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow
of stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the
excess waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
      DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining of storage of stormwater in
storage facilities, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks,
open spaces, or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with
the rate of release regulated by appropriately installed devices.
      DEVELOPED. The condition of real property altered from its natural state
by the addition to or construction on the property of impervious surfaces or
physical improvements so that the hydrology of the property or a portion
thereof is affected.
      DIRECT DISCHARGE. Stormwater runoff from a contiguous property that
enters an exempt drain, such as a river, without entering the utility-
controlled drainage system.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the City Sanitary District.
      DISCHARGE. The flow of any substance into the stormwater system.
      DITCH. A human-made, open watercourse in or into which excess surface
water or groundwater drained from land, stormwater runoff, or floodwaters flow
either continuously or intermittently.
      DRAIN. Relative to stormwater drainage, any sewer, tile, ditch, stream,
or other stormwater runoff conveyance channel or conduit.
      DRAINAGE. The conveyance of excess surface water or groundwater from land
by means of ditches or subsurface drains.
      DSM. City Division of Stormwater Management.
      EQUIVALENT UNIT. A unit value, equal to the average residential amount of
impervious area of a single (ERU) family residential property within the city,
and established at 2,500 square feet of (measured) impervious area. It is also
the basis for calculating the proper assessment of stormwater charges to all
users of the city stormwater system.
      EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice,
gravity, or other geological agents.
      EXEMPT DRAIN. A primary line of stormwater conveyance for which primary
jurisdiction and maintenance fall to the State Department of Natural Resources,
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and/or the County Drainage Board rather than the
city.
      FLOATABLE. Any solid waste that will float on the surface of the water.
For the purpose of this chapter, the term does not include naturally occurring
floatables, such as leaves or tree limbs.
      GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS). A computer system capable of
assembly, storage, manipulation, and display of geographically referenced
information. This technology can be used for resource management and
development planning.
      GROUNDWATER. Accumulation of underground water, natural or artificial.
The term does not include manmade underground storage or conveyance structures.
      HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
surface of the earth, and underground. A typical hydrologic study is undertaken
to compute flow rates associated with specified flood events.
      ILLEGAL CONNECTION. The connection of any discharge to a separate
stormwater conveyance that would allow the introduction of material that is not
composed entirely of stormwater and naturally occurring floatables into the
stormwater conveyance system.
      ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, that allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drainage
system. This would include, but not be limited to, any conveyance that
discharges sanitary sewage, process wastewater or wash water from sources such
as indoor drains and sinks, regardless of whether the drain or connection had
been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement
agency. Also, any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system that has not been documented in plans, maps,
or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a conveyance, other than stormwater
and naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or tree limbs. Sources of
ILLICIT DISCHARGES may include sanitary wastewater, septic tank effluent, oil
disposal, radiator flushing disposal, laundry wastewater, roadway accident
spillage, and household hazardous wastes.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE/AREA. Areas that have been paved and/or covered with
buildings and materials which include, but are not limited to, concrete,
asphalt, rooftop, and blacktop, such that the infiltration of water into the
soil is prevented. Excluded from this definition are undisturbed land, lawns,
and fields.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance or form of
energy discharged, permitted to flow or to escape, or be transported from an
industrial, manufacturing, commercial, or business operation or process or from
the development, recovery, or processing of any natural resource carried on by
any person.
      INFILTRATION. The process of allowing runoff to penetrate the ground
surface and flow though the upper soil surface.
      INLET. An opening into a stormwater drainage system for the entrance of
surface stormwater runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.
      LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover, that exposes the underlying soil including
excavating, filling, transporting, and grading.
      MANHOLE. Storm drain structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm drain or enclosed structure.
      MONTH. The period between any two consecutive regular billings by the
utility for service rendered to a customer. Billings are scheduled at intervals
of approximately 30 days. For purposes of billing, a MONTH is 25 through 35
days. Any bills produced outside the MONTH parameter will be prorated.
      MONTHLY. Occurring once in a month. For purposes of billing, bills are
issued on a MONTHLY basis or one time per month.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). An MS4 meets the following
criteria:
         (a)   Is a conveyance or system of conveyances owned by the state,
county, city, town, or other public entity;
         (b)   Discharges to waters of the United States;
         (c)   Is designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
         (d)   Is not a combined sewer; and
         (e)   Is not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW).
      NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
         (a)   All properties not encompassed by the definition of residential
shall be defined as nonresidential.
         (b)   NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY will include:
            1.   Agricultural property;
            2.   Apartment and condominium property;
            3.   Mobile home parks;
            4.   Commercial property;
            5.   Industrial property;
            6.   Institutional property;
            7.   Governmental property;
            8.   Churches;
            9.   Schools;
            10.   Federal, state, and local property; and
            11.   Any other property not mentioned in this or the list of
residential properties below.
      NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
      NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system. Regulations for
stormwater discharges as described in the Federal Register, 40 C.F.R. Parts
122, 123, and 124.
      NPDES PERMIT. Permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Clean Water Act
(CWA), being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
      OCCUPANT. Any person or entity that lives or does business within a real
property, whether with or without any right, title, or interest in the property
or any person or entity in possession or charge of real estate in the event
that the owner resides or is located elsewhere.
      ON-SITE STORMWATER CONVEYANCES/CONNECTIONS. Conveyances/connections
located throughout the entire area included in the legal description of the
land on which land disturbing activity is to be performed.
      OUTFALL. The point, location, or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
      OUTLET. An opening through which water is discharged.
      PEAK DISCHARGE. The maximum rate of flow of water passing a given point
during or after a rainfall event. The term also means the maximum instantaneous
flow from a given storm condition at a specific location.
      PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform density, of
vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive material on a disturbed site that
will ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding, or other movement.
      PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the
property owner or the owner’s agent.
      POLLUTING SUBSTANCES. Discharges of untreated wastewater and other
substances from municipalities, industries, and commercial businesses that
cause an imbalance in the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the
city’s waters.
      PRIVATE STORMWATER FACILITIES. Various stormwater and drainage works not
under the control or ownership of the city, county, state, and/or federal
government which may include inlets, conduits, pipes, pumping stations,
manholes, structures, channels, outlets, retention, or detention basins, other
structural components and equipment designed to transport, move, or regulate
stormwater.
      PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person who is required to submit the NOI letter
and is required to comply with the terms set forth in 327 I.A.C. 15-5 and 327
I.A.C. 15-13 and this chapter, including either of the following: a developer
or a person who has financial and operational control of construction
activities and project plans and specifications, including the ability to make
modifications to those plans and specifications.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The individual, partnership, or corporation holding the
deed or record title to the property. A contract purchaser is not considered
the PROPERTY OWNER.
      PUBLIC STORMWATER FACILITIES. The various stormwater and drainage works
under the control and/or ownership of the city, county, state, or federal
government which may include inlets, conduits, pipes, pumping stations,
manholes, structures, channels, outlets, retention or detention basins, other
structural components and equipment designed to transport, move, or regulate
stormwater.
      RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. For the purpose of this chapter, this definition
refers to a lot or parcel of real estate on which a building or mobile home is
situated which building contains a group of rooms forming a single inhabitable
dwelling unit with facilities which are used or are intended to be used
primarily for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating. This definition also
includes a lot containing one individual building containing four or fewer
separate or contiguous single-family dwelling units. Each and every RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY shall be assigned one ERU.
      RETENTION. The holding of stormwater runoff in a constructed basin or
pond or in a natural body of water without release except by means of
evaporation, infiltration, or emergency bypass.
      RETROFIT. To install a new BMP or improve an existing BMP.
      RIPARIAN ZONE. Of, on, or pertaining to the banks of a stream, river, or
pond.
      RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on
the land surface, in open channels or in stormwater conveyance systems.
      SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in
suspension, is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth’s surface.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris, and other
unconsolidated materials either on ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
      SEWAGE. The water-carried wastes from residences, business buildings,
institutions, and industrial establishments, singularly or in any combination,
together with the ground, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
      SEWER. May refer to storm, sanitary, or combined water conduction
facility.
      SHEET DRAINAGE. Storm runoff that causes sheet erosion, or the gradual
removal of a fairly uniform layer of soil from the land surface.
      SQUARE FOOTAGE OF IMPERVIOUS AREA. For the purpose of assigning an
appropriate number of ERUs to a parcel of real property, the square footage of
all impervious area using the outside boundary dimensions of the impervious
area to include the total enclosed square footage, without regard to
topographic features of the enclosed surface.
      STOP WORK ORDER. An order issued which requires that all construction
activity on a site be stopped.
      STORM EVENT. An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within a
given period of time. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour duration STORM
EVENT is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
      STORM SEWER. A sewer designed or intended to convey only stormwater,
surface runoff, street wash waters, and drainage, and not intended for sanitary
sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water. The portion
of a sewer intended to carry stormwater only, which begins at the grating or
opening where water enters the sewer, through the sewer and any other conduits
to the outlet structure where water enters a channel, natural watercourse, or
combined sewer. Also called a STORM DRAIN.
      STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
      STORMWATER FACILITIES. Various stormwater and drainage works under the
control and/or ownership of the city, county, state, or federal government
which may include inlets, conduits, pipes, pumping stations, manholes,
structures, channels, outlets, retention or detention basins, other structural
components, and equipment designed to transport, move, or regulate stormwater.
      STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan developed to
minimize the impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction
activities.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN (SWQMP). A comprehensive written
document that addresses stormwater runoff quality.
      STORMWATER SERVICE CHARGE. A charge imposed on users of the city’s
stormwater collection, impounding, and transportation system.
      STORMWATER SERVICE CUSTOMER/ USER. The owner of a lot or parcel of
residential or nonresidential property shall be considered the Division of
Stormwater Management customers for the purpose of assessing stormwater service
charges.
      STORMWATER SYSTEM. All constructed facilities, including combined sewers,
structures, and natural watercourses used for collecting and conducting
stormwater to, through and from drainage areas to the point of final outlet,
including, but not limited to, any and all of the following: inlets, conduits,
and appurtenant features, creeks, channels, catch basins, ditches, streams,
culverts, retention or detention basins, and pumping stations.
      TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of stormwater quality, including erosion and sediment control as may
be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification, experience,
or completion of coursework that enables the individual to make judgments
regarding stormwater control or treatment and monitoring.
      WATER BODY. Any accumulation of water, surface or underground, natural or
artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water pollution
control facilities.
      WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical, and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
      WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or human-
made drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
(Prior Code, § 54.003) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 54.004 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Upon the approval of the SWPPP and the issuance of all other required
permits and approvals by the DSM, the following shall occur during the period
of construction activities:
      (1)   The BSM, or its designee, shall have the authority to conduct
inspections of the site to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, the design standards and technical specifications by the BSM and the
terms and conditions of the approved SWPPP;
      (2)   A self-monitoring program shall be implemented by the project site
owner to ensure the stormwater pollution prevention plan is working
effectively. The program must include the following:
         (a)   A trained individual shall perform an inspection and prepare a
written evaluation of the project site:
            1.   By the end of the next business day following each five-tenths
inch of rain; and
            2.   At a minimum of one time per week.
         (b)   The evaluation must:
            1.   Address the maintenance of existing stormwater quality
measures to ensure they are functioning properly; and
            2.   Identify additional measures necessary to remain in compliance
with all applicable laws and ordinances.
         (c)   Written evaluation reports must include:
            1.   The name of the individual performing the evaluation;
            2.   The date of the evaluation;
            3.   Problems identified at the project site; and
            4.   Details of corrective actions recommended and completed.
         (d)   All evaluation reports for the project site must be made
available to the inspecting authority within 48 hours of a request.
   (B)   Upon completion of the construction activities the following shall
occur perpetually in accordance with the SWPPP regardless of site usage and
land ownership.
      (1)   All constructed stormwater quality facilities shall be maintained
by the property owner, or per agreements on file with the DSM, and be in good
condition and in accordance with the approved SWPPP operation and maintenance
procedures and schedules and the BSM approved technical standards.
      (2)   The approved stormwater quality facilities shall not be
subsequently altered, revised, or replaced except in accordance with the
approved SWPPP or in accordance with DSM approved amendments or revisions to
the SWPPP.
      (3)   The BSM, or its designee, shall have the authority to conduct
inspections of the site and the installed BMPs to ensure full compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, the design standards and technical
specifications approved by the BSM, and terms and conditions of the SWPPP.
(Prior Code, § 54.050) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
CONSTRUCTION SITE CONTROL
§ 54.015 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish requirements for
stormwater discharges from construction activities of one acre or more so that
the public health, existing water uses, and aquatic biota are protected. This
section establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into
the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with
requirements of the national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES)
permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To regulate construction activities disturbing more than one acre
of land as governed by 327 I.A.C. 15-5; and
      (2)   To require construction site operators to develop and implement a
construction plan including a stormwater pollution prevention plan in order to
receive a land disturbance permit from the city.
(Prior Code, § 54.015) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 54.016 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be required that a notice of intent (NOI) be submitted to the
State Department of Environmental Management and to the DSM and that a
stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) be submitted and approved by the
DSM for any project located within the City Stormwater Management District that
includes clearing, grading, excavation, filling, and other land disturbing
activities resulting in the following:
      (1)   The disturbance of one acre or more of total land area as
determined in §
54.018; and
      (2)   Disturbances of less than one acre of land that are part of a
larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will
ultimately disturb one or more acres of land.
   (B)   The SWPPP must be approved by the DSM prior to the beginning of any
land disturbing activities on the site for which the plan is submitted. The
SWPPP must comply with the design criteria and technical standards and
specifications approved by the BSM.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to the following types of activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbance activities; and
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to the following activities, provided
other applicable permits contain provisions requiring immediate implementation
of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10;
      (2)   Coal mining activities under I.C. 14-34;
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by IDEM under 329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent
stormwater requirements, including the expansion of landfill boundaries and
construction of new cells either within or outside the original solid waste
permit boundary; and
      (4)   Roadway projects initiated by the State Department of
Transportation.
(Prior Code, § 54.016) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.017 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Board of Stormwater Management of the city shall administer, implement,
and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.017) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 54.018 DETERMINATION OF LAND DISTURBANCE.
   In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of
determining applicability of this chapter to the project, the following
guidelines should be used.
   (A)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for example,
road extensions, sewer, water, and other utilities) to a land disturbing
project site, must be considered as a part of the total land disturbance
calculation for the project site, when the activity is under the control of the
project site owner.
   (B)   Strip developments will be considered as one project site and must
comply with this chapter unless the total combined disturbance on all
individual lots is less than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development or sale.
   (C)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by this rule,
the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total area of
land disturbance for improvements, such as roads, utilities, or common areas,
and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined by the
following:
      (1)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
one-half acre or more, one-half acre of land disturbance must be used as the
expected lot disturbance;
      (2)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
less than one-half acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed; and
      (3)   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of projects sites,
such as industrial and commercial projects project sites, a minimum of one acre
of land disturbance must be used as the expected lot disturbance, unless the
lots are less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot must be
calculated as being disturbed.
   (D)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall meet
the design criteria and the technical standards and specifications approved by
the Board of Stormwater Management.
(Prior Code, § 54.018) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.019 RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPLEMENTATION.
   A project site owner shall be identified for all projects that require the
submission of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) and a construction
permit per §
54.016(A).
   (A)   The project site owner has the following responsibilities:
      (1)   Ensure that a sufficient SWPPP is completed, submitted, and
approved by the Division of Stormwater Management (DSM);
      (2)   Complete a sufficient notice of intent (NOI) letter to be submitted
to the State Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), with a copy sent to
the DSM;
      (3)   Make application and obtain a land disturbance permit in accordance
with procedures established by the DSM;
      (4)   Ensure compliance with this chapter during:
         (a)   The construction activity; and
         (b)   Implementation of the construction plan.
      (5)   Ensure that all persons engaging in construction activities on a
permitted project site comply with the applicable requirements of this rule and
the approved SWPPP; and
      (6)   Notify the IDEM with a sufficient notice of termination (NOT)
letter with a copy sent to the DSM.
   (B) For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one acre
or more and the lot lies within a project site permitted under this rule, the
individual lot owner shall:
      (1)   Ensure that a sufficient stormwater management construction plan
has been submitted to and approved by the DSM and a construction permit has
been obtained;
      (2)   The stormwater management plan and construction activity shall
comply with the technical standards adopted by the BSM and with all sections of
this chapter and be in accordance with the applicable procedures established by
the DSM;
      (3)   Complete his or her own sufficient notice of intent (NOI) letter to
be submitted to the State Department of Environmental Management (IDEM), with a
copy sent to the DSM; and
      (4)   Notify the IDEM with a sufficient notice of termination (NOT)
letter with a copy sent to the DSM.
   (C)   For an individual lot where the land disturbance is less than one acre
and the lot lies within a project site permitted under this rule, the
individual lot operator shall comply with the provisions and requirements of
the DSM approved SWPPP and the stormwater construction permit for the overall
site, comply with the technical standards adopted by the BSM and comply with
this chapter. All work shall be performed in accordance with the applicable
procedures established by the DSM. A NOI is not required.
(Prior Code, § 54.019) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.020 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR STORMWATER QUALITY CONTROL.
   (A)   All stormwater quality measures and erosion and sediment controls
necessary to comply with this chapter must be implemented in accordance with
the stormwater pollution prevention plan and comply with the technical
standards adopted by the Board of Stormwater Management.
   (B)   All water quality measures must be sufficient to satisfy the following
conditions:
      (1)   Minimize the potential for soil erosion by designing a development
that fits the topography and soils of the site. Deep cuts and fill in areas
with steep slopes should be avoided wherever possible and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible;
      (2)   Existing natural vegetation should be retained and protected
wherever possible. Areas immediately adjacent to watercourses and lakes also
should be left undisturbed wherever possible. Non-vegetated or vegetated areas
with less than 70% cover that are scheduled or likely to be left inactive for
15 days or more must be temporarily or permanently stabilized with measures
appropriate for the season to reduce erosion potential. Alternative measures to
site stabilization may be acceptable if the project site owner or their
representative can demonstrate they have implemented and maintained erosion and
sediment control measures adequate to prevent sediment discharge from the
inactive area;
      (3)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence
so that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development;
      (4)   The length and steepness of designed slopes should be minimized to
reduce erosion potential. Drainage channels and swales must be designed and
adequately protected so that their final gradients and resultant velocities
will not cause erosion in the receiving channel or at the outlet;
      (5)   Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the project
site shall be treated by erosion and sediment control measures appropriate to
minimize sedimentation. A stable construction site access shall be provided at
all points of construction traffic ingress and egress to the project site;
      (6)   (a)   Appropriate measures shall be implemented to prevent wastes
or unused building materials, including, garbage, debris, packaging material,
fuels and petroleum products, hazardous materials or wastes, cleaning wastes,
wastewater, concrete truck washout, and other substances from being carried
from a project site by runoff or wind.
         (b)   Identification of areas where concrete truck washout is
permissible must be clearly posted at appropriate areas of the site. Wastes and
unused building materials shall be managed and disposed of in accordance with
all applicable state statutes and regulations.
         (c)   Proper storage and handling of materials such as fuels or
hazardous wastes, and spill prevention and cleanup measures (including having
spill response equipment on site) shall be implemented to minimize the
potential for pollutants to contaminate surface or groundwater or degrade soil
quality;
      (7)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment that is a result of runoff or tracking. Bulk clearing of accumulated
sediment shall not include flushing the area with water. Cleared sediment shall
be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in accordance with all
applicable statutes and regulations;
      (8)   Collected runoff leaving a project site must be either discharged
directly into a well-defined, stable receiving channel, or diffused and
released to adjacent property without causing an erosion or pollutant problem
to the adjacent property owner; and
      (9)   (a)   Natural features, including wetlands, shall be protected from
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
         (b)   All erosion and sediment control measures necessary to comply
with this chapter and with other provisions as outlined in 327 I.A.C. 15-5-
7 must be implemented in accordance with the submitted plans.
(Prior Code, § 54.020) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT CONTROL FOR POST-CONSTRUCTION
§ 54.035 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish requirements for the
installation of permanent stormwater quality features designed to intercept and
filter pollutants in stormwater discharges from newly developed or redeveloped
construction sites of one acre or more.
   (B)   Through the use and installation of stormwater quality BMPs,
stormwater runoff from these sites will be filtered and harmful amounts of
sediment, nutrients, and contaminants will be removed prior to reaching
regional creeks, streams, and rivers. The control of stormwater quality will be
based on the management of total suspended solids (TSS).
(Prior Code, § 54.035) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 54.036 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be required that a stormwater pollution prevention plan
(SWPPP) that addresses post-construction stormwater quality control measures be
submitted and approved by the DSM for any project located within the City
Stormwater Management District that includes clearing, grading, excavation,
filling, and other land disturbing activities resulting in the following:
      (1)   The disturbance of one acre or more of total land area as
determined per §
54.018; and
      (2)   Disturbances of less than one acre of land that are part of a
larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will
ultimately disturb one or more acres of land.
   (B)   The SWPPP must be approved by the DSM prior to the beginning of any
land disturbing activities on the site for which the plan is submitted. The
SWPPP shall include stormwater quality features that shall become permanent
features of the site plan and shall remain in place following completion of
construction activities. The SWPPP shall comply with the design criteria and
technical standards and specifications approved by the BSM.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to the following types of activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbance activities;
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities;
      (3)   Construction activities associated with a single-family residential
dwelling disturbing less than five acres, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale;
      (4)   Single-family residential developments consisting of four or less
lots;
      (5)   A single-family residential strip development that the developer
offers for sale or lease without land improvements and which project is not
part of a larger common plan of development or sale; and
      (6)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project.
   (D)   This section does not apply to the following activities, provided
other applicable permits contain provisions requiring immediate implementation
of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10;
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34;
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by IDEM under 329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent
stormwater requirements, including the expansion of landfill boundaries and
construction of new cells either within or outside the original solid waste
permit boundary;
      (4)   Roadway projects initiated by the State Department of
Transportation.
(Prior Code, § 54.036) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.037 RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPLEMENTATION.
   A project site owner shall be identified for all projects that require the
submission of a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) and a construction
permit per §
54.016(A).
   (A)   The project site owner has the following responsibilities:
      (1)   Ensure that a sufficient stormwater pollution prevention plan
(SWPPP) is completed, submitted, and approved by the Division of Stormwater
Management (DSM). The approved SWPPP shall include the placement of appropriate
best management practices (BMPs), designed, constructed, and maintained, from a
pre-approved list specified in the City Development Criteria/Standards Manual
or Stormwater Technical Standards Manual;
      (2)   Complete a stormwater permit application, along with a sufficient
construction plan, and submit to the DSM in accordance with §§
54.015 through
54.020;
      (3)   With the approved stormwater management permit, ensure proper
construction, and installation of all stormwater BMPs in compliance with the
technical standards adopted by the BSM; and
      (4)   Notify the State Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) with
a notice of termination (NOT) letter upon completion of the project and
stabilization of the site. A copy of the notice of termination (NOT) letter
must be submitted to the DSM.
   (B)   The project site owner must submit to the DSM a stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) that addresses the requirements of 327 I.A.C. 15-5-6.5
(a)(8) and shows the placement of appropriate BMPs from a pre-approved list of
BMPs specified in the City Development Criteria/Standards Manual or Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual developed and approved by the City Board of
Stormwater Management. The selected and approved BMPs must be designed,
constructed, and maintained according to guidelines provided or referenced in
the City Criteria/Standards Manual or Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   Practices other than those specified in the pre-approved list may be
utilized. However, the applicant shall be required to prove, to the
satisfaction of the plan review staff employed by the Division of Stormwater
Management for the city, that the performance and maintenance of the practices
will be according to guidelines provided in the City Development Criteria/
Standards Manual or Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and to ensure that a sufficient construction plan
is completed and submitted to the Division of Stormwater Management in
accordance with §§
54.015 through
54.020. It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
proper construction and installation of all stormwater BMPs in compliance with
this subchapter with the design standards adopted by the Board of Stormwater
Management for the city, and with the approved stormwater management permit.
The project site owner shall notify the Division of Stormwater Management for
the city upon completion of the project and stabilization of the site with a
sufficient notice of termination letter. However, all owners of property,
including stormwater quality facilities, meeting the applicability requirements
must comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.037) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.038 CALCULATIONS, DESIGN STANDARDS, AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines discussed
in §
54.018 and the City Development Criteria/Standards Manual or Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual adopted by the Board of Stormwater Management.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater quality management measures, or BMPs, shall meet the design
criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the City Development
Criteria/Standards Manual or Stormwater Technical Standards Manual adopted by
the City Board of Stormwater Management. The methods and procedures included in
these references are in keeping with the above stated policy and meet the
requirements of 327 I.A.C. 15-13.
(Prior Code, § 54.038) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
§ 54.050 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the city through the regulation of nonstormwater discharges
to the municipal separate storm sewer system and to establish the legal
authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance, and monitoring procedures
necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 54.065) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 54.051 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to all discharges, including illegal
dumping, entering the stormwater drainage system under the control of the Board
of Stormwater Management for the city. These discharges include flows from
direct connections to the stormwater drainage system, illegal dumping, and
contaminated runoff.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the following categories of
nonstormwater discharges or flows which are exempted from the requirements of
this chapter per 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(d)(2)(iv)(B)(l) and may be discharged into
the separate storm sewer system so long as the appropriate tap, connection, or
discharge permits have been secured, if needed:
      (1)   Water line flushing;
      (2)   Landscape irrigation or lawn watering;
      (3)   Diverted stream flows;
      (4)   Rising groundwaters;
      (5)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
      (6)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
      (7)   Discharges from potable water sources;
      (8)   Foundation, footing drains or crawl space pump discharge;
      (9)   Air conditioning condensation;
      (10)   Irrigation water;
      (11)   Springs;
      (12)   Individual residential car washing;
      (13)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
      (14)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges—chlorinated water that has
either sat idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the
MS4 conveyance, or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations of
chlorinated residual (less than five-hundredths milligram per liter);
      (15)   Street wash water; and
      (16)   Discharges from firefighting activities.
   (C)   Any nonstormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the United States Environmental Protection Agency is also exempted
from this chapter, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written acceptance has been granted for the
subject discharge to the stormwater drainage system.
(Prior Code, § 54.066) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.052 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Illicit discharges prohibited. No person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged to city’s municipal separate storm sewer system, watercourse, or
water body, directly or indirectly, any discharge that is not composed entirely
of stormwater except permitted discharges per 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(2). Any
person discharging stormwater shall effectively minimize pollutants from also
being discharged with the stormwater through the use of best management
practices (BMPs). The Division of Stormwater Management of the city is
authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution prevention measures,
including BMPs, as may be necessary to prevent or reduce the discharge of
pollutants into the city’s stormwater drainage system.
   (B)   Illegal connections prohibited. The construction, use, maintenance, or
existence of illegal connections to the storm drainage system is prohibited.
This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illegal connections
made in the past regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law
or practices prevailing or applicable at the time of connection and regardless
of whether the connection was approved by an authorized enforcement agency at
the time of the connection.
   (C)   Violation. It shall be a violation of this chapter to permit, allow,
or engage in the discharge of any pollutant into any waterway of the United
States, including but not limited to, the Grand Calumet River, the State Harbor
Ship Channel, any of their tributaries or streams or any streets, storm sewers,
or drains, ditches, or drainage ways leading to any waterway of the United
States.
(Prior Code, § 54.067) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.053 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to store polluting substances,
as identified by USEPA or IDEM, in a manner that violates any federal, state,
or local statute, ordinance, or regulation relating to the protection of the
public health, safety, and welfare or environment, when the storage is shown to
have the potential of allowing discharge to any waterway of the United States
including, but not limited to the Grand Calumet River, the Indiana Harbor Ship
Channel, any of their tributaries or streams or any streets, storm sewers or
drains, ditches, or drainage ways leading to any waterway of the United States.
   (B)   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material on any site must
include adequate protection and/or containment so as to prevent any materials
from entering any temporary or permanent stormwater conveyance or watercourse.
(Prior Code, § 54.068) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.054 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharge associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The City Department of Stormwater Management shall have all
authority provided by law and pursuant to the terms and conditions of any
applicable permit to enter and inspect facilities as often as may be necessary
to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has security
measures in force that require proper identification and clearance before entry
into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to
allow access by properly identified representatives of the Department of
Stormwater Management or authorized enforcement agencies.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the Department of Stormwater
Management ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, examination, and copying of records that must be kept as
part of the conditions of an NPDES permit.
      (3)   The Department of Stormwater Management shall have the right to set
up on any permitted facility devices as are necessary in the opinion of the
Department or an authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or
sampling of the facility’s stormwater discharge.
      (4)   (a)   The Department of Stormwater Management shall have the right
to require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary.
         (b)   The facility’s sampling and monitoring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the
discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and
quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction or condition that would
obstruct the safe and easy access to the facility to be sampled or monitored
shall be promptly removed by the operator upon the oral or written request of
the Department of Stormwater Management and the obstruction shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing the access, if any, shall be borne by the
facility.
      (6)   (a)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Department of Stormwater
Management access to a facility regulated under this chapter is a violation of
this chapter of the city’s municipal code.
         (b)   A person who is the operator of a facility with an NPDES permit
to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense
if the person denies reasonable access by the Department of Stormwater
Management or an authorized enforcement agency to the permitted facility for
the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
      (7)   If the Department of Stormwater Management has been refused access
to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and it can
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter or the municipal code, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample
as part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify
compliance with this chapter of the city’s municipal code or any order issued
hereunder or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the
community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 54.069) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.055 POLLUTANT REDUCTION THROUGH THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   (A)   The Department of Stormwater Management will establish acceptable best
management practices (BMPs) for any activity, operation, or facility that may
cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the municipal
storm drainage system or the waters of the United States.
   (B)   The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment
shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal separate
storm sewer system or watercourses, using the city’s approved BMPs. Further,
any person responsible for a property or premises that is or may be the source
of an illicit discharge may be required to implement additional BMPs as
required by the Department of Stormwater Management to prevent further
discharge of pollutants into the municipal separate storm sewer system.
Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing
the discharge of stormwater associated with industrial activity to the extent
practicable shall be deemed to be compliance with the provisions of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 54.070) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.056 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   (A)   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or
the person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse
located within their property boundaries free of trash, debris, excessive
vegetation, and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or
significantly retard the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition,
the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately owned structures within
or adjacent to a watercourse, so that the structures will not become a hazard
to the use, function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
   (B)   Easements intended for periodic or occasional use as conductors for
the flow of surface water runoff shall be maintained in an unobstructed
condition by the owners of the properties they cross. The utility shall have
the right to determine if any obstruction exists and to repair or maintain, or
require the repair and maintenance by the property owner, as shall be
reasonably necessary to keep the conductors unobstructed.
   (C)   No property owner or occupant shall change the stormwater runoff
pattern of his or her property in a way that neighboring properties or city
property is adversely affected. Consideration and provisions must be made for
drainage to and from neighboring properties when land use or development is
altered.
   (D)   No property owner or occupant shall direct stormwater runoff from roof
drains, sump pump outfalls, or other building drains in such a way that
neighboring properties or city property is adversely affected.
(Prior Code, § 54.071) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.057 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   As soon as any person responsible for a facility or operation, or
responsible for emergency response for a facility or operation, has information
about any known or suspected release of material that may result in illegal
discharges or pollutants entering the storm sewer system or watercourses, the
person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the timely discovery,
containment, and cleanup of the release.
   (B)   In the event of a release of hazardous material, the person shall
immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via emergency
dispatch services.
   (C)   In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, the person has
notify the Department of Stormwater Management or authorized enforcement agency
in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day.
   (D)   (1)   If the report is made in person or by phone, the reporting party
shall confirm the notice in writing addressed to the DSM within five days.
      (2)   The written report shall specify:
         (a)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
         (b)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
         (c)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence; and
         (d)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report,
and the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for
additional information on the matter.
   (E)   (1)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil proceeding brought under this chapter against a discharger
for the discharge.
      (2)   The report itself shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge.
      (3)   A discharge shall be considered properly reported only if the
discharger complies with all the requirements of this section.
      (4)   This requirement does not relieve the discharger from notifying
other entities as required by state or federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 54.072) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
RATES, CHARGES, AND BILLING
§ 54.070 STORMWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   A stormwater service charge shall be imposed on each and every lot and
parcel of land within the city which directly or indirectly contributes to the
stormwater system of the city, which charge shall be assessed against the owner
thereof, who shall be considered the user for the purposes of this chapter.
This charge is deemed reasonable and is necessary to pay for the repair,
replacement, planning, improvement, operation, regulation, and maintenance of
the existing and future city stormwater system and for compliance with the
city’s NPDES stormwater discharge permit(s).
(Prior Code, § 54.085) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 54.071 STORMWATER RATE ESTABLISHMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   The stormwater service rate shall be fixed as provided in I.C.
8-1.5-5.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, a MONTH shall be considered to be
a period of 25 days up through 35 days depending on billing cycles. Any
billings for stormwater service outside this time shall be on a per diem basis.
   (B)   (1)   This stormwater rate is designed to recover the cost of
rendering stormwater service to the users of the stormwater system, and shall
be the basis for assessment of the city’s stormwater service charge.
      (2)   This rate is established so as to maintain adequate fund reserves
to provide for reasonably expected variations in the cost of providing
services, as well as variations in the demand for services.
   (C)   This rate shall be evaluated annually as to its sufficiency to satisfy
the needs of the DSM.
(Prior Code, § 54.086) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 54.072 RATE STRUCTURE AND CALCULATION.
   (A)   For the purposes stated in §§
54.002 and
54.071, there is hereby assessed a stormwater service charge to each user
situated within the corporate limits of the city who contributes directly or
indirectly to the stormwater system of the city, in an amount as determined
below.
   (B)   For any property, lot, parcel of land, building, or premises which
contributes directly or indirectly to the stormwater system of the city, the
charge shall be based upon the quantity of impervious area situated thereon.
   (C)   All properties having impervious area within the city will be assigned
an equivalent residential unit (ERU), or multiple thereof, with all properties
having impervious area assigned at least one ERU.
      (1)   Residential properties. A monthly flat-rate charge for stormwater
service rendered to residential properties shall be charged to each account
within the city limits according to the service address. All residential
properties are hereby assigned one ERU. This flat fee shall apply to all
residential properties as defined herein. Residential properties may apply for
credits as outlined at §
54.075. Based on the granting of a credit, a residential property may pay for
less than one ERU. However, in no case shall a residential property pay for
less than 35% of the gross stormwater bill owed before credits were applied.
      (2)   Nonresidential properties. Nonresidential properties will be
assigned an ERU multiple based upon the property’s individually measured
impervious area (in square feet) divided by 2,500 square feet (one ERU). The
division will be calculated to the first decimal place.
      (3)   Whole ERUs. Only whole ERUs shall be used in determining the
assignment of gross ERUs to a property. All rounding necessary to reach the
appropriate whole ERU shall be done according to mathematical convention (0 -
0.4 rounded down to nearest whole ERU; 0.5 - 0.9 rounded up to nearest whole
ERU).
   (D)   There shall be no exceptions or exemptions from the assignment of
gross stormwater ERUs.
(Prior Code, § 54.087) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.073 BILLINGS; TERMS OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   Billings. All stormwater bills shall be rendered on a monthly basis,
along with the user’s charges for other city utility services.
   (B)   Terms of payment. The stormwater service charges prescribed in §
54.071 shall be due on the payment date set out on the bill. It shall be a
violation of this chapter to fail to pay a stormwater service bill when due.
All bills for stormwater services not paid on or before the due date, which due
date shall be approximately 15 days after the bill is rendered, shall be
subject to a collection or deferred payment charge of 10% on outstanding
balance.
   (C)   Payment priority. Stormwater service charges shall take priority over
all other charges for city utility services. Partial payments shall first be
applied to satisfy the garbage user fee under
Chapter 55 and secondly, to these charges.
   (D)   Collection. Delinquent stormwater service charges may be collected in
a civil action along with other delinquent city utility charges, reasonable
attorney fees, and court costs.
(Prior Code, § 54.088) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.074 APPEALS OF ERU DETERMINATION.
   (A)   If, in the opinion of any user, the ERU multiple assigned to his or
her property is inaccurate in light of the amount of impervious area of the
property, the user shall have the right to contest the ERU determination and
thus the rate assessed in the following manner.
   (B)   User shall obtain and complete a petition to appeal stormwater rate
form (petition) which shall be returned to the DSM with verifiable
documentation supporting user’s claim.
   (C)   The DSM shall investigate user’s claim and, upon review thereof, shall
render a written determination that either the original ERU determination and
assessed rate should be affirmed or the user’s rate should be adjusted
according to the petition.
   (D)   If user’s petition is denied, the opinion shall be forwarded to user
by certified mail, return receipt requested. User shall then have seven days
from date of receipt to request a reconsideration by the Director. Any
additional facts concerning the dispute shall be reduced to writing and
submitted, along with a copy of the original petition and supporting documents,
to the Director. The DSM shall submit a written report of the determination in
the case, along with any documents used in denying the user’s claim.
   (E)   Thereafter, the Director, or his or her designee, shall review all
documentation and conduct, as necessary in his or her opinion, an informal
hearing to determine and resolve the dispute based on the documentation
submitted and any oral testimony. A written opinion shall be rendered within 30
days after the hearing or submission of documentation if no hearing is
conducted. The written opinion of the Director of his or her designee shall
constitute the final DSM determination, and may be challenged by the user by a
written request to the Board for formal consideration within 15 days of the
Director’s opinion.
   (F)   The Board shall conduct a hearing and issue a determination which
shall be binding on the Department of Stormwater Management. The hearing shall
be electronically recorded and a transcript of the hearing provided upon
request at a cost per page as determined by the Department of Stormwater
Management Accounting Department and amended from time to time.
   (G)   A party or person aggrieved by the final Board determination shall
have the right to judicial review of the determination in accordance with state
law.
   (H)   If the DSM recommends the user’s rate be reduced, or reduction is
ordered by the Director, Board, or court of law, user shall be credited
accordingly for any overpayment made from the date of the petition.
   (I)   Dispute or appeal of an ERU determination for stormwater service rate
shall not be a valid reason for non-payment of the originally assessed
stormwater service charge by the user.
(Prior Code, § 54.089) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.075 DISCOUNT AND CREDIT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   This section establishes a discount for land and buildings used for
various purposes when exempt from property taxation under I.C. 6-1.1-10-1, 6-
1.1-10-2, 6-1.1-10-4, 6-1.1-10-5, and 6-1.1-10-16.
   (B)   This section also discusses some of the most common credit
considerations and requirements but is not intended to be the exclusive
authority. The Board, through the rules and regulations of the DSM shall more
fully and completely establish the credit policies and procedures for
stormwater management.
      (1)   Discounts. The following categories of property exempt from
property taxation shall be entitled to a 25% discount off of the gross ERUs
assigned for any land or building under §
54.071 where the statutory exemption has been granted and can be confirmed
through the records of the County Auditor’s office, upon proper application for
the discount:
         (a)   I.C. 6-1.1-10-1. Property of the United States and its agencies
and instrumentalities;
         (b)   I.C. 6-1.1-10-2. Property owned by the state and any agency
thereof or the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles Commission;
         (c)   I.C. 6-1.1-10-4. Property owned by a political subdivision of
the state;
         (d)   I.C. 6-1.1-10-5. Property owned by the city which is used to
provide a municipal service; and
         (e)   I.C. 6-1.1-10-16. Property owned, occupied, and used for
educational, literary, scientific, religious, or charitable purposes.
      (2)   Credit availability.
         (a)   Generally. Credit will be available to all properties for
various forms and levels of abatement.
         (b)   Maintenance requirements. Credit will only be allowed for
properties where structural controls are maintained in fully functional
condition and according to maintenance criteria and design standards issued by
the DSM.
         (c)   Existing structure credits. Credit will be allowed for
previously constructed abatement features or stormwater controls. The amount of
credit granted will be determined by the methods of design as outlined within
the rules and regulations of the DSM.
         (d)   Property location. Credit will be granted on the basis of
location of a given property in relation to a major waterway of the United
States, if it directly discharges its stormwater to that waterway in
conformance with all maintenance criteria and design standards as applicable.
The waterways covered by this section shall include the Grand Calumet River and
the Indiana Harbor Ship Channel, tributaries and other ditches and drains
specified in the rules and regulations of the DSM, and any legal public drains
under the control by the county.
         (e)   Voluntary controls. For new developments, credit will be granted
where the city requires abatement features or stormwater controls to be
constructed and/or maintained, and all city standards and criteria are met.
Other voluntary controls or upgrades of existing systems through retrofitting
will be granted credits on a case-by-case basis considering the impact of the
controls on the city’s stormwater system, as determined by the DSM.
         (f)   Detention/retention. Credit will be granted for qualifying
detention basins and wet ponds. Credit may be granted for other control devices
on a case-by-case basis providing sufficient technical justification is
available to make determinations.
         (g)   Oversized facilities. Oversized private stormwater facilities or
improvements exceeding standard abatement design criteria and intended to serve
an area larger than the immediate project site or designed to handle a larger
than specified storm event as required by the DSM shall be considered for
additional credit.
         (h)   Industrial NPDES permit credits. No credit shall be allowed for
industries in compliance with federal laws and regulations regarding industrial
stormwater discharge permits at this time.
         (i)   Pollution reduction. Credit may be granted on a case-by-case
basis for efforts to reduce the amount of pollutants in a user’s stormwater
runoff or for improvements to the quality of a user’s stormwater discharge.
         (j)   Regional basins. Credit will not be granted to properties
draining into ponds or basins maintained or owned by the city. Credit will be
considered for privately owned and maintained regional controls and will be
apportioned among owners on a prearranged basis.
         (k)   Percent discounted credits for private stormwater facilities.
            1.   Discounts and credits shall be computed on an ERU basis. A
maximum credit of less than 100% of the gross ERUs originally assigned can be
granted for the construction and maintenance of private stormwater facilities
considering the potential of each to reduce peak flow and/or volume stormwater
flow and direct discharge capabilities. Private stormwater facilities eligible
for credits listed above constitute elements of the secondary drainage system.
The secondary system is designed to drain a limited area with benefits limited
to the owners of the particular property or owners of adjacent properties. As
such, secondary elements of the system are not eligible for 100% credit.
            2.   Further, there are administrative costs involved with
operation of the DSM that must be shared by all users, including costs incurred
to meet quality-based permit requirements, which provide community-wide
benefits, and thus cannot be credited. Discounts and credits shall be
cumulative; however, in no case shall the total amount of discounts and credits
equal more than 65% of the user’s gross stormwater service fee.
            3.   The formula for determining the applicable credit percentage
for individual parcels shall be specifically set out in the rules and
regulations of the DSM.
         (l)   Federal, state, city, and county roadways, publicly-owned
airport movement areas. Publicly-owned streets and roads and highway shall be
given 100% credit in reliance on governmental guidance documents which classify
them as an integral part of the stormwater conveyance system. Publicly-owned
airport movement areas including runways, taxiways, ramps, and other areas of
an airport which are used for taxiing or hover taxiing, air taxiing, takeoff,
and landing of aircraft when constructed and maintained similarly to public
roadways, shall also qualify for this credit. The surface water control systems
incorporated in the design of roadways and airport movement are areas
engineered to convey all design runoff without street flooding, and the like
associated with frequent, small runoff events up to about five- or ten-year
recurrence intervals, and as such, constitute elements of the primary drainage
system. Primary elements of the drainage system yield community-wide benefits
and are installed to service the general public’s interests, conveying runoff
from large areas encompassing whole watershed in some cases.
      (3)   Procedure.
         (a)   Timing of applications and/or determinations. Application for
credits shall be made on forms provided by Division of Stormwater Management
and accompanied by the appropriate application fee. The fee shall be an amount
as set by the city from time to time for residential users and another amount
as set by the city from time to time for all others.
            1.   It is the intent of the city that all applications will be
reviewed and credits and discounts determined within 30 days after submittal of
a complete and correct application package. The credit will be effective on the
first billing cycle for that property following completion of construction, or
the date of the application.
            2.   Appeals of credit or discount determinations shall be handled
consistent with the procedures set out above for reconsideration of ERU
petitions. Appeals of credit or discount decisions will be made initially to
the Director, or his or her designee. Should satisfaction not be achieved, an
appeal may be lodged with the Board.
         (b)   Application for credit or discount, or appeal of determination.
Application for credit or discount, or appeal of determination thereon shall
not constitute a valid reason for non-payment of the originally assessed
stormwater service charge by the user.
(Prior Code, § 54.090) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008) Penalty, see §
54.999
§ 54.076 STORMWATER FUND.
   (A)   All revenues earned and fees collected for stormwater service,
including but not limited to, drainage service charges, permit and inspection
fees, direct charges, and interest earnings on any unused funds shall be
deposited in an account entitled City Stormwater Account.
   (B)   Disbursements from this account will be authorized by the Board and,
as required by law, the Common Council. The disbursements will be used
exclusively for the operation, maintenance, and improvement of the city’s
stormwater system.
   (C)   Funds from this account shall not revert to any other Department of
Stormwater Management or Civil City Fund and may not be transferred for any
other purpose, including to avoid a default on bonds or any Department of
Stormwater Management fund or the city.
(Prior Code, § 54.091) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 54.077 DELINQUENT FEES AND PENALTIES AS LIENS; DUPLICATES; COLLECTION.
   Delinquent charges for stormwater services, and applied penalties, recording
fees, and service charges may be made a lien upon the property when the
delinquent party is the property owner and may be collected in accordance with
the provisions of I.C. 36-9-23-32 and 36-9-23-33.
(Prior Code, § 54.092) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008)
§ 54.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Enforcement of §§
54.015,
54.035,
54.050, and 54.065.
      (1)   Enforcement actions generally. Enforcement of this chapter shall be
subject to the severity of the infraction and the responsible party’s efforts
to comply as determined by the Department of Stormwater Management. The
Department shall reserve the right to determine the level of enforcement on a
case-by-case basis. Subject to division (A)(7) below, enforcement actions shall
be initiated by the serving of a notice of violation and may include any one or
more of the following:
         (a)   Verbal warning to the responsible party/parties to make
corrections;
         (b)   Written warning to the responsible party/parties to make
corrections within a specified period of time. The period of time shall take
into account issues such as the severity of the problem, pending weather,
seasonal conditions, and the level of effort necessary to correct the problem;
         (c)   Warning of noncompliance with directions to the responsible
party/parties that site conditions require immediate action;
         (d)   The performance of monitoring, analysis, and reporting;
         (e)   Stop work order;
         (f)   Suspension of access to the stormwater drainage system; and/or
         (g)   Civil penalties and fines.
      (2)   Restoration and remediation. If abatement of a violation and/or
restoration of affected property is required, the notice shall set forth a
deadline within which the remediation or restoration must be completed. The
notice shall further advise that, should the responsible party/parties fail to
remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work will be done by
a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall
be charged to the responsible party/parties.
      (3)   Emergency suspensions. The Department of Stormwater Management may,
without prior notice, suspend access to the stormwater drainage system to a
person or entity when the suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the
stormwater drainage system or waters of the United States. If a responsible
party fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the
Department of Stormwater Management may take steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the stormwater drainage system or waters of the
United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
      (4)   Suspension of access to the stormwater drainage system due to the
detection of illicit discharge. Any person or entity discharging to the agreed
upon by the Board of Stormwater Management and the violator and that further
the goals of the city’s approved stormwater quality management plan.
      (5)   Civil penalty. Any person that has violated or continues to violate
this chapter shall be liable to civil penalties to the fullest extent of the
law, and shall be subject to a fine of up to an amount as set by the city from
time to time per violation per day. Each and every day that the violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense.
      (6)   Fees and costs. The Department of Stormwater Management may recover
all reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, consultant costs, and other
expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and
monitoring expenses to the extent permitted by law.
      (7)   Remedies not exclusive. The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state,
or local law and it is within the discretion of the Department of Stormwater
Management to seek cumulative remedies.
      (8)   Authorized enforcement agencies. The Board of Stormwater
Management, Water Pollution Control Maintenance Department, Division of Public
Works and Department of Stormwater Management, Department of Code Enforcement
and Fire Department of the city, or its subcontractors shall be the agencies
authorized to enforce this chapter of the municipal code.
      (9)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person receiving a notice of
violation may appeal the determination to the Board of Stormwater Management.
         (a)   The notice of appeal must be received within 30 days from the
date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the Board or its
hearing officer shall take place within 30 days from the date of receipt of the
notice of appeal.
         (b)   The decision of the Board or its hearing officer shall be final,
subject to any right of a person to seek judicial review in a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Enforcement of other provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Failure to pay a stormwater user fee when due shall constitute a
violation of this chapter, which shall be enforced by the Director and deputies
as the Director, with the approval of the Board, may appoint for those
purposes.
      (2)   Any nonresidential user charged under division (B)(1) above and
found to be in violation shall be subject to a find of up to an amount as set
by the city from time to time per day and shall be held responsible for the
amount of the outstanding bill, in lieu of a collection action and assessment
of collection or deferred payment charges set out in §
54.073(B) and (C) or lien procedures under §
54.077.
(Prior Code, § 54.999) (Ord. 0-08-0005, passed 3-24-2008)
CHAPTER 55: GARBAGE
Section
Garbage
   
55.001   Definitions
   
55.002   Compliance with chapter
   
55.003   Incinerating and reduction plants
   
55.004   Mixing garbage with certain large articles
   
55.005   Sale of garbage
   
55.006   Hot ashes
   
55.007   Sharp objects
   
55.008   Throwing or depositing garbage; nuisance declared
   
55.009   Unsanitary premises declared unlawful
   
55.010   Disposal of facial tissues and paper handkerchiefs
   
55.011   Vacation of premises; garbage removal required
Containers
   
55.025   Required
   
55.026   Use generally
   
55.027   Specifications
   
55.028   Capacity; number
   
55.029   Location; removal after collection
   
55.030   Disturbance unlawful
   
55.031   Condemnation, confiscation
   
55.032   Using containers of others declared unlawful
   
55.033   Street waste containers
Garbage Collection, Removal, and Disposal
   
55.045   Jurisdiction
55.046 Domestic garbage and trash removal; compliance required
   
55.047   Commercial and industrial garbage and trash removal regulations
   
55.048   Regulations; designated authority
55.049 Interference with collectors
Dumping
55.060 Generally
   
55.061   Permit required
City Landfills
   
55.075   Establishment
   
55.076   Permit for sorting rags and junk required
   
55.077   Regulations; supervision and control; promulgation and posting
 
   
55.999   Penalty
GARBAGE
§ 55.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL GARBAGE OR TRASH. Garbage or trash derived from the operations of
business and not resulting from the ordinary operations of private residences
or households
   DEPOSITOR. Any person who places or directs garbage or trash to be placed in
a receptacle in which he or she is entitled to place garbage or trash, as
required in this chapter.
   GARBAGE. Any rejected or waste food, offal, swill, or carrion, including
waste paper, rags, sweeping, or other small perfectly combustible substances,
but excluding noncombustible and heavy trash, such as ashes, tin cans, plaster,
and similar substances.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. A building or part of a building designed, intended, or
used as an apartment house, apartment hotel, tenement house, or other
residential use in which there is more than one dwelling.
   OCCUPATIONAL UNIT. A building or part of a building, designed as, intended
for, or used for any purpose other than a single dwelling or multiple dwelling.
   TRASH. All ashes of wood, coal, and coke, the residue resulting from the
combustion of any material or substance, soot, cinders, slag, or charcoal,
empty tin cans, empty bottles, empty glass containers, scrap iron wire, metal
articles, brickbats, broken stone, or cement, broken crockery, broken glass,
broken plaster, and other noncombustible and heavy refuse.
(Prior Code, § 55.001) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.002 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   No person shall keep or permit to remain on his or her premises or on any
private property or cast upon any private property, vacant land, or land
belonging to the city or land over which the city has an easement any garbage,
trash, or other offensive or unwholesome matter other than as permitted in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 55.002) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.003 INCINERATING AND REDUCTION PLANTS.
   The city shall build, enlarge, maintain, and operate incinerating and
reduction plants for the sanitary disposition of garbage and filth, to the end
that public dumps may be eliminated insofar as possible, so that public health,
safety, and comfort may be improved and secured.
(Prior Code, § 55.003)
§ 55.004 MIXING GARBAGE WITH CERTAIN LARGE ARTICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or mix with any garbage or other
substance to be collected and burned in the city garbage reduction or
incinerating plants, articles too large to be burned in the incinerating plant.
(Prior Code, § 55.004) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.005 SALE OF GARBAGE.
   No person shall vend or attempt to vend in the city any garbage or any
fruit, vegetable, or other article of food that may be decayed or partially
rotten or that may have been taken from any barrel, box, or other receptacle
for the same in any public way of the city.
(Prior Code, § 55.005) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.006 HOT ASHES.
   (A)   No hot ashes or ashes containing fire or fire coals shall be placed in
any trash container which is not absolutely fireproof.
   (B)   Hot ashes shall not be dumped in contact with or in proximity to any
combustible material, article, building, or structure.
(Prior Code, § 55.006) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.007 SHARP OBJECTS.
   (A)   No person shall throw, drop, place, or deposit or cause to be thrown,
dropped, placed, or deposited in or upon any public way or public bathing beach
any glass bottles, glass, nails, tacks, wire, crockery, goods, or other sharp
or cutting substances injurious or dangerous to the feet of persons or animals
or to the tires or wheels of any kind of vehicle including motor vehicle;
provided, that where any person has accidently or by reason of an accident
dropped from his or her hand or a vehicle any of the aforementioned substances
upon any public way or bathing beach, the penalty herein provided for the
infraction shall not be enforced if the person shall immediately make all
reasonable efforts to clear the place of the same.
   (B)   No person shall throw, drop, or place upon any baseball park, athletic
field, gymnasium, stadium, or other place where games are played any bottles or
other glass receptacles or any broken bottles or other broken instrument or
sharp cutting substances or things.
(Prior Code, § 55.007) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.008 THROWING OR DEPOSITING GARBAGE; NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to cast, throw, sweep, sift, or deposit
in any manner in or upon any public way or other public place in the city or in
or upon the waters of Lake Michigan or any river, canal, public water, drain,
sewer, or receiving basin within the jurisdiction of the city any kind of dirt,
rubbish, waste, article, thing, or substance whatsoever, whether liquid or
solid. No person shall cast, throw, sweep, sift, or deposit any items anywhere
within the jurisdiction of the city in a manner that they may be carried or
deposited, in whole or in part, by the action of the sun, wind, rain, or snow
into any of the places; provided, that this section shall not apply to the
deposit of material under a permit authorized by this code or any ordinance of
the city or to goods, wares, or merchandise deposited upon any public way or
other public place temporarily, in the necessary course of trade and removed
therefrom within two hours after being so deposited or to articles or things
deposited in or conducted into the city sewer system, through lawful drains, in
accordance with this code and the ordinances of the city relating thereto or to
ordinary sidewalk dust and sweepings.
   (B)   The throwing or placing of any ashes, cinders, slag, and rubbish or
trash of any kind whatever upon any street, sidewalk, alley, or gutter or upon
the lands of another without express written permission or in any manner,
except as herein provided in this code, are declared to be nuisances.
   (C)   No person shall throw, place, or cause to be placed into any street,
alley, public ground, or private lot any putrid or unsound meats, fish, hides,
skins of any kind, or any filth, offal, dung, dead animals, vegetables, oyster
shells, tin cans, or rubbish of any kind, or any other deleterious substance or
obnoxious matter which is in any way offensive in any manner whatever or which
will be likely to become putrid or offensive; nor shall any person allow any
abovementioned offensive matter to be or remain upon their premises or in any
outhouse, stable, or other place owned or kept by them or in any alley or
street or public ground in front of or on either side of the premises.
   (D)   Whenever any nuisance shall exist the Health Officer shall take action
to abate the same.
(Prior Code, § 55.008) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.009 UNSANITARY PREMISES DECLARED UNLAWFUL.
   For the purpose of promoting the health and comfort of the citizens, the
cleanliness of the city and preventing noxious and offensive odors therein, or
the creation of public nuisances, it is unlawful, except as otherwise provided
in this code, for any person to place, deposit, permit, or have upon their
premises in the city or upon their premises, whether owned or leased by them,
any one or more of the following unclean, unsanitary, fly producing, disease
causing things, or conditions:
   (A)   Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely protected from
flies;
   (B)   Filthy, littered, or trash covered cellars, house yards, barn yards,
stable yard, factory yards, or vacant lots;
   (C)   Privies;
   (D)   Vaults, pits, or like places which are not securely protected from
flies and rats or which are foul and malodorous;
   (E)   Garbage in any quantity which is not securely protected from flies in
galvanized iron or approved concrete or other approved receptacles; and
   (F)   Trash, litter, rags, accumulations of empty barrels, boxes, crates,
packing cases, excelsior, packing hay, straw, or other packing materials, tin
cans, lumber not neatly piled, or anything whatsoever in which flies or rats
may breed or multiply or which may be a fire danger.
(Prior Code, § 55.009) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.010 DISPOSAL OF FACIAL TISSUES AND PAPER HANDKERCHIEFS.
   No person shall drop, throw, or place any used facial tissue or paper
handkerchief upon any public conveyance or upon the floor of any theater, hall,
assembly room, or public building or upon the surface of any lot or parcel of
ground or on the roof of any building or in any light or air shaft court or
areaway.
(Prior Code, § 55.010) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.011 VACATION OF PREMISES; GARBAGE REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of every person occupying or controlling any lot,
building, or structure or any portion thereof to remove or cause to be removed
therefrom before vacating the same all garbage, ashes, miscellaneous waste, and
manure.
(Prior Code, § 55.011) Penalty, see §
55.999
CONTAINERS
§ 55.025 REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every householder residing in a single-family dwelling shall provide
and at all times maintain adequate containers for garbage and trash in good
condition and repair.
   (B)   Every owner or agent of every multiple dwelling or occupational unit
shall provide and at all times maintain in good order and repair proper
containers for garbage and trash, sufficient in number to contain the
accumulation between dates of regular collections; provided, that the owner or
his or her agent may be relieved of this duty, and the lessee or occupant shall
be required to perform it, when the owner has expressly contracted in writing
with the lessee or occupant that the lessee or occupant shall provide and
maintain the containers; provided further, that if the owner is a nonresident
of the city, the occupant shall be responsible for the furnishing and
maintenance of the containers.
(Prior Code, § 55.025) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.026 USE GENERALLY.
   (A)   Each and every person making or having garbage shall, unless he or she
uses other satisfactory means of disposal, cause the garbage from his or her
premises to be deposited in garbage containers required for that purpose and
shall, before depositing the garbage in containers, drain the garbage of
moisture, and securely wrap it in paper or other combustible material.
   (B)   No garbage shall be allowed to remain exposed in any building or on
any premises a longer time than shall be reasonably necessary to remove and
deposit the same in garbage containers.
   (C)   No person shall throw, place, or deposit garbage in any street or
other public place or private property except in garbage containers as provided
in this chapter.
   (D)   No person shall place trash in any public way or other place without
placing it in suitable and adequate containers to keep it from being blown and
scattered about the public ways or upon other private property.
(Prior Code, § 55.026) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.027 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A container for garbage and trash shall be of sturdy construction,
flyproof, watertight, made of galvanized or nonrusting metal or impervious
material or suitable substitute, approved by the proper city authority, shall
have a close-fitting metal lid or cover, and shall have two suitable handles so
that the containers can be handled easily by one person. The container shall be
kept in suitable condition and shall be covered at all times except when being
filled or emptied.
   (B)   Concrete containers or immovable containers of acceptable
construction, dimensions, and type, first approved by the city, may be used.
(Prior Code, § 55.027) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.028 CAPACITY; NUMBER.
   Garbage and trash containers shall have a capacity of not less than 20
gallons nor more than 55 gallons for each separate family, resident upon the
premises. The containers for each premises shall be of sufficient number and
capacity to contain all garbage and trash which may accumulate on the premises
during the usual intervals between collections.
(Prior Code, § 55.028) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.029 LOCATION; REMOVAL AFTER COLLECTION.
   (A)   All persons who are required to provide garbage or trash containers
shall place them within the private property line at street level in places
convenient for collection and shall keep them there so that the city collectors
may have ready and reasonable access to containers. Containers may be placed in
alleys only when private property is completely occupied or so nearly
completely occupied by structures that the containers cannot be placed within
private property.
   (B)   No garbage or trash container shall be placed in a public way in a
position directly abutting the property of another without express written
permission of the abutting owner. No containers shall be placed on any fire
escape, street or sidewalk; provided, that in parts of the city which have no
alleys, containers shall be placed on the curb temporarily on collection days
only and, in the sections, on the premises or on the sidewalk adjacent thereto.
These containers shall be promptly removed after collections have been made.
   (C)   In any dispute arising between any person and the supervisor of public
works or his or her assistants or other city authority as to the convenient
placing of garbage and trash containers, the dispute shall be finally settled
by the city board having jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 55.029) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.030 DISTURBANCE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person, other than the depositor or any
city employee while in the course of his or her employment, to pick, assort,
take, dump, spill, scatter, remove, disturb, or carry away any garbage or table
refuse from any garbage container or to place, spill, or scatter the containers
on any street, alley, or public place after garbage has been deposited in any
container for collection by the city. The unlawful acts are further declared to
constitute and be nuisances.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person other than the depositor to employ or
induce another, other than a city employee, or for a parent or guardian of any
child to cause or knowingly permit any child to pick, assort, dump, spill,
scatter, disturb, take, or carry away any garbage or table refuse that has been
placed in a garbage container for collection by the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person other than the depositor or owner or the
proper city employee to remove, displace, uncover, or in any manner disturb
garbage or trash containers.
(Prior Code, § 55.030) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.031 CONDEMNATION, CONFISCATION.
   The Supervisor of Public Works or other city authority is authorized to
condemn, seize, take away, and destroy any garbage or trash containers which
are in poor repair or which have rough or sharp edges or other serious defects
which render them dangerous to handle, or which are so dilapidated that they
are unsuitable for holding the materials for which they use was intended;
provided, that before taking action, the Supervisor of Public Works shall cause
written notice to be given to the person owning or having control of containers
stating that the containers are dangerous or unsuitable for use, and that if
the containers are not replaced or repaired satisfactorily prior to the next
collection following the service of notice, the Supervisor of Public Works or
other city authority will condemn, seize, take away, and destroy the unsuitable
containers.
(Prior Code, § 55.031)
§ 55.032 USING CONTAINERS OF OTHERS DECLARED UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to take, carry away, remove, or use the
garbage or trash containers of another without express written permission of
the owner.
(Prior Code, § 55.032) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.033 STREET WASTE CONTAINERS.
   Waste containers of the city placed on the sidewalks and city streets shall
be used only for the waste material as persons may have for disposal while
passing along public ways. These containers shall not be used for the disposal
of trash or garbage accumulated in residences, places of business, or other
places.
(Prior Code, § 55.033) Penalty, see §
55.999
GARBAGE COLLECTION, REMOVAL, AND DISPOSAL
§ 55.045 JURISDICTION.
   For the purpose of collecting, removing, and disposing of all garbage and
trash in a systematic and sanitary manner, the Supervisor of Public Works and
the Sanitary District, Division of Solid Waste Management, is charged with the
duty and empowered to superintend the same.
(Prior Code, § 55.045)
§ 55.046 DOMESTIC GARBAGE AND TRASH REMOVAL; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The city, having the exclusive right, shall systematically collect, remove,
and dispose of all domestic garbage and trash of all its citizens, as provided
in this chapter, who shall faithfully comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 55.046)
§ 55.047 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL GARBAGE AND TRASH REMOVAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The city shall not collect garbage or trash generated at industrial or
commercial sites or locations in the city.
   (B)   Apartment buildings, houses, or structures which have three or more
units or apartments that receive trash collection service shall pay a monthly
fee in the sum of an amount as set by the city from time to time for each
individual dwelling, apartment, or rental unit. For purposes of determining the
number of units or apartments, a unit occupied by the building owner and used
by that owner as his permanent residence will not be counted.
   (C)   The fees so established shall be payable by and be an obligation of
the owner of such property, and shall be billed and collected by the City
Department of Waterworks. Revenues collected under this chapter shall be
considered revenues of the city’s Department of Solid Waste.
   (D)   This section shall be enforced by the City Code Enforcement Officers
pursuant to authority established under Ord. 08-0001 and I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq.,
(The Unsafe Building Law) and other laws and ordinances relating to maintenance
of property.
(Ord. 10-0018, passed 2-14-2011)
§ 55.048 REGULATIONS; DESIGNATED AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Sanitary Commissioners or other proper city authority is
authorized to fix the hours and days of the week for collections of garbage and
trash; and from time to time to adopt regulations not inconsistent with this
chapter, as may be required for collection and disposal of waste materials.
(Prior Code, § 55.048)
§ 55.049 INTERFERENCE WITH COLLECTORS.
   No person shall obstruct, delay, or interfere with the city collectors while
they perform their duties.
(Prior Code, § 55.049) Penalty, see §
55.999
DUMPING
§ 55.060 GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to haul, transport, or convey or cause to be
hauled, transported, or conveyed any garbage, trash, or other waste materials;
or for any person to place or dump the same upon any public property, street,
thoroughfare, or upon any privately owned property; provided, that nothing in
this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the dumping or depositing of dirt,
sand, and gravel, free of all trash, rubbish, and refuse materials of all kinds
upon any lot privately owned, at the request of the owner, for the purpose of
properly elevating the grade of the lot or the unimproved part of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 55.060) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.061 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall allow the dumping of dirt or refuse, organic or inorganic,
of any kind or nature by the public upon any lot or land in his or her
possession in the city without first obtaining a written permit from the City
Health Officer for those purposes.
(Prior Code, § 55.061) Penalty, see §
55.999
CITY LANDFILLS
§ 55.075 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized and empowered to lease
and rent, renew, and re-lease, from time to time, real estate within or without
the corporate limits of the city suitably and conveniently located for the
establishment of public landfills and to make, from time to time, regulations
for the control and use of public landfills as may be necessary and proper with
due regard for the sightliness and cleanliness of the city, for the regulation
and control of landfills not inconsistent, however, with the provisions of this
chapter. The City Health Officer shall make the suggestions he or she deems
advisable.
(Prior Code, § 55.075)
§ 55.076 PERMIT FOR SORTING RAGS AND JUNK REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person except authorized municipal personnel to go
upon any public landfill established and operated under the provisions of this
subchapter, for the purpose of sorting rags, tin cans, paper, junk, or other
materials or for any other purpose without a written permit from the Health
Officer and the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 55.076) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.077 REGULATIONS; SUPERVISION AND CONTROL; PROMULGATION AND POSTING.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety or proper city authority shall at
all times exercise supervision and control over public landfills as it may
establish under the provisions of this chapter, shall fix convenient hours
during each week at which the public land fills may be used by the public and
shall post conspicuously, at the entrance to each landfill, regulations as the
Board of Public Works and Safety may from time to time adopt regulating its
use.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to violate any regulation of the Board
of Public Works and Safety so posted for the regulation and control of
landfills.
(Prior Code, § 55.077) Penalty, see §
55.999
§ 55.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of §
55.047 shall be a fine in an amount not exceeding an amount as set by the city
from time to time. Each day that any person shall violate any of the provisions
of this section shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punished as a
separate offense.
(Ord. 09-0026, passed 12-28-2009; Ord. 10-0018, passed 2-14-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   PARKING METERS
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   BICYCLES
      
76.   RAILROADS
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Compliance
   
70.003   Interpretation and construction
   
70.004   Applicability
Vehicles and Operation
   
70.015   Exemptions for authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.016   Riding on part of vehicle not intended for use of passengers
   
70.017   Boarding or alighting from vehicles
   
70.018   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
70.019   Trees or signs obstructing traffic at street intersections
   
70.020   Obstruction of streets by railroad trains
   
70.021   Tractor-trailers
   
70.022   Street vendors’ vehicles
   
70.023   Permit for moving large equipment required
   
70.024   Radar detecting devices
   
70.025   Direction of traffic by police and fire officials
   
70.026   Intercity bus routes; operation authority
   
70.027   Attendant at gasoline or service station
   
70.028   Offensive or dangerous public garages or other sites declared public
nuisance
Parades and Processions
   
70.040   Parades and processions
   
70.041   Identification of funeral processions
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.055   Temporary regulations; testing traffic-control devices
   
70.056   Traffic control devices; damage, destruction, or absence reports
Traffic Reports
   
70.070   Annual traffic report
   
70.071   Damaged vehicles; reports
   
70.072   Traffic accidents; procedures and reports
Enforcement; Impounding
   
70.085   Impounding vehicles; procedures after impoundment
   
70.086   Traffic violation notices
Traffic Bureau
   
70.100   Creation
   
70.101   Records; spot maps
   
70.102   Powers and duties
   
70.103   Assistance of City Engineer
Cafeteria Court
   
70.115   Establishment
   
70.116   Duties
   
70.117   Records and reports of notices and arrests
   
70.118   Procedures
   
70.119   Election to appear at Cafeteria Court or before City Judge
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. Any passage or way for public use which serves rear entrances to real
property.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the police and fire forces,
vehicles assigned to or authorized for official use by state and federal peace
officers, vehicles of the armed forces of the United States while actually
engaged in official business and ambulances, and emergency vehicles of the
municipal departments of the city, of the United States, of the state, of the
county and the repair or service vehicles of any public service corporation
while actually engaged in emergency service and which vehicles may be
specifically designated or authorized as that by the Board of Public Works and
Safety.
   AUTOMOBILE TRAILER, TRAILER COACH, TRAILER, CAMPER, or HOUSE CAR. A vehicle
or structure so designed and constructed in a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof for sleeping quarters for one or more persons, or the conduct of
business or profession, occupation, or trade (or use as a selling or
advertising device), and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and
used as a conveyance on highways or city streets, propelled or drawn by its own
or other motive power.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
   BOARD. Unless otherwise stated, means the Board of Public Works and Safety
of the city.
   BOAT TRAILER. Every vehicle without motor power designed and including every
pole trailer and every two-wheel homemade trailer when used to haul boats.
   BUREAU. Unless otherwise stated, means the Traffic Bureau of the Police
Department of the city.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying passengers for hire and used
for the transportation of persons and every motor vehicle other than a taxicab
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUS LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
50% or more of the frontage thereon for a distance of 500 feet or more is
occupied by buildings in use for business.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway at an intersection, included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of the sidewalks from the curb
to the opposite curbs, when unmarked, also any portion of a roadway at an
intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   FAR SIDE BUS STOPS. A bus loading zone established immediately beyond any
intersection or established within any block, excepting those immediately
preceding any intersection.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight during the
times prescribed.
   HOLIDAY. January 1, May 30, July 4, the first Monday in September, December
25, the day designated and set aside by the President of the United States as a
day of Thanksgiving, and the first day of the week, commonly called Sunday.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two highways which join one another at or approximately at right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways, joining at
any other angle, may come in conflict.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into three or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LIMITED-ACCESS STREET OR HIGHWAY. Every highway, street, or roadway in
respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other
persons have no legal right of access to or from the same, except at points
only and in a manner as may be determined by the public authority having
jurisdiction over the highway, street, or roadway.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, but not operated upon
rails or tracks.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   MUNICIPAL PARKING LOT. The area owned, operated, or leased for operation by
the municipality and used for off-street parking of vehicles.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this title,
unless otherwise provided, it shall mean United States Central Standard time or
daylight savings time, as may be in current use in the city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of the Board
of Public Works and Safety or official having jurisdiction for the purpose of
regulating, warning, or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually,
electrically, or mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately
directed to stop, slow down, or proceed.
   OWNER OF VEHICLE. A person who holds the legal title to a vehicle or the
conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading or in obedience to traffic regulations or official traffic
signs or signals.
   PARKWAY. The portion of a public street or way between the sidewalk and curb
or between the sidewalk and roadway where there is no curb.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every member of the city police force and any person duly
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner or manager and those having express or
implied permission from the owner or manager, but not by other persons.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon
stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam, electric, oil, motor, or otherwise driven or
propelled engine or locomotive, with or without cars coupled thereto, operated
upon rails.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district, when the property on the highway for a distance
of 500 feet or more is in the main improved with residences and buildings in
use for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or highway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed, or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP or STOPPING.
      (1)   Complete cessation of movement.
      (2)   When prohibited, STOP or STOPPING means any stopping of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic-
control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any party thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   TAXICAB STAND. A fixed area along the curb, set aside for taxicabs to stand
or wait for passengers.
   THROUGH STREET OR HIGHWAY. Every street or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to stop
before entering or crossing the same and where stop signs or traffic control
signals are erected as provided in this chapter.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for purposes of
travel.
   TRAFFIC CODE. This title, together with its schedules and amendments, if
any.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transporting of property, including tractors, trailers, and commercial
vehicles.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 70.001) (Ord. 3092, passed - -1975)
§ 70.002 COMPLIANCE.
   It is unlawful for any person to do forbidden acts or fail to perform any
act required in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 70.002) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.003 INTERPRETATION AND CONSTRUCTION.
   This title shall be interpreted and construed in harmony with I.C. 9-13-1 et
seq., and nothing herein shall be construed or interpreted to be in conflict
therewith.
(Prior Code, § 70.003)
§ 70.004 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal
upon a roadway and every person driving any animal-drawn or other vehicle shall
be subject to the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any
vehicle, except those provisions of this title which by their very nature can
have no application and except as persons riding bicycles are subject to
additional or special rules by law or this code.
   (B)   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by or used in the service of the United States government, this state,
county, or city and it is unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted by this title or by
state law.
   (C)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety
of others.
(Prior Code, § 70.004) Penalty, see §
70.999
VEHICLES AND OPERATION
§ 70.015 EXEMPTIONS FOR AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles as defined in
this chapter except as follows.
   (B)   A driver when operating any vehicle in an emergency on public
business, except when otherwise directed by a police officer, may do any one or
all of the following:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and/or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   Those exemptions granted in reference to the movement of an authorized
emergency vehicle shall apply only when the driver of the vehicle sounds a
siren, bell, or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary and the vehicle
displays a lighted red lamp visible from the front as a warning to others.
(Prior Code, § 70.015)
§ 70.016 RIDING ON PART OF VEHICLE NOT INTENDED FOR USE OF PASSENGERS.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to any employee engaged in the
necessary discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in space
intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 70.016) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.017 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while the vehicle is in
motion.
(Prior Code, § 70.017) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.018 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller
skates, or any toy vehicle shall not attach the same or himself or herself to
any moving vehicle upon any street.
(Prior Code, § 70.018) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.019 TREES OR SIGNS OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC AT STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No owner, occupant, or tenant of any real estate abutting any
street intersection shall permit any trees, plants, or shrubbery at any
intersection or within 20 feet from the intersecting curbs of the intersection
which obstructs or tends to obstruct the view of any operator of a vehicle or
of a pedestrian approaching an intersection, nor shall the owner or occupant of
the real estate permit any shrubbery, trees, or plants within 20 feet of the
curb intersection to grow to a height in excess of four feet from the grade of
the street at the intersection.
      (2)   Any owner or occupant of any property abutting a street or street
intersection who shall fail to comply with this division shall be given notice
of the noncompliance by the Police Department which shall leave a copy of the
notice with any occupant or owner of the real estate, or shall post the same on
the real estate, and failure to comply with the notice within five days shall
constitute a violation of this section.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, or tenant of any real estate abutting any street
or intersection shall permit any sign or banner of any kind which obstructs or
tends to obstruct the view of any operator of a vehicle or of a pedestrian
approaching the intersection.
   (C)   No owner, occupant, or tenant of any real estate abutting any street
shall permit any sign, reflectors, or lights of any description which glare or
tend to obstruct or interfere with the vision of motorists upon the public
streets.
   (D)   No person shall permit or maintain any stand or obstruction of any
kind upon any sidewalk near an intersection which tends to obstruct the vision
of motorists, the view of traffic signals or is hazardous to traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.019) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.020 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS BY RAILROAD TRAINS.
   It is unlawful for the directing officer or the operator of any railroad
train to violate the provisions of this title or to direct the operation of or
to operate the same in a manner as to prevent the use of any street for
purposes of travel for a period of time longer than five minutes; provided,
that this provision shall not apply to trains or cars in motion other than
those engaged in switching.
(Prior Code, § 70.020) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.021 TRACTOR-TRAILERS.
   (A)   No person shall permit any trailer in any public way at any time,
whether the tractor is disabled or not, without keeping the tractor attached or
in proximity.
   (B)   Police officers shall have the power to remove the vehicles which
obstruct traffic as provided in §§
70.085,
70.086,
70.100 through
70.103 and
70.115 through
70.119 and §
70.999.
(Prior Code, § 70.021) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.022 STREET VENDORS’ VEHICLES.
   Vehicles used by licensed street vendors when engaged in their licensed
business on the city streets or alleys must be kept in motion, except when
making sales, and their movements must be timed and executed so as to cause a
minimum of interference with traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.022) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.023 PERMIT FOR MOVING LARGE EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any large equipment, machinery, or apparatus over the
public streets without first obtaining a special permit from the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 70.023) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.024 RADAR DETECTING DEVICES.
   No person in the city shall sell or offer for sale or use or have in his or
her possession in a motor vehicle any device designed to detect or counteract
police radar.
(Prior Code, § 70.024) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.025 DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC BY POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Officers of the Police Department or officers as are assigned by the
Chief of Police are authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand, or signal
in conformance with traffic laws; provided, that, in the event of a fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, police
officers may direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the
provisions of the traffic laws and this chapter. Members of the Fire
Department, when at the scene of a fire or emergency, may direct or assist the
police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
   (B)   No person shall fail or wilfully refuse to comply with any lawful
traffic order or direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(Prior Code, § 70.025) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.026 INTERCITY BUS ROUTES; OPERATION AUTHORITY.
   (A)   No intercity bus company shall be authorized to operate upon any of
the streets in this city solely by virtue of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   The right of the bus company to operate on the public streets shall be
first established independently of this chapter by some law or authority.
   (C)   If and when the intercity bus service is duly authorized upon the
public streets of this city, the service shall be operated and maintained and
service shall be provided only upon the streets provided in a schedule to be
adopted by the Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 70.026) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.027 ATTENDANT AT GASOLINE OR SERVICE STATION.
   No person shall maintain, manage, or operate any gasoline station or service
station, from or by which gasoline is dispensed without the service of an
attendant.
(Prior Code, § 70.027) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.028 OFFENSIVE OR DANGEROUS PUBLIC GARAGES OR OTHER SITES DECLARED PUBLIC
NUISANCE.
   Any public garage, used car lot, automobile service station, truck depot, or
terminal, truck trailer, bus, or taxicab stand or stop, garage, or lot, parking
lot, or space which shall become noxious, foul, offensive, or dangerous and
prejudicial to public health, or which shall seriously or permanently interfere
with life or safety by the testing or running of gasoline engines at various
speeds, backfire or the emitting of smoke and gases, odors of gasoline or oils,
or the stirring up of dust and dirt or which shall block access to any
sidewalk, street, or alley or parkway or which shall cause the accumulation of
unsightly automobiles which are unlicensed or unable to operate or both is
declared a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 70.028) Penalty, see §
70.999
PARADES AND PROCESSIONS
§ 70.040 PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   No procession or parade containing 200 or more persons or 50 or more
vehicles, excepting the forces of the United States Army or Navy, the military
forces of this state and the forces of the Police and Fire Departments, shall
occupy, march, or proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit
issued by the Chief of Police or the Board of Public Works and Safety and other
regulations as are set forth in this title which may apply.
(Prior Code, § 70.040) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.041 IDENTIFICATION OF FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as that
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other
identifying insignia or by other method as may be determined and designated by
the Traffic Bureau.
(Prior Code, § 70.041) Penalty, see §
70.999
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.055 TEMPORARY REGULATIONS; TESTING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Chief of Police is empowered to make and enforce temporary or
experimental regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions. No
temporary or experimental regulations shall remain in effect for more than 60
days. The Traffic Bureau may test traffic-control devices under actual
conditions of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.055)
§ 70.056 TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES; DAMAGE, DESTRUCTION, OR ABSENCE REPORTS.
   It is declared to be the duty of every police officer to report promptly, in
writing, to the Chief of Police the absence, destruction, or damage to any
official traffic-control devices or signals required to be erected or
maintained under the provisions of this chapter of which he or she has
knowledge. The Chief shall thereupon promptly report or cause the same to be
reported to the persons under the jurisdiction of the Board of Public Works and
Safety employed for the erection and maintenance of the devices or signals.
(Prior Code, § 70.056)
TRAFFIC REPORTS
§ 70.070 ANNUAL TRAFFIC REPORT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall annually prepare a traffic report which
shall be filed with the Board and the City Clerk.
   (B)   The report shall include all information pertinent to the number of
traffic accidents, accident trends, the number of accidents investigated,
arrests made as a result of investigations, the number of moving traffic
violation arrests, the number of parking violation arrests and other data on
the traffic activities of the Department. The report shall also contain
suggestions for improvements in traffic control and regulation.
(Prior Code, § 70.070)
§ 70.071 DAMAGED VEHICLES; REPORTS.
   (A)   Every person to whom is brought for repairs or other services,
including storage, any motor vehicle which shows evidence of having been
involved in an accident or struck by any bullet shall make a report to the
police headquarters of this city immediately upon the motor vehicles being so
received.
   (B)   The report shall specify a full and complete description of the
vehicle, including the motor number, factory, body number, color, type, model,
and other marks of identification, the license plate number, and the name and
address of the owner or operator of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 70.071) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.072 TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS; PROCEDURES AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident in the city resulting
in an injury to or death of any person or damage to property shall immediately,
by the quickest means of communication, give notice of the accident to the
Police Department.
   (B)   Any police officer who, while in the discharge of his or her duties,
goes to the scene of and investigates any accident caused by or resulting from
the operation, maintenance, or use of any vehicle upon or along any public way
in the city and which accident results in bodily injury or death or damage to
property or any person shall obtain the following information, if available:
      (1)   Name and address of the owner and operator of any vehicle involved
in the accident, together with a description of all applicable operator’s
licenses;
      (2)   The license number and description of any vehicle involved in the
accident;
      (3)   Time and place the accident occurred;
      (4)   Names and addresses of any person injured or killed in the
accident; and
      (5)   Names and addresses of persons who were witnesses to the accident.
   (C)   All accident reports shall be for the confidential use of the Police
Department, except as hereinafter provided in this title.
   (D)   In addition to the above, the Police Department shall obtain any other
information as may be required for proper investigation.
   (E)   The Police Department, from information or reports in its files, shall
promptly, on demand, furnish to any person who has sustained any loss or damage
by reason of the injury or death of any person caused by or resulting from the
operation, maintenance, or use of any vehicle on any public way of this city
and shall promptly, on demand, furnish to any person who has sustained any loss
or damage to property as a result of the accident, the information required in
division (B) above. Any person so entitled to the information may obtain the
same from the Police Department either in person or through his or her duly
authorized attorney or agent; provided, that the attorney or agent shall first
file with the Police Department a verified written authorization therefor,
executed by the person so entitled to the information. If the prosecuting
attorney of the county shall advise the Police Department that, in his or her
opinion, the information should not be released to any person and shall assign
as his or her reason that criminal charges have been filed or are contemplated
being filed against any person as a result of the accident, the Police
Department shall thereupon withhold information until its release has been
approved by the prosecuting attorney.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to be in conflict with
state law concerning reports required by persons involved in motor vehicle
accidents.
(Prior Code, § 70.072) Penalty, see §
70.999
ENFORCEMENT; IMPOUNDING
§ 70.085 IMPOUNDING VEHICLES; PROCEDURES AFTER IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are authorized to remove a vehicle
from a street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place to the nearest garage or
other place of safety or to a garage designated or maintained by the Police
Department or otherwise maintained by this city, under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct, or
parkway or where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic;
      (2)   When a vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is, by reason of
physical injury, incapacitated to an extent as to be unable to provide for the
custody or removal of the vehicle;
      (3)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic;
      (4)   When any vehicle is parked illegally on a public street or a public
place;
      (5)   When any vehicle has been apparently abandoned; and
      (6)   Whenever there is an accumulation of three or more unsatisfied
offenses charged to any individual’s state license registration number and the
motor vehicle bearing the number shall be found upon the streets of the city.
The vehicle shall be driven or towed off the street under the direction of the
Police Department to a storage site as may be designated by any police officer
in charge. Should the owner of the vehicle appear to claim the same, he or she
shall be booked for appearance in the City Court on all the aforementioned
offenses. The vehicle shall not be returned to the owner until he or she has
paid the towing charges, if any. The towing charges shall be set by the Chief
of Police not to exceed an amount as set by the city from time to time.
   (B)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street as authorized in
division (A) above and the officer knows or is able to ascertain from the
registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner thereof,
the officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in writing to
the owner. The notice shall state the fact of the removal and the reasons
therefor and the place to which the vehicle has been removed. In the event any
vehicle is stored in a public garage, a copy of the notice shall be given to
the proprietor of the garage.
   (C)   Members of the police force are authorized, for the purpose of this
section, to use force as may be necessary to enter any vehicle described in
division (A) above and cause any vehicle to be placed in condition to be moved
and may employ any reputable person engaged in the business of towing or
storing vehicles for the purposes.
   (D)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street under division (A)
above and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of the owner, or
for any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner, as provided in
division (B) above and in the event the vehicle is not returned to the owner
within a period of three days, then and in that event the officer shall
immediately send or cause to be sent written report of the removal by mail to
the Secretary of State, as provided by law for impounding of abandoned motor
vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 70.086) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.086 TRAFFIC VIOLATION NOTICES.
   (A)   Whenever a member of the police force of the city shall find that any
one or more provisions of this chapter are being or have been violated by the
owner or operator of any vehicle and the owner or operator has not thereby
caused or is not involved in an accident or collision with any other vehicle or
pedestrian, the officer shall give notice to the owner or operator of the
vehicle in writing, of the violation. The notice shall be made in triplicate,
and shall be serially numbered, and shall show the specific violation charged,
the state license number and make of the vehicle, and the owner’s name, if
readily available. The notice shall be signed by the officer, who shall state
thereon his or her badge number, if any. One copy of the notice shall be
presented to the owner or operator of the vehicle. In case the owner or his or
her representative shall not be found in possession or in charge of the
vehicle, the placing of the notice upon the vehicle shall be deemed a
sufficient notice of the violation. It shall be the duty of the officer serving
the notice to file one copy thereof in the Office of the Police Traffic Bureau
at the close of the day’s work and one copy in the Cafeteria Court.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall provide in triplicate suitable serially numbered
forms for notifying violators to appear and answer to charges of violating this
chapter or other traffic laws and ordinances. The forms shall be issued to and
receipted for by the Chief of Police or other person acting for him or her. The
City Clerk shall report each month to the Chief of Police the disposal made by
the police of all triplicate forms issued to them. For this purpose, the City
Clerk or his or her representative shall have access to the necessary records
of the Police Department, the City Traffic Courts, and the Cafeteria Court.
These reports shall be public records.
(Prior Code, § 70.087)
TRAFFIC BUREAU
§ 70.100 CREATION.
   A Traffic Bureau is created and established in the Police Department which
shall be under the control of a commanding officer designated by and directly
responsible to the Chief of Police and the Board of Public Works and Safety.
The Bureau shall consist of the personnel recommended by the Chief of Police
and approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety. Its members shall be
especially highly trained in traffic administration, regulation, and
enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 70.100)
§ 70.101 RECORDS; SPOT MAPS.
   The Traffic Bureau of the Police Department shall maintain a standard system
of filing traffic accident reports showing the types and numbers of traffic
accidents and arrests and warnings issued to traffic law violators. The Bureau
shall also maintain spot maps showing the type and location of traffic
accidents.
(Prior Code, § 70.101)
§ 70.102 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Bureau and the Police Department
to enforce the traffic regulations of this city and all state vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in this city, to make arrests for traffic
violations, to investigate all traffic accidents, to assist in prosecution of
persons guilty of traffic violations, to cooperate with other offices of the
city in the administration of the street traffic laws and in developing ways
and means to improve traffic conditions and to carry out those duties specially
imposed by this chapter and other traffic ordinances of the city.
   (B)   The Traffic Bureau of the Police Department shall make frequent
studies and analyses of all accident and arrest reports and records and shall
utilize the information to work out ways and means for accident prevention.
      (2)   The Traffic Bureau shall regularly inspect the installation, proper
timing, and maintenance of traffic control devices and signs, conduct
engineering analyses of accidents, devise remedial measures, conduct
engineering investigations of traffic conditions, and cooperate with proper
city authority in the development of ways and means to improve traffic
conditions and the enforcement of traffic regulations.
   (C)   (1)   The Traffic Bureau shall investigate matters affected or related
to traffic as are referred to it by the Chief of Police or Board of Public
Works and Safety and shall, when requested, make its recommendations.
      (2)   The Traffic Bureau shall recommend to the Chief, for action by the
Board of Public Works and Safety, play streets, loading zones, parking
regulations, cab stands, bus stops, and other related matters.
      (3)   The Chief of Police and the Traffic Bureau shall have power to
establish temporary zones of quiet and shall also direct the maintenance and
placing of traffic signs or devices in the manner authorized.
(Prior Code, § 70.102)
§ 70.103 ASSISTANCE OF CITY ENGINEER.
   The City Engineer and his or her office shall fully assist the Traffic
Bureau and shall perform the engineering work for the Bureau when required.
(Prior Code, § 70.103)
CAFETERIA COURT
§ 70.115 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Judge of the City Court may establish a Cafeteria Court in the
office of the City Clerk to assist the Court with the clerical work of traffic
cases.
   (B)   The Cafeteria Court shall be in charge of persons as may be appointed
therefor by the City Clerk and shall be open at hours as are agreed to between
the City Judge and City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 70.115)
§ 70.116 DUTIES.
   The following duties are imposed upon the Cafeteria Court in reference to
traffic offenses.
   (A)   It shall accept designated fines, issue receipts, and represent in
Court violators as are permitted and desire to plead guilty, waive Court
appearance and give power of attorney.
   (B)   It shall receive and issue receipts for cash bail from the persons who
must or wish to be heard in Court, enter the time of their appearance on the
Court docket, and notify the arresting officer and witnesses, if any, to be
present.
   (C)   It shall keep a easily accessible record of all violations of which
the person has been guilty during the preceding 12 months, whether the guilt
was established in Court or in the Cafeteria Court.
   (D)   It shall file or cause affidavits to be filed charging persons with
specific violations who fail to appear in Cafeteria Court when notified, and
shall cause warrants to be issued for the arrests of the persons.
   (E)   It shall keep accurate public records of the money received and pay
the same over to the Treasurer and account for the same to the City Controller
in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 70.116)
§ 70.117 RECORDS AND REPORTS OF NOTICES AND ARRESTS.
   The Cafeteria Court shall keep records and submit summarized monthly reports
to the City Court, the Chief of Police and the City Attorney of all notices
issued and arrests made for violations of this chapter or other traffic laws
and ordinances in the city, of all the fines collected by the Cafeteria Court,
and of the final disposition or present status of every case of violation of
the provisions of this chapter or laws and ordinances. The records shall be so
maintained as to show all types of violations and the totals of each. The
records shall be public records.
(Prior Code, § 70.117)
§ 70.118 PROCEDURES.
   The Cafeteria Court shall follow a procedure as may be prescribed by this
chapter or the traffic ordinances of this city or as may be required by any
laws of this state.
(Prior Code, § 70.118)
§ 70.119 ELECTION TO APPEAR AT CAFETERIA COURT OR BEFORE CITY JUDGE.
   (A)   Any person charged with a traffic offense for which payment of a fine
may be made to the Cafeteria Court shall have the option of paying the fine in
full within the time specified in the notice of arrest at the Cafeteria Court
upon entering a plea of guilty and upon waiving appearance in Court; or the
person may have the option of depositing the required lawful bail, if required
by law, and upon a plea of not guilty shall be entitled to a trial before the
Court as authorized by law. If there is a trial before the Court and the person
is found guilty, he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   The payment of a fine to the Cafeteria Court shall be deemed an
acknowledgment of conviction of the alleged offense and the Cafeteria Court,
upon accepting the prescribed fine, shall issue a receipt to the violator
acknowledging payment.
(Prior Code, § 70.119)
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Appearance of violator in Court; payment of fines; fine schedules. The
owner or operator of a vehicle who has been notified of a violation of this
chapter, as provided in §
70.086, shall, within 72 hours after having been so notified, appear at the
City Court. There, he or she may plead not guilty and demand a trial at a time
to be fixed by the Court. If he or she desires to exercise the option of paying
to the Cafeteria Court, he or she shall answer to the City Court at the
Cafeteria Court and shall, by so doing, plead guilty to the charge of the
violation and pay the fine prescribed in this chapter. The acceptance of the
fine and plea shall be deemed complete satisfaction for the violation, and the
violator shall be given a receipt which so states; provided, that the
prescribed fines upon the pleas of guilty shall be as follows:
      (1)   (a)   If the owner or operator of the motor vehicle shall admit and
plead guilty to have violated any provision of any one of the following
sections, he or she shall thereupon pay to the Cafeteria Court a minimum fine
of $25, including parking meter violations, for each violation plus court
costs: §§
70.016,
70.018,
70.022,
71.001,
71.017,
71.019,
71.020(B),
71.055,
71.056,
71.086,
71.088(A),
72.001,
72.003,
72.046,
72.047,
72.049,
72.050,
72.052,
72.055,
72.059,
72.076,
72.077,
72.079,
72.080,
74.002,
74.003,
74.005,
74.006,
74.009, and
74.011.
         (b)   Any fine assessed for a non-moving violation, including parking
meter violations, which remains unpaid 30 days from the date the fine is
assessed, shall automatically increase to $50 plus court costs.
         (c)   If there is failure to pay the above scheduled fine within 45
days from the date of the ticket, a summons shall be issued to appear in City
Court and a minimum fine of $75 plus court costs shall be assessed.
      (2)   Missing material.... §§
71.085,
72.019,
72.046,
72.058,
72.082,
71.104,
71.106, and
71.108; he or she shall pay to the Cafeteria Court a fine of $15 for each
violation, plus court costs.
      (3)   Whenever any person has been issued a notice as provided in this
chapter for the violation of any of the sections listed in divisions (A)(1) and
(A)(2) above and shall fail and refuse to appear in the City Court within 72
hours after issuance of the notice or, when appearing at the Cafeteria Court,
shall fail or refuse to plead guilty to the charge and pay the fine prescribed
therefor without delay, then it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to file or
cause to be filed, in the City Court, an affidavit charging the person with the
violation specified in the notice and to cause a warrant to be issued arresting
the person and requiring his or her appearance in the City Court to answer the
charge and stand trial for the same. It shall be the duty of the officer to be
present and to assist in the prosecution of the charge and, upon conviction in
the City Court or in any court of competent jurisdiction, the person shall be
deemed guilty of the violation of a city ordinance and shall be subject to the
penalty provided in this section.
   (B)   Disposition of traffic fines and forfeitures. All fines or forfeitures
collected upon conviction, pleas of guilty or upon the forfeiture of bail of
any person charged with the violation of any of the provisions of this title
shall be paid to and be accounted by the Cafeteria Court as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 70.999) (Ord. 12-0017, passed 6-15-2012; Ord. 19-0016, passed 8-
26-2019)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Operation Generally
   
71.001   One-way streets
   
71.002   Designation of through or preferential streets
   
71.003   Slow intersections designated
   
71.004   Exceptions to state speed laws
   
71.005   Procedure upon approach of authorized emergency vehicle
   
71.006   Following fire apparatus; driving into block where fire apparatus has
stopped
   
71.007   Horns or warning devices
   
71.008   Obstructions to driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
71.009   Driving across fire hose
   
71.010   Driving through or in safety zones
   
71.011   Driving through processions
   
71.012   Driving in processions
   
71.013   Driving over curbs or within parks or playgrounds
   
71.014   Operating noisy vehicle
   
71.015   Operating vehicle emitting smoke or fumes
   
71.016   Towing vehicles generally
   
71.017   Backing
   
71.018   Riding on motorcycles
   
71.019   Emerging from alley, private driveway, or building
   
71.020   Blocking intersections or crosswalks
Crossing Bridges
   
71.035   Right-of-way for fire apparatus
   
71.036   Attempting to cross while opening or shutting; disobeying orders of
bridge tender
   
71.037   Speed limit
   
71.038   Obstructing bridges or approaches
   
71.039   Vehicles to keep right
   
71.040   Breaking into line of traffic; disobeying or resisting officer
Special Uses of Public Ways
   
71.055   Zones of quiet
   
71.056   Play streets
Commercial and Heavy Vehicles
   
71.070   Truck routes
   
71.071   Trucks passing each other
   
71.072   Trucks and heavy or slower moving vehicles
Turning Movements
   
71.085   Method of turning at intersections; generally
   
71.086   Determination and marking of no turn intersections; prohibition of
turns at certain times
   
71.087   Directional signals, markers, or other indications
   
71.088   Limitations on turning around
Signs, Signals, and Markers
   
71.100   Existing signs and signals
   
71.101   Designation of crosswalks, safety zones, and traffic lanes
   
71.102   General authority to install and maintain devices
   
71.103   Manual and specifications
   
71.104   Obedience generally
   
71.105   Enforcement; when
   
71.106   Traffic-control signal legends
   
71.107   Special pedestrian-control signals
   
71.108   Flashing signals
   
71.109   Location of traffic-control signals generally
   
71.110   Unauthorized display
   
71.111   Interference with traffic-control devices prohibited
Open Alcoholic Beverage Containers in Passenger Vehicles
   
71.125   Definitions
   
71.126   Possession or consumption prohibited
   
71.127   Operator or owner of motor vehicle in violation
   
71.128   Signs to be posted
 
   
71.999   Penalty
OPERATION GENERALLY
§ 71.001 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever any provision of this code or other ordinance designates any
one-way street or alley, the Chief of Police shall cause signs to be placed and
maintained, giving notice thereof, and no regulation shall be effective unless
the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when
signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited upon those
streets and parts of streets and in those alleys described in the schedule on
file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 71.001)
§ 71.002 DESIGNATION OF THROUGH OR PREFERENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   For the purpose of regulating traffic upon or crossing the same,
through or preferential streets are established as designated by City Council
from time to time. A schedule of the streets is maintained on file in the City
Clerk’s office. Every operator of a vehicle, bicycle, or other conveyance
traveling upon any street intersecting any through street, shall come to a full
and complete stop before entering a through street and shall give the right-or-
way to vehicles traveling upon the through street and shall not enter or cross
the through street in dangerous proximity to any vehicle traveling upon the
through street.
   (B)   As provided in this chapter, vehicles shall stop at stop signs except
where otherwise directed by operating traffic-control signals or by a police
officer.
(Prior Code, § 71.002) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.003 SLOW INTERSECTIONS DESIGNATED.
   The City Council may from time to time designate certain intersections as
slow intersections. A schedule of the intersections is maintained in the City
Clerk’s office. It shall be illegal for any person to fail to slow his or her
motor vehicle at the slow sign before proceeding through the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 71.003) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.004 EXCEPTIONS TO STATE SPEED LAWS.
   (A)   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be
applicable upon all streets within this city, except as otherwise established
by ordinance, as authorized by state law, and if it is determined upon the
basis of engineering and traffic investigation that certain other speed
regulations shall be applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas. In
which event it shall be prima facie unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle
at a speed in excess of any speed so declared when signs are in place giving
notice thereof.
   (B)   A schedule of the streets is maintained on file in the City Clerk’s
office.
(Prior Code, § 71.004) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.005 PROCEDURE UPON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
equipped with at least one lighted lamp exhibiting red light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and when the driver is giving audible signal by siren, exhaust whistle,
or bell; the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel and as close as possible to the
right-hand edge of curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall stop
and remain in the position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(Prior Code, § 71.005) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.006 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS; DRIVING INTO BLOCK WHERE FIRE APPARATUS HAS
STOPPED.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park the vehicle within the block where fire apparatus
has stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 71.006) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.007 HORNS OR WARNING DEVICES.
   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a street shall be equipped with a
horn or warning device in good working order. It is unlawful for any person to
use or employ a horn or other signal device, motor, or musical cut-out or any
signal device for any purpose except to ensure the reasonable safe operation of
the motor vehicle in traffic or in emergencies.
(Prior Code, § 71.007) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.008 OBSTRUCTIONS TO DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded or when there are
in the front seat the number of persons exceeding three as to obstruct the view
of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with the
driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with his or her
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.008) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.009 DRIVING ACROSS FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department,
when laid down on any street, private driveway, or railroad track, to be used
at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command.
(Prior Code, § 71.009) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.010 DRIVING THROUGH OR IN SAFETY ZONES.
   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety zone.
(Prior Code, § 71.010) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.011 DRIVING THROUGH PROCESSIONS.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when the vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in this chapter. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control
signals or police officers.
(Prior Code, § 71.011) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.012 DRIVING IN PROCESSIONS.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the street as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practical and safe.
(Prior Code, § 71.012) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.013 DRIVING OVER CURBS OR WITHIN PARKS OR PLAYGROUNDS.
   The operator of a vehicle shall not drive over any curb, nor within any
public sidewalk or parking area, except at an authorized permanent or temporary
driveway, nor in any park or playground except on roadways specifically
provided for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 71.013) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.014 OPERATING NOISY VEHICLE.
   It is unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or
unnecessary noise.
(Prior Code, § 71.014) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.015 OPERATING VEHICLE EMITTING SMOKE OR FUMES.
   It is unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits excessive smoke or fumes.
(Prior Code, § 71.015) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.016 TOWING VEHICLES GENERALLY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to tow any vehicle upon any street unless the towed
vehicle is disabled. In that case the connection must be arranged that the
towed and the towing vehicles are separated by not more than eight feet.
   (B)   Any disabled vehicle being towed from sunset to sunrise shall have a
red light attached to the disabled vehicle so that it may be visible to anyone
approaching the vehicle from any side of the same. The red light shall be in
addition to other required lights.
   (C)   It is unlawful to tow any disabled vehicle in excess of ten mph,
excepting new vehicles in transit.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to vehicles and equipment used for
construction purposes nor to machinery or licensed trailers.
   (E)   For the purpose of division (F) below, a WRECKER means a motor vehicle
with an apparatus capable of lifting one or more axles of a towed vehicle off
the ground for the purpose of transportation.
   (F)   A person who engages in the operation of towing disabled motor
vehicles with a wrecker shall identify each wrecker by painting or permanently
affixing identification on both of the wrecker’s doors:
      (1)   The name of the towing service; and
      (2)   The name of the city where the wrecker is domiciled in a form that
may easily be read by a law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, § 71.016) (Ord. 0-93-0013, passed - -1993) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.017 BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.017) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.018 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall not ride other than upon the permanent
and regular seat attached thereto or carry any other person; nor shall any
other person ride upon the motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached seat to
the rear or side of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 71.018) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.019 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, PRIVATE DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yielding the right-of-way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision and, upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.019) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.020 BLOCKING INTERSECTIONS OR CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless
there is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
   (B)   When any street is blocked by trains or traffic is otherwise
obstructed, no driver of any vehicle shall block an intersection in a manner as
to impede the free movement of traffic on intersecting streets.
(Prior Code, § 71.020) Penalty, see §
71.999
CROSSING BRIDGES
§ 71.035 RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR FIRE APPARATUS.
   Whenever, at any alarm of fire, any fire engine, hose cart, or other fire
apparatus shall approach any bridge for the purpose of crossing the same toward
a fire, the bridge tender shall, if the bridge is open, close the same as soon
as practicable; or if closed and after the same is closed, keep it closed until
the engine, hose cart, or other fire apparatus shall have had an opportunity to
pass over the bridge, notwithstanding vessels may thereby be delayed, under
penalty of violating the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.035) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.036 ATTEMPTING TO CROSS WHILE OPENING OR SHUTTING; DISOBEYING ORDERS OF
BRIDGE TENDER.
   Any person who shall drive or attempt to drive any automobile or other
vehicle or animal on or across any bridge in the city while the same is opening
or shutting or after the signal has begun, or shall disobey or resist the
tender thereof in his or her efforts to keep and promote order and equal
convenience among those crossing the bridge shall, for every offense, be deemed
guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.036) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.037 SPEED LIMIT.
   No person shall operate any vehicle across any of the bridges within the
city at a faster rate than 30 mph.
(Prior Code, § 71.037) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.038 OBSTRUCTING BRIDGES OR APPROACHES.
   It any person shall unnecessarily or wilfully remain or stop with any
vehicle or animal upon any of the bridges within the city or in and upon the
approaches to any bridge, the person shall be deemed guilty of violating the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.038) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.039 VEHICLES TO KEEP RIGHT.
   It shall be the duty of all drivers or persons in charge of any wagon,
automobile or vehicle of any kind to keep to the right when crossing any bridge
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 71.039) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.040 BREAKING INTO LINE OF TRAFFIC; DISOBEYING OR RESISTING OFFICER.
   No person driving or in charge of any vehicle shall cross or attempt to
cross or break into the line of vehicles while crossing or attempting to cross
any bridge, nor shall any person disobey or resist any officer in charge of any
bridge or crossing within the city.
(Prior Code, § 71.040) Penalty, see §
71.999
SPECIAL USES OF PUBLIC WAYS
§ 71.055 ZONES OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating a zone of quiet, no person
operating a motor vehicle within any zone shall sound the horn or other warning
device of the vehicle except in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 71.055) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.056 PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have authority to declare
any street or part thereof a play street and the Chief of Police shall cause
appropriate signs or devices to be placed in the roadway indicating and helping
to protect the same.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within the closed area, and then any driver shall exercise the greatest
care in driving upon any street or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 71.056) Penalty, see §
71.999
COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY VEHICLES
§ 71.070 TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The City Council may from time to time designate certain streets or
portions thereof as truck routes. When the truck routes have been established,
no driver of a truck shall proceed except in accordance with instructions given
on the signs denoting the truck routes.
   (B)   A schedule of the streets is maintained in the office of the City
Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 71.070) (Ord. 0-98-0023, passed 11-30-1998; Ord. 0-06-0037,
passed 8-14-2006) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.071 TRUCKS PASSING EACH OTHER.
   Trucks shall not pass each other on streets or parts of street when signs
prohibiting the same are posted.
(Prior Code, § 71.071) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.072 TRUCKS AND HEAVY OR SLOWER MOVING VEHICLES.
   On all streets, trucks and heavy and slower moving vehicles, so far as
conditions will permit, shall keep to the right and as close to the curb as
possible.
(Prior Code, § 71.072) Penalty, see §
71.999
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 71.085 METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS; GENERALLY.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the street.
   (B)   Approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right
half of the roadway nearest the center line thereof. After entering the
intersection, the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to
the right of the center line of the roadway being entered.
   (C)   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way street
shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line where it enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street
into a two-way street shall be made by passing to the right of the center line
of the street being entered upon leaving the intersection.
   (D)   Where both streets or roadways are one-way, both the approach for a
left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable to the left-
hand curb or edge of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.085) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.086 DETERMINATION AND MARKING OF NO TURN INTERSECTIONS; PROHIBITION OF
TURNS AT CERTAIN TIMES.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to determine those
intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U
turn and shall place proper signs at the intersections. The making of turns may
be prohibited between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in
which event the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be
removed which the turns are permitted.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right of left
or U turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
the sign.
(Prior Code, § 71.086) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.087 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS, MARKERS, OR OTHER INDICATIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized to cause markers, buttons, or signs
within or adjacent to intersections to be placed to indicate the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning at intersections, and the course to be traveled as
so indicated may conform to or be other than as prescribed by law or ordinance.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the
indications.
(Prior Code, § 71.087) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.088 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless the movement can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   No driver shall make a U turn at any intersection where official
traffic-control signs are installed and are in use.
(Prior Code, § 71.088) Penalty, see §
71.999
SIGNS, SIGNALS, AND MARKERS
§ 71.100 EXISTING SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   All traffic-control signals, signs, and markings erected or installed prior
to the date of adoption of this code are validated and affirmed.
(Prior Code, § 71.100)
§ 71.101 DESIGNATION OF CROSSWALKS, SAFETY ZONES, AND TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Chief of Police is authorized to:
   (A)   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks, or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in his or her
opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at
any other places as he or she may deem necessary;
   (B)   Establish safety zones of a kind and character and at places as he or
she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians; and
   (C)   Mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at places as he or she may
deem advisable, consistent with this chapter and the traffic ordinances of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 71.101)
§ 71.102 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO INSTALL AND MAINTAIN DEVICES.
   The Chief of Police or city electrician, as the case may require, shall
cause traffic-control signs, signals, and devices to be placed and maintained
when and as required to make effective this title and other traffic ordinances
of this city; provided, that the work of placing new signals, other than mere
maintenance, shall be commenced after resolution of the Board of Public Works
and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.102)
§ 71.103 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the manual
and specifications approved by the State Highway Commission. All signs and
signals required under this title for a particular purpose shall, so far as
practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All
traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of
state law or this title shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Prior Code, § 71.103)
§ 71.104 OBEDIENCE GENERALLY.
   The driver of every vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device, sign, or signal, applicable thereto, placed in
accordance with the traffic regulations of this city, unless otherwise ordered
by a police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle in this title.
(Prior Code, § 71.104) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.105 ENFORCEMENT; WHEN.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged violation
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section of this
chapter does not state that signs are required, the section shall be effective
even though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 71.105)
§ 71.106 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGENDS.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “go,” “caution,” or “stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively the following colors only shall be used and the terms and lights
shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left, unless a sign at a place prohibits either turn. Vehicular
traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “caution” when shown with or following the green or
“go” signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but, if the stop cannot be made in
safety, the vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal are advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at any other point as may be indicated
by a clearly visible line and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow. Vehicular traffic facing the signal may
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by the
arrow, but shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a
crosswalk and to other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.106) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.107 SPECIAL PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“wait” are in place, the signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrian facing the signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall, be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction
of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his or her
crossing on the walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone while
the wait signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 71.107) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.108 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used in a traffic sign or signal
they shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 71.108) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.109 LOCATION OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS GENERALLY.
   The City Council may from time to time designate the location of certain
traffic-control signals. A schedule of the location of these signals is on file
in the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 71.109)
§ 71.110 UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
street or highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
official traffic-control device of any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any street or highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon
any commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every prohibited sign, signal, or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is empowered
to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 71.110) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.111 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, interfere with, or remove any official traffic-
control device or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield, or
insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 71.111) Penalty, see §
71.999
OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINERS IN PASSENGER VEHICLES
§ 71.125 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Shall have the meaning set forth in I.C. 7.1-1-3-5.
   CONTAINER. Shall have the meaning set forth in I.C. 7.1-1-3-13.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Shall have the meaning set forth in I.C. 9-13-2-105, except
that MOTOR VEHICLE as used in this section shall not include recreational
vehicles, as defined in I.C. 9-13-2-150 and which is designed to transport more
than ten passengers including the operator or any chartered passenger vehicle
licensed to operate within the state.
(Prior Code, § 71.125) (Ord. 3557, passed - -1992)
§ 71.126 POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED.
   A person who knowingly consumes an alcoholic beverage or possesses a
container that has been opened; that has a broken seal; or from which some of
the contents have been removed, while in a motor vehicle that is being operated
or parked upon a public highway within the city limits, commits a violation of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.126) (Ord. 3557, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.127 OPERATOR OR OWNER OF MOTOR VEHICLE IN VIOLATION.
   (A)   The operator or owner of a motor vehicle who, while the motor vehicle
is in operation or parked upon a public street, knowingly keeps or allows to be
kept in an area of the motor vehicle that is accessible to the operator or a
passenger, a container that has been opened; that has a broken seal; or from
which some of the contents have been removed, commits a violation of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the definition for MOTOR VEHICLE in §
71.125, the operator of a recreational vehicle or chartered passenger vehicle
who, while the motor vehicle is in operation or parked upon a public street,
knowingly keeps or allows to be kept in an area of the recreational vehicle or
chartered passenger vehicle that is accessible to the operator a container that
has been opened; that has a broken seal; or from which some of the contents
have been removed, commits a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.127) (Ord. 3557, passed - -1992) Penalty, see §
71.999
§ 71.128 SIGNS TO BE POSTED.
   Signs giving notice of this prohibition of open alcoholic beverage
containers shall be posted giving notice of the regulation.
(Prior Code, § 71.128) (Ord. 3557, passed - -1992)
§ 71.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
70.999.
   (B)   Open alcoholic beverage containers in passenger vehicles. An officer
of the Police Department may issue a ticket or city ordinance violation
citation to a person who violates §§
71.125 through
71.128. Conviction of the citation or ticket issued to an individual shall
carry a penalty in an amount as set by the city from time to time for each
offense.
(Prior Code, § 71.999) (Ord. 3059, passed - -1974; Ord. 3061, passed - -1974;
Ord. 3077, passed - -1975; Ord. 3081, passed - -1975; Ord. 3090, passed - -
1975; Ord. 3094, passed - -1975; Ord. 3107, passed - -1976; Ord. 3113, passed -
-1976; Ord. 3120, passed - -1976; Ord. 3121, passed - -1976; Ord. 3122, passed
- -1976; Ord. 3125, passed - -1976; Ord. 3126, passed - -1976; Ord. 3128,
passed - -1976; Ord. 3136, passed - -1977; Ord. 3153, passed - -1977; Ord.
3162, passed - -1977; Ord. 3172, passed - -1977; Ord. 3194, passed - -1978;
Ord. 3200, passed - -1978; Ord. 3228, passed - -1979; Ord. 3229, passed - -
1979; Ord. 3249, passed - -1980; Ord. 3316, passed - -1982; Ord. 3334, passed -
-1982; Ord. 3347, passed - -1983; Ord. 3349, passed - -1983; Ord. 3373, passed
- -1984; Ord. 3374, passed - -1984; Ord. 3396, passed - -1985; Ord. 3408,
passed - -1985; Ord. 3413, passed - -1985; Ord. 3414, passed - -1985; Ord.
3417, passed - -1985; Ord. 3453, passed - -1987; Ord. 3422, passed - -1988;
Ord. 3471, passed - -1988; Ord. 3472, passed - -1988; Ord. 3473, passed - -
1988; Ord. 3474, passed - -1988; Ord. 3493, passed - -1989; Ord. 3516, passed -
-1990; Ord. 3532, passed - -1990; Ord. 3553, passed - -1992; Ord. 3554, passed
- -1992; Ord. 3557, passed - -1992; Ord. 3559, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-93-0009,
passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0010, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0012, passed - -1994;
Ord. 0-93-0021, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-94-0001, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-94-0017,
passed - -1994; Ord. 0-95-0007, passed - -1995; Ord. 0-96-0016, passed - -1996;
Ord. 0-97-0013, passed - -1997; Ord. 0-98-0013, passed - -1998; Ord. 0-98-0019,
passed 10-5-1998; Ord. 0-98-0020, passed 10-5-1998; Ord. 0-98-0022, passed 11-
30-1998; Ord. 0-98-0023, passed 11-30-1998; Ord. 0-99-0004, passed 6-15-1999;
Ord. 0-99-0005, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 0-00-0011, passed 5-8-2000; Ord. 0-01-
0014, passed 5-30-2001; Ord. 0-02-0038, passed - -2002; Ord. 0-02-0039, passed
11-25-2002; Ord. 0-04-0011, passed 5-5-2004; Ord. 0-04-0028, passed 6-28-2004;
Ord. 0-05-0028, passed 8-22-2005; Ord. 0-06-0023, passed 6-12-2006; Ord. 0-06-
0033, passed 7-10-2006; Ord. 0-07-0008, passed 4-9-2007; Ord. 0-07-0012, passed
5-29-2007)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Places where stopping, standing, and parking prohibited
   
72.002   On parkways or private property
   
72.003   Near hazardous or congested places generally
Stopping
   
72.015   Designation of stop intersections
   
72.016   Hazardous intersections
   
72.017   At intersection of through street
   
72.018   Stop sign visibility and location at intersection
   
72.019   Obedience to stop signs
Unattended Vehicles
   
72.030   Duties of driver
   
72.031   Authority of police
   
72.032   Owner responsibility
Standing and Parking
   
72.045   Applicability of subchapter
   
72.046   Standing or parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.047   Manner of parking
   
72.048   Erection of signs prerequisite to enforcement
   
72.049   Responsibility of owner of vehicle for violation
   
72.050   Prohibited or restricted parking areas
   
72.051   While streets being swept
   
72.052   On narrow streets
   
72.053   On one-way streets; generally
   
72.054   On dual highways
   
72.055   Adjacent to schools
   
72.056   Obstructing traffic
   
72.057   Recreational vehicles, campers, and trailers
   
72.058   Municipal parking lots
   
72.059   Parking places for city officials and employees at City Hall
   
72.060   Temporary parking ban for designated snow route streets
   
72.061   During snow removal
   
72.062   Lights on parked vehicles
   
72.063   Alley parking and speed limits
Bus and Taxicab Stands; Loading Zones
   
72.075   Location of loading zones; generally
   
72.076   Use of passenger curb loading zones; generally
   
72.077   Use of freight curb loading zones
   
72.078   Far side bus stops and taxicab stands
   
72.079   Use of bus stop or taxicab stand by vehicles other than buses or
taxicabs
   
72.080   Parking or stopping buses or taxicabs
   
72.081   Manner of loading and unloading buses
   
72.082   Permits for curb loading zones; generally
Handicapped Parking
   
72.095   Definition of physically handicapped persons
   
72.096   Restricted handicapped areas; handicapped individual; residence
parking permits
   
72.097   Criteria for designating a restricted handicapped area
   
72.098   Public agency parking facilities
 
   
72.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 PLACES WHERE STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
traffic authority indicates a different length by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance, when properly signposted;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping and parking.
The City Traffic Engineer and/or the Chief of Police of the city are empowered
to designate the places where stopping or parking is prohibited; or
      (15)   In any alley.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by the person into any
prohibited area or away from a curb the distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 72.001) (Ord. 3144, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.002 ON PARKWAYS OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle upon or within any
parkway unless expressly permitted by special resolution of the Board of Public
Works and Safety and where the parkway, on which parking is permitted, is
clearly marked therefor by official signs.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle or any part thereof on
any private property without the express permission of the owner or person in
charge.
(Prior Code, § 72.002) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.003 NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized to determine and designate by proper
signs not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the stopping, standing, or
parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized in division (A) above, no person shall stop, stand, or park a
vehicle in any designated place.
(Prior Code, § 72.003) Penalty, see §
72.999
STOPPING
§ 72.015 DESIGNATION OF STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The City Council may from time to time designate certain intersections as
stop intersections. A schedule of these intersections is maintained in the City
Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 72.015)
§ 72.016 HAZARDOUS INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized to determine and designate
intersections where particular hazard exists, upon other than through streets,
and to recommend whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any
stop intersection.
   (B)   At every place where a stop is required by this subchapter, the Chief
shall cause a stop sign to be erected. When a stop sign is erected pursuant to
this subchapter, automobiles and vehicles shall comply by stopping.
(Prior Code, § 72.016) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.017 AT INTERSECTION OF THROUGH STREET.
   Whenever this code or any ordinance of this city designates and describes a
through street, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to cause a stop
sign to be placed and maintained on each and every street intersecting the
through street or intersecting that portion thereof described and designated as
such.
(Prior Code, § 72.017) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.018 STOP SIGN VISIBILITY AND LOCATION AT INTERSECTION.
   Every stop sign erected pursuant to this subchapter shall bear the word
“Stop” in letters not less than six inches in height. The sign shall at
nighttime be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination or
by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign or by efficient
reflecting elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located
as near as practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 72.018) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.019 OBEDIENCE TO STOP SIGNS.
   When stop signs are erected as provided in this subchapter at or near the
entrance to any intersection, every driver of a vehicle shall stop the vehicle
at the sign or at a clearly marked stop line before entering the intersection,
except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control signal.
(Prior Code, § 72.019) Penalty, see §
72.999
UNATTENDED VEHICLES
§ 72.030 DUTIES OF DRIVER.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, removing
the ignition key from the vehicle, effectively setting the brake thereon and,
when standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to the curb or side of
the highway.
(Prior Code, § 72.030) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.031 AUTHORITY OF POLICE.
   Whenever any police officer shall find a motor vehicle standing unattended
with the ignition key in the vehicle, in violation of §
72.030, the police officer is authorized to remove the key from the vehicle and
to deliver the key to his or her commanding officer.
(Prior Code, § 72.031)
§ 72.032 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The registered owner of a vehicle found in violation of §
72.030 shall be held prima facie responsible for any violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.032) Penalty, see §
72.999
STANDING AND PARKING
§ 72.045 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times specified or indicated on
official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
official traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 72.045)
§ 72.046 STANDING OR PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway or parkway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Greasing or changing oil;
   (C)   Repairing or installing devices on the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
   (D)   Selling merchandise therefrom; or
   (E)   Polishing, cleaning, or washing any vehicle in any park or on any
streets abutting any park.
(Prior Code, § 72.046) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.047 MANNER OF PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as follows:
   (A)   Upon those streets or parts of streets which the Board of Public Works
and Safety has resolved to permit angle parking and upon which the Chief of
Police has caused marks or signs indicating angle parking, vehicles shall be
parked at the angle to the curb indicated by the marks or signs;
   (B)   Upon those streets which have been marked or signed for parking in the
center of the street; or
   (C)   In places where and the hours when stopping for the loading or
unloading of merchandise or materials is permitted, vehicles used for the
transportation of merchandise or materials may back into the curb to take on or
discharge loads when the owner of the vehicle holds a special permit issued by
the Traffic Bureau granting him or her the privilege, and the permits shall be
either in the possession of the driver or on the vehicle at the time the
vehicle is backed against the curb to take on or discharge a load. It is
unlawful for any owner or driver to violate any of the special terms or
conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 72.047) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.048 ERECTION OF SIGNS PREREQUISITE TO ENFORCEMENT.
   Whenever in this chapter or other ordinance of the city, any parking time
limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets, it shall be
the duty of the Chief of Police to cause appropriate signs giving notice
thereof to be erected and maintained, and no regulations shall be effective
unless the signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 72.048)
§ 72.049 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OF VEHICLE FOR VIOLATION.
   No person shall allow, permit, or suffer any vehicle registered in his or
her name to stand or park in any street in this city in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter regulating the standing or parking of vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.049) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.050 PROHIBITED OR RESTRICTED PARKING AREAS.
   The City Council may, from time to time, designate certain blocks or
portions of blocks as areas where parking is prohibited or restricted as to
time. Schedules of these areas are on file in the City Clerk’s office. When
signs are erected indicating the areas, no vehicle shall stand or be parked in
violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 72.050) (Ord. 0-02-0029, passed 9-9-2002)
§ 72.051 WHILE STREETS BEING SWEPT.
   (A)   The Director of Maintenance Services Department is given the power to
post temporary signs reading “No Parking—Street Sweeping” along any street
which he or she intends to sweep within the succeeding 24 hours. The Director
of Maintenance Services Department shall post every street that he or she
intends to sweep with the signs prior to 4:00 p.m. of the preceding day.
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle on any street which has been posted
by the Director of Maintenance Services Department “No Parking—Street
Sweeping,” and any vehicle which is parked at the time of posting signs or is
parked after posting signs, but prior to time for sweeping, shall be removed
before 7:00 a.m. of the day the street is to be swept. Any vehicle which is
illegally parked after 7:00 a.m. of the day the street is to be swept may be
towed away in the manner provided in §§
70.085 through
70.086.
(Prior Code, § 72.051)
§ 72.052 ON NARROW STREETS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized to cause the erection of signs
indicating no parking upon any street when the width of the roadway does not
exceed 20 feet or upon one side of a street as indicated by signs when the
width of the roadway does not exceed 30 feet.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized as authorized in division (A) above, no person shall park
a vehicle upon any street in violation of any sign.
(Prior Code, § 72.052) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.053 ON ONE-WAY STREETS; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized to cause the erection of signs upon
the left-hand side of any one-way street to prohibit the standing or parking of
vehicles.
   (B)   When the signs are in place, no person shall stand or park a vehicle
upon the left-hand side in violation of any sign.
(Prior Code, § 72.053) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.054 ON DUAL HIGHWAYS.
   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any roadway, no person shall stand or park a
vehicle upon the left-hand side of a one-way roadway unless signs are erected
to permit standing or parking. The Traffic Bureau is authorized to determine
when standing or parking may be permitted upon the left-hand side of any one-
way roadway and to erect signs giving notice thereof.
(Prior Code, § 72.054) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.055 ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The Traffic Bureau is authorized to erect signs indicating no parking
upon that side of any street adjacent to any school property when parking
would, in the opinion of the Chief of Police, interfere with traffic or create
a hazardous situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side
of any street adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle
in any designated place.
(Prior Code, § 72.055) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.056 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in a
manner or under conditions as to leave available less than 15 feet of the width
of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 72.056) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.057 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, CAMPERS, AND TRAILERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful within the limits of the city for any person to park
any trailer, automobile trailer, trailer coach, camper, house car, or boat
trailer, on any street, alley, within the city, except as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any street,
alley, or highway for not longer than one 24-hour period subject to any other
and further prohibitions, regulations, or limitations imposed by the traffic
and parking regulations or provisions of this code for that street, alley, or
highway.
(Prior Code, § 72.057) (Ord. 3092, passed - -1975) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.058 MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Municipal parking lots shall be operated and maintained by the Board
of Public Works and Safety for the city.
   (B)   The following regulations shall govern the off-street parking lot on
Fir St.:
      (1)   From 2:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. of every day of the week, no person
shall park his or her motor vehicle or permit his or her motor vehicle to be
parked or to be in a municipal parking space;
      (2)   No person shall park his or her truck, tractor, or trailer or
permit any of vehicles to be parked or be in a municipal parking space at any
time;
      (3)   No person shall use a municipal parking space for any purpose other
than the parking of passenger motor vehicles; provided, that this provision
shall not prohibit emergency repairs;
      (4)   No person shall tamper with the motor vehicle of any other person
while it is lawfully parked in any municipal parking space without express
permission of the owner; and
      (5)   If individual spaces are designated in a municipal parking space,
no person shall park in any place other than in a designated parking space.
(Prior Code, § 72.058) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.059 PARKING PLACES FOR CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES AT CITY HALL.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall cause to be marked and designated
places sufficient for the parking of city motor vehicles and motor vehicles of
city officials and employees around and about the City Hall. These places shall
be plainly marked and signed, and when so done it is unlawful for any other
than the designated persons to park any motor vehicle in any marked or
designated place.
(Prior Code, § 72.059) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.060 TEMPORARY PARKING BAN FOR DESIGNATED SNOW ROUTE STREETS.
   (A)   Following snowfall resulting in an accumulation exceeding two inches,
there shall be a temporary parking ban on streets designated below as the snow
route in effect between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. Streets designated
below as snow routes shall have appropriate signage posted at suitable
intervals.
   (B)   Cars parked in violation of the temporary parking ban shall be
ticketed and towed at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   Vehicles violating this provision shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed an amount as set by the city from time to time.
   (D)   The following streets are designated as the city’s snow route:
      (1)   Broadway St. (both sides) from Guthrie to Indiana Harbor Dr.; and
      (2)   The 3500, 3600, 3700, and 3800 blocks (both sides) of Main St.
(Prior Code, § 72.060) (Ord. 0-08-0032, passed 12-8-2008) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.061 DURING SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Director of Maintenance Services Department is given the power to
post temporary signs reading “No Parking—Snow Removal” along any street which
he or she intends to remove snow from within the succeeding 24 hours. The
Director of Maintenance Services Department shall post every street that he or
she intends to remove snow from with the signs prior to 4:00 p.m. of the
preceding day.
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle on any street which has been posted
by the Director of Maintenance Services Department “No Parking—Snow Removal,”
and any vehicle which is parked at the time of posting signs or is parked after
posting, but prior to time for snow removal, shall be removed before 7:00 a.m.
of the day the street is to be cleared of snow.
   (C)   Any vehicle which is illegally parked after 7:00 a.m. of the day the
street is to be cleared of snow may be towed away in the manner provided in §§
70.085 through
70.086.
(Prior Code, § 72.061) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.062 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any street within a
business or residence district no lights need be displayed upon the parked
vehicle, where there is sufficient light.
(Prior Code, § 72.062)
§ 72.063 ALLEY PARKING AND SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley except temporarily for
the purpose of loading or unloading and then only in a manner or under
conditions as to leave available not less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic and no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in a position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property.
   (B)   Speed limit in all alleys in the city shall be five mph.
   (C)   Vehicles illegally parked in alley shall be subject to being towed
away and the cost of the towing, and any storage borne by owner of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 72.063) (Ord. 3481, passed - -1988) Penalty, see §
72.999
BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS; LOADING ZONES
§ 72.075 LOCATION OF LOADING ZONES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to determine the
location of passenger and freight curb loading zones and the Chief of Police
shall cause appropriate signs to be placed and maintained indicating the same
and stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are
applicable.
   (B)   All loading zones shall be for passengers unless otherwise marked.
(Prior Code, § 72.075)
§ 72.076 USE OF PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONES; GENERALLY.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any
place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations
applicable to curb loading zone are effective, and then only for a period not
to exceed three minutes.
(Prior Code, § 72.076) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.077 USE OF FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to the zones are in effect.
   (B)   In no case, without special written permit, shall the stop for loading
and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 72.077) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.078 FAR SIDE BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to establish far
side bus stops and taxicab stands for lawful passenger or common-carrier motor
vehicles on public streets, in places and in a number as it shall determine to
be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public.
   (B)   Every bus stop, taxicab stand, or other stand shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
(Prior Code, § 72.078)
§ 72.079 USE OF BUS STOP OR TAXICAB STAND BY VEHICLES OTHER THAN BUSES OR
TAXICABS.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any stop or stand has
been officially designated and appropriately signed; except, that the driver of
a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when the stopping does not
unduly interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the
zone.
(Prior Code, § 72.079) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.080 PARKING OR STOPPING BUSES OR TAXICABS.
   The driver of a bus or taxicab shall not park upon any street in any
business district at any place other than at a bus stop or taxicab stand,
respectively; except, that this provision shall not prevent the driver of any
taxicab, when hired, from waiting for his or her passenger, nor the driver of
any vehicle or bus from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping
or parking regulations at any place, for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers.
(Prior Code, § 72.080) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.081 MANNER OF LOADING AND UNLOADING BUSES.
   No bus shall load or unload any passenger until the bus is parallel to the
curb and not more than one foot distance therefrom. If there is no curb, then
the loading and unloading shall be done in a manner as to cause no obstruction
to the regular flow of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 72.081) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.082 PERMITS FOR CURB LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Generally. The Traffic Bureau is authorized to issue special permits
to permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or
unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of the
permit. The permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to the person the
privileges as therein stated and authorized therein and it shall be unlawful
for any permittee or other person to violate any of the special terms or
conditions of any permit.
(Prior Code, § 72.082)
   (B)   Application; revocation. The Chief of Police shall not designate or
sign any curb loading zone upon special request of any person unless the person
shall make application for a permit. Every permit shall be revocable at the
discretion of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 72.083)
Penalty, see §
72.999
HANDICAPPED PARKING
§ 72.095 DEFINITION OF PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS. Persons as defined in I.C. 5-16-9-1 et seq.
or I.C. 5- 16-9-1 or someone who has been issued a placard or decal from the
State Rehabilitation Services Agency or a registration plate by the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 76.01) (Ord. 3392, passed - -1985)
§ 72.096 RESTRICTED HANDICAPPED AREAS; HANDICAPPED INDIVIDUAL; RESIDENCE
PARKING PERMITS.
   A restricted handicapped area is an area that is so marked by the use of
signs, clearly posted, in public parking areas in the city. These parking areas
should include municipal, county, and governmental buildings, libraries, all
shopping areas, schools, hospitals, parks, municipal parking lots, and where
authorized by the Traffic Engineer. All restricted handicapped areas requiring
parking permits on the public street immediately in front of the residence of
the handicapped individual or on the public street where necessary shall be
approved by the Council member of the district where the handicapped person
resides. No parking permits or signs on the public residential street shall be
removed without permission of the councilmember.
(Prior Code, § 76.02) (Ord. 3392, passed - -1985; Ord. 3533, passed - -1990)
Penalty, see § 76.99
§ 72.097 CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATING A RESTRICTED HANDICAPPED AREA.
   The criteria for designating a restricted handicapped area requiring parking
permits on the public street immediately in front of the residence of a
handicapped individual shall not include possession of a valid driver’s license
or ownership of a motor vehicle by the handicapped individual. Rather, it is
contemplated and intended that the parking areas may be used by motorists while
they are driving or otherwise assisting handicapped individuals.
(Prior Code, § 76.03) (Ord. 0-98-0014, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.098 PUBLIC AGENCY PARKING FACILITIES.
   The spaces reserved in public agency parking facilities shall be as required
by I.C. 5-16-9-2.
(Prior Code, § 76.04) (Ord. 3392, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
72.999
§ 72.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter,
for which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of §
70.999.
      (2)   Alley parking and speed limits. Vehicles violating the provisions
of §
72.063 shall be subject to a fine of up to an amount as set by the city from
time to time plus costs.
(Prior Code, § 72.999)
   (B)   Violation of parking restrictions shall be as set forth in I.C. 5-16-
9-5. A person who knowingly parks in a reserved handicapped parking space while
displaying a placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is
entitled commits a Class C infraction. Also, that any person who parks a motor
vehicle which does not have displayed a handicapped person’s or disabled
veteran’s placard issued under this chapter or under the laws of another state,
or a handicapped or a disabled veteran’s registration plate in a parking space
reserved under this chapter for a handicapped person’s vehicle commits a Class
C infraction. Class C infraction is a judgment or fine in an amount as set by
the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 76.99)
(Ord. 3392, passed - -1985; Ord. 3551, passed - -1992)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING METERS
Section
General Provisions
   
73.001   Definitions
   
73.002   Designation of zones
   
73.003   Metered space; identification; method of parking
   
73.004   Determination and posting of time limitations
   
73.005   Parts and installation; acquisition and payment
   
73.006   Location on curb; design requirements
   
73.007   Operation
   
73.008   Deposit of certain coins for certain amounts of time; parking overtime
   
73.009   Tampering
   
73.010   Use of slugs
   
73.011   Collection and disposition of proceeds
   
73.012   Notices of violations; payment of fine
Use of Space for Residence Parking
   
73.025   Registration of owner and vehicle
   
73.026   Certain violations; voiding of arrest
 
   
73.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKING METER. A mechanical device located upon a public street or sidewalk
in a place regularly designated as a parking zone, which device shall record a
certain number of minutes by the use of a clock mechanism determining the
period of time for which parking privileges may be extended to the person so
depositing a coin.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street between the regularly established curb
lines.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines.
   STREET. Every way that is set apart for public travel, except alleyways,
bridlepaths, and footpaths.
   VEHICLE. Any device by which any person or property may be transported upon
a public highway, except those operated upon rails and permanent tracks.
(Prior Code, § 73.01)
§ 73.002 DESIGNATION OF ZONES.
   The City Council may from time to time designate certain areas as parking
meter zones. A schedule of these areas is on file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 73.02)
§ 73.003 METERED SPACE; IDENTIFICATION; METHOD OF PARKING.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have markings painted or
placed upon the curb or upon the street adjacent to each parking meter for the
purpose of designating the parking space for which the meter is to be used, and
each vehicle parking adjacent or next to any parking meter shall park within
the lines or markings so established.
   (B)   It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter to park any vehicle
across any line or marking or to park a vehicle in a position that the same
shall not be entirely within the area so designated by the lines or markings.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.004 DETERMINATION AND POSTING OF TIME LIMITATIONS.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall fix the time limitations for
legal parking in parking meter zones and the hours during the day when the
parking meters shall be used and when the time limitations shall be effective,
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and shall indicate the time
limitations by designating the same on the parking meters or by appropriate
signs posted in proximity to the meters in the zone.
(Prior Code, § 73.04)
§ 73.005 PARTS AND INSTALLATION; ACQUISITION AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety of the city is authorized to
carry out the terms of any contracts entered into by the Council of the city
for the purchase, leasing, acquiring, installation, operation, maintenance,
supervision, regulation, and use of the parking meters provided for in this
chapter, whether for trial period or otherwise.
   (B)   The payment for parking meters and installation is to be provided for
solely from the receipts, funds, and revenues obtained from the operation of
the parking meters without in any manner obligating the city to pay for the
same from any other source.
(Prior Code, § 73.05)
§ 73.006 LOCATION ON CURB; DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The parking meters installed in the parking meter zones, as established and
provided for in §
73.002, shall be placed upon the curb immediately adjacent to the individual
parking places described in this chapter. Each parking meter shall be placed or
set in a manner as to show or display by a signal that the parking space
adjacent to the meter is or is not legally in use. Each parking meter installed
shall indicate by a proper legend the legal parking time established by the
city and, when operated, shall indicate on and by its dial and pointer the
duration of the period of legal parking and, on the expiration of the period,
shall indicate illegal or overparking.
(Prior Code, § 73.06) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.007 OPERATION.
   When any vehicle shall be parked in any space adjacent to which a parking
meter is located in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the
operator of the vehicle shall, upon entering the parking space, immediately
deposit or cause to be deposited a five or ten cent coin of the United States
in the parking meter and put the meter in operation. Failure to deposit the
coin and put the meter in operation shall constitute a violation of this
chapter and shall subject the person to the penalty prescribed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 73.07) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.008 DEPOSIT OF CERTAIN COINS FOR CERTAIN AMOUNTS OF TIME; PARKING
OVERTIME.
   Upon placing a parking meter in operation as required by §
73.007, the parking space may be lawfully occupied by a vehicle for a period of
30 consecutive minutes for each five cent coin of the United States deposited
therein up to 120 minutes or for a period of 60 consecutive minutes for each
ten cent coin of the United States deposited therein up to 120 minutes and
payment of amounts for the above periods shall be made for parking in the areas
set forth in this chapter. If any vehicle shall remain parked in any a parking
space beyond the parking time limit as fixed by the coins deposited in the
meter for the parking space, the parking meter shall by its dial and pointer
indicate the illegal parking and, in that event, the vehicle shall be
considered parked overtime and beyond the period of legal parking time and
shall constitute a violation of this chapter, and the owner or operator thereof
shall be punished as set out in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 73.08) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.009 TAMPERING.
   It is unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this chapter for any
person to deface, injure, tamper with, open, or wilfully break, destroy, or
impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed under the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 73.09) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.010 USE OF SLUGS.
   It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter to deposit or cause to be
deposited in any parking meter any slug, device, or metallic substitute or any
other substitute for a coin of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 73.10) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.011 COLLECTION AND DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   (A)   The coins required to be deposited in parking meters as provided in
this chapter are levied and assessed as fees to provide for the proper
regulation and control of traffic vehicles in the parking meter zones created
pursuant to this chapter and to cover the cost of the purchasing, leasing,
acquiring, installation, operation, maintenance, supervision, regulation, and
control of the parking meters described in this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall, with the ratification of
the Common Council, designate collectors and methods as are necessary to
properly collect all coins deposited in the meter boxes. The collectors shall
be only employees as are duly bonded in a sum not less than an amount as set by
the city from time to time for the faithful performance of their duties. All
money so collected shall be deposited with the controller of the city;
provided, that a separate fund or accounting shall be maintained at all times
for the money so deposited. The money collected from parking meters shall be
used for street repairs.
   (C)   All penalty fees collected by the Cafeteria Court of the city shall be
deposited with the Controller of the city and credited to the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 73.11) Penalty, see §
73.999
§ 73.012 NOTICES OF VIOLATIONS; PAYMENT OF FINE.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city acting in accordance
with the instructions issued by the Board of Public Works and Safety to report:
   (A)   The number of each parking meter which indicated that the vehicle
occupying the parking space adjacent to the parking meter is or has been
parking in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   The state license number of the vehicle;
   (C)   The time the vehicle is parking in violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter; and
   (D)   Any other facts or knowledge of which is necessary for a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending the violation. Each police officer
shall also attach a notice to any vehicle that has been parked in violation of
a provision of this chapter, which notice instructs the vehicle owner or
operator to report to the Cafeteria Court of the city in regard to the
violation. Each owner or operator may, within 24 hours of the time when the
notice was attached to the vehicle, pay to the desk sergeant at the Cafeteria
Court as a penalty for and in full satisfaction of the violation the sum in an
amount as set by the city from time to time. The failure of the owner or
operator to make payment within the 24-hour period shall render the owner or
operator subject to the penalties provided in this title.
(Prior Code, § 73.12) Penalty, see §
73.999
USE OF SPACE FOR RESIDENCE PARKING
§ 73.025 REGISTRATION OF OWNER AND VEHICLE.
   (A)   Persons who reside in the city and have a parking meter located in
front of, alongside, or in close proximity to their residence may register
their name, address, make and year of motor vehicle, and state license number
with the Clerk of the Cafeteria Court.
   (B)   Any changes in the address, make and year of motor vehicle, or state
license number must be reported to the Clerk of the Cafeteria Court by the
person lawfully registered with the Clerk as prescribed by division (A) above.
The provisions of this chapter will not apply to motor vehicles which are not
registered or are improperly registered with the Clerk of the Cafeteria Court.
(Prior Code, § 73.25)
§ 73.026 CERTAIN VIOLATIONS; VOIDING OF ARREST.
   (A)   Any notice of a violation of §
73.007, which makes it unlawful to park a motor vehicle in a space adjacent to
a parking meter without depositing the required United States coin, or any
notice of a violation of §
73.008, which makes it unlawful for a vehicle to remain in a space adjacent to
a parking meter beyond the time limit as fixed by the coin or coins deposited
in the meter, may be taken to the Clerk of the Cafeteria Court.
   (B)   The Clerk of the Cafeteria Court is empowered to void any arrest and
cancel any fine for the cited violations in division (A) above, provided, that:
      (1)   The owner of the motor vehicle receiving the notice of violation is
registered in the manner prescribed by §
73.025 before the notice of violation was issued;
      (2)   The violation occurred within two blocks of the owner’s place of
residence;
      (3)   The notice of violation is taken to the Clerk of the Cafeteria
Court’s office within two weeks of the date of the violation; and
      (4)   The vehicle which is parked in an unlawful manner is the same
vehicle which is registered with the Clerk of the Cafeteria Court.
(Prior Code, § 73.26)
§ 73.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter and any
person who aids, abets, or assists therein shall, upon conviction thereof by
the City Court, be subject to a fine of not to exceed more than an amount as
set by the city from time to time for each offense or violation.
(Prior Code, § 73.99)
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.001   Rights and restrictions
   
74.002   Right-of-way in crosswalk
   
74.003   Use of right half of crosswalks
   
74.004   Crossing without crosswalk
   
74.005   Yielding to vehicles
   
74.006   Prohibited crossing
   
74.007   Marked crosswalks
   
74.008   Walking along roadways
   
74.009   Solicitation of rides
   
74.010   Exercise of due care by drivers
   
74.011   Use of roller skates, coasters, and toy vehicles
§ 74.001 RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to the traffic control signals of this title,
but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 74.01)
§ 74.002 RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   Where traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within
a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the
opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall
suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of
a vehicle, which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. A
pedestrian’s right-of-way in a crosswalk is modified under the condition and as
stated in §
74.006(B).
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 74.02) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.003 USE OF RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALKS.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 74.03) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.004 CROSSING WITHOUT CROSSWALK.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 74.04) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.005 YIELDING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the
conditions stated in §
74.006 when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain designated
places.
(Prior Code, § 74.05) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.006 PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   (A)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a street other than in a crosswalk in any
business district.
(Prior Code, § 74.06) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.007 MARKED CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   The City Council may from time to time designate locations for marked
crosswalks between intersections. A schedule of the crosswalk locations shall
be maintained in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The Common Council designates the following location for placement of
a marked crosswalk to be accompanied by the appropriate signage from each
direction: on Melville Ave. opposite the entrance to the Martin Luther King
Community Center between 118th and 149th Streets.
(Prior Code, § 74.07) (Ord. 0-06-0046, passed 11-13-2006) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.008 WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway, except when the sidewalk is
impassable.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
(Prior Code, § 74.08) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.009 SOLICITATION OF RIDES.
   No person shall be in a street or highway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 74.09) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.010 EXERCISE OF DUE CARE BY DRIVERS.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
street and shall give a warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a street.
(Prior Code, § 74.10) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 74.011 USE OF ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS, AND TOY VEHICLES.
   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any coaster, sled,
toy vehicle, or similar devices shall go upon any roadway except while crossing
a street on a crosswalk and except upon streets set aside as play streets, when
and as authorized and marked by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 74.11) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.001   Bicycle defined
   
75.002   Rental
   
75.003   Sales
   
75.004   Impoundment
   
75.005   Permitting minor to violate chapter
Licenses
   
75.020   Required
   
75.021   Application; fee
   
75.022   Identification numbers
   
75.023   Prerequisite inspection; issuance; duration
   
75.024   Renewal
   
75.025   Revocation or suspension
   
75.026   Records
   
75.027   Plates or tags; sale or transfer of bicycle
Traffic Regulations
   
75.040   Applicability of motor vehicle laws
   
75.041   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
75.042   Method of operation
   
75.043   Riding on sidewalks
   
75.044   Riding on roadways
   
75.045   Speed
   
75.046   Racing
   
75.047   Turning
   
75.048   Yielding right-of-way
   
75.049   Clinging to vehicles
   
75.050   Riding abreast
   
75.051   Carrying packages or other articles
   
75.052   Parking
   
75.053   Lamps and reflectors
   
75.054   Audible warning devices
   
75.055   Brakes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.001 BICYCLE DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride and having two tandem wheels, either of which is over 20 inches in
diameter.
(Prior Code, § 75.01)
§ 75.002 RENTAL.
   A rental agency shall not rent or offer any bicycle for rent unless the
bicycle is registered and licensed and a license plate is attached thereto, as
provided in this chapter, and unless the bicycle is in good mechanical
condition and equipped with lamps and other equipment required by law.
(Prior Code, § 75.02) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.003 SALES.
   (A)   Every person engaged in the business of buying or selling new or
secondhand bicycles shall make a report to the Chief of Police of every bicycle
sold or exchanged by the dealer, and a report of all used or secondhand parts
of bicycles bought and shall give the Chief of Police the following
information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person from whom purchased or to whom
sold;
      (2)   Whenever available, the serial, factory and frame numbers;
      (3)   A full and complete description of the used or secondhand bicycles
or bicycle parts;
      (4)   The color;
      (5)   The type and model;
      (6)   The frame and wheel sizes;
      (7)   The name or make of the bicycle and of the brake;
      (8)   Other marks of identification; and
      (9)   The name of the license plate, if any, found thereon.
   (B)   No person shall purchase any used or secondhand bicycle from a minor
under 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 75.03) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.004 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer shall have the right to seize and hold any bicycle which
has been operated contrary to the provisions of this chapter until a time as
the penalty provided for the violation shall have been fully paid or replevied.
(Prior Code, § 75.04) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.005 PERMITTING MINOR TO VIOLATE CHAPTER.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 75.05) Penalty, see §
70.999
LICENSES
§ 75.020 REQUIRED.
   No person who resides within this city shall ride or propel a bicycle on any
street or upon any public way within the city unless the bicycle has been
registered and licensed and a license plate or tag is attached thereto as
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 75.20) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.021 APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Application for a bicycle registration and license and license plate
or tag shall be made upon a form provided by the city, shall be made to the
police, and shall contain the approval of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Application for a bicycle registration and license shall contain the
name, address, and age of the owner and the name and serial number of the
bicycle to be licensed, together with any other descriptive or itemized matter
deemed necessary by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   An annual registration or license fee of an amount as set by the city
from time to time shall be paid to the city before each license or renewal
thereof is granted.
(Prior Code, § 75.21)
§ 75.022 IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS.
   (A)   For applicants for license under this subchapter, the police shall
stamp numbers on the frames of bicycles on which the serial numbers are
insufficient or illegible for identification purposes.
   (B)   No person other than police officers, as provided in this subchapter
shall alter or mutilate a number on the frame of any bicycle which is
registered or licensed pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 75.22) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.023 PREREQUISITE INSPECTION; ISSUANCE; DURATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall cause the inspection of each bicycle before
approving the licensing of the same and shall refuse to approve a license for
any bicycle which he or she determines is in an unsafe mechanical condition.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, upon receiving proper application, is authorized
to issue or to permit the police to issue a bicycle license, which shall be
effective until the next succeeding July 1.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall not approve the issuance of a license for
any bicycle when he or she knows or has reasonable ground to believe that the
applicant is not the owner of or entitled to the possession of the bicycle.
(Prior Code, § 75.23) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.024 RENEWAL.
   Upon the expiration of any bicycle license, the same may be renewed upon
application and payment of the same license fee as upon an original
application.
(Prior Code, § 75.24)
§ 75.025 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   The Mayor, upon recommendation of the Chief of Police, may revoke or suspend
any license issued pursuant to this subchapter after a hearing had upon seven
days’ notice to the licensee upon proof that the license has been obtained by
fraud or misrepresentation or upon proof of repeated violation of this chapter
or state laws pertaining to bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 75.25) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.026 RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept a record of the number of each
registration and license, the date issued, the name of the person to whom
issued, the number on the frame of the bicycle for which issued and a record of
all bicycle registration or license fees collected by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 75.26)
§ 75.027 PLATES OR TAGS; SALE OR TRANSFER OF BICYCLE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, upon issuing or causing a bicycle license to be
issued, shall also issue a license plate or tag bearing the license number
assigned to the bicycle, the name “East Chicago” and the calendar year for
which issued.
   (B)   The license plate or tag shall be firmly attached to the rear mudguard
or frame of the bicycle for which issued, and shall be kept in a position as to
be plainly visible from the rear. In case of loss or theft of the tag a report
shall be made to the Chief of Police who shall, upon payment of the cost of the
tag, issue a duplicate tag.
   (C)   No person shall mutilate or alter a license plate or tag, nor shall
any person remove a license plate or tag from a bicycle during the period for
which issued except when the bicycle is dismantled and is no longer operated
upon any street in this city.
   (D)   Upon the sale or other transfer of a registered and licensed bicycle,
the licensee shall remove the license plate and shall surrender the same to the
Chief of Police. Every person who sells or transfers ownership of any bicycle
shall report the sale or transfer to the office of the Chief of Police within
seven days of the sale or transfer, together with the name and address of the
person to whom the bicycle was sold or transferred.
(Prior Code, § 75.27) Penalty, see §
70.999
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 75.040 APPLICABILITY OF MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of a
vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 75.40)
§ 75.041 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   When signs are erected indicating that no person shall ride or operate
a bicycle within a public park or any part thereof, no riding or operation
shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 75.41) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.042 METHOD OF OPERATION.
   (A)   A person operating a bicycle shall not ride other than upon or astride
the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry any other person
upon a bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular seat thereon, nor
shall any person ride upon a bicycle other than as above stated.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 75.42) see §
70.999
§ 75.043 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person 16 or more years of age shall ride a bicycle upon any
sidewalk.
   (B)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 75.43) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.044 RIDING ON ROADWAYS.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction. Whenever a usable
path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a roadway, bicycle riders shall
use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 75.44) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.045 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 75.45) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.046 RACING.
   No person operating a bicycle upon a public street shall participate in any
race or speed or endurance contest with any other vehicle except upon
supervised play streets.
(Prior Code, § 75.46) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.047 TURNING.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the direction of
any the sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle to make any
turn, in which event the person shall then obey the regulations applicable to
pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 75.47) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.048 YIELDING RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building,
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alley
way, shall yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 75.48) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.049 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach the same or himself or
herself to any other vehicle upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 75.49) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.050 RIDING ABREAST.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Prior Code, § 75.50) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.051 CARRYING PACKAGES OR OTHER ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handle bars.
(Prior Code, § 75.51) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.052 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 75.52) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.053 LAMPS AND REFLECTORS.
   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 500
feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which shall be
visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting
a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in
addition to the red reflector.
(Prior Code, § 75.53) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.054 AUDIBLE WARNING DEVICES.
   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or other
device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100 feet;
except, that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use upon
a bicycle any siren or whistle. The bell shall be operated to warn others of
the approach of the bicycle to avoid collision.
(Prior Code, § 75.54) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 75.055 BRAKES.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 75.55) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 76: RAILROADS
Section
General Provisions
   
76.001   Definitions
   
76.002   Switching at certain hours prohibited
   
76.003   Reports of accidents
   
76.004   Reporting ownership or management of tracks
   
76.005   Grade of tracks
   
76.006   Use of streets generally
   
76.007   Change of position or alignment of tracks
   
76.008   Removal of tracks by city
   
76.009   Speed of trains
   
76.010   Unnecessary signals
   
76.011   Escape of steam
   
76.012   Smoke emission
   
76.013   Waiting rooms
   
76.014   Toilets on trains
   
76.015   Maintenance of depot grounds and right-of-way
Crossings
   
76.030   Obstructing; prohibited conduct
   
76.031   Maintenance
   
76.032   Compliance with street grade; specifications
   
76.033   Stopping at certain intersections
   
76.034   Crossing protection; required
   
76.035   Crossing protection; interference
Safety Gates
   
76.050   Generally
   
76.051   Additional warnings
   
76.052   Operation
Safety Features
   
76.065   Safety features; joint operation
   
76.066   Safety features; supervision of installation
   
76.067   Single or short-arm gates
   
76.068   Duties of trainman or watchperson
   
76.069   Types and location of protection devices
 
   
76.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 76.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSSING LIGHTS. Electric lights of not less than 300 watts which shall be
kept lighted daily during the same hours of each day and night that the city
street lights are lighted.
   ELECTRIC BULL’S EYE SIGNAL LIGHT. An illuminated railroad signal light
containing not less than three lights of not less than 25 watts each or their
equivalent to be kept lighted daily for 24 hours.
   FLASHER LIGHTS.
      (1)   A “wig-wag” or electric automatic system of warning traffic of the
approach of trains by the flashing of signal lights in a manner as to give the
proper warning of the approach of railroad cars, locomotives or trains and so
contrived, constructed, and automatically operated as to cause the lights to
flash as a warning upon the approach of any engine, car or train of cars and to
continue to flash or “wig-wag” until the engine, car, or train of cars shall be
passed.
      (2)   These automatic signals shall be placed on each side of the
railroad track and shall flash a danger signal in sufficient time to warn
persons and shall remain flashing until the railroad train has passed the
intersecting street.
   FLOOD LIGHTS.
      (1)   An electric FLOOD LIGHT of not less than 400 watts, as set out in
the schedules, to be kept lighted during the same hours of each day and night
that the city street lights are lighted. As an alternative to the installation
and maintenance of an electric FLOOD LIGHT, as herein required, there may be
installed and erected a mercury vapor light at the option of the railroad
company.
      (2)   When a mercury vapor light is erected, maintained, and operated, it
shall be of not less than 400 watts capacity.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than street
cars, operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric, or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except street cars.
   TRAINMAN. A member of the train crew who is required to take a position on
the railroad crossing and, by means of red flag or signal by day and by light
at night shall warn persons of the approach and crossing of the train.
   WATCHPERSON. A railroad employee who is stationed at a railroad crossing and
who shall have the duty of warning persons, by means of visible signals or by
safety gates where gates are required, of the approach and crossing of a train.
(Prior Code, § 77.01)
§ 76.002 SWITCHING AT CERTAIN HOURS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person having charge or control of any locomotive,
railway freight cars, freight trains or railway switching yards situated in
whole or in part of the city, to operate or cause to be operated a locomotive,
railway freight cars or freight trains across the streets in the city in making
up trains or in the distribution of cars in railroad yards, commonly called
“switching,” or in drawing trains or cars over spur tracks to and from
industrial company property necessitating the crossing of streets, between the
hours of 6:30 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. of any day.
(Prior Code, § 77.02) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.003 REPORTS OF ACCIDENTS.
   It shall be the duty of each railroad company, in the event of a collision
or accident within the city, between a train and vehicle, or between a train
and persons operating or riding in or on vehicles, or between a train and
pedestrians, to file or cause to be filed, with the Chief of Police, a written
report, within ten days of the collision, setting out the name, place, time,
engine number, names of the engineer and person in charge of the train involved
in the collision or accident, the name of the railroad company operating the
train, and the company owning, operating, controlling, or maintaining and the
right-of-way at the place of the accident.
(Prior Code, § 77.03) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.004 REPORTING OWNERSHIP OR MANAGEMENT OF TRACKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all railroad companies or other persons,
owning, controlling, or managing railroad tracks within the city to register
with the City Engineer the ownership, management, location, and control of its
tracks in this city showing the complete lines and routes in the city.
   (B)   A map or plat thereof, containing the information concerning the
tracks, verified by a person or officer authorized to do so, shall also be
filed with the City Engineer. Any changes, transfers, or assignments shall also
be filed in a similar manner.
(Prior Code, § 77.04) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.005 GRADE OF TRACKS.
   (A)   (1)   The tracks of all railroad companies, as laid and maintained
along or across any of the streets of the city, shall be made to conform to the
grade and level fixed by the City Engineer or Board of Public Works and Safety,
except, however, that this obligation shall not be applicable in connection
with any grade separation project.
      (2)   Whenever in the opinion of the Board of Public Works and Safety it
is necessary to regrade, pave, repave, or repair any street in which the
railroad tracks are laid, the railroad company shall take up and re-lay the
tracks or otherwise adjust them to the grade established, within 30 days from
receipt of notice therefor from the Board.
   (B)   (1)   If the railroad company shall fail or neglect to take up the
rails and tracks and re-lay them, the Board may cause the same to be done and
charge the cost to the railroad company.
      (2)   In case of failure by the railroad company to pay the cost thereof,
the city shall have a cause of action therefor against the railroad company for
the cost of the work.
   (C)   Charging the railroad company for the work or paying of the same shall
not exclude the railroad from liability for the penalty provided in this code.
(Prior Code, § 77.05) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.006 USE OF STREETS GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   No railroad company or any other person shall be permitted to
occupy any street or part thereof or to lay any tracks across or to cross any
street, alley, or public way or to move any tracks over places in the city
without first obtaining written permission from the Board of Public Works and
Safety after written application has been made.
      (2)   This permission may require that the permission granted shall be
subject to approval and ratification of the Common Council.
   (B)   Each day that the tracks shall cross any public street, alley,
sidewalk, or public way, in violation of this code, may be considered a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 77.06) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.007 CHANGE OF POSITION OR ALIGNMENT OF TRACKS.
   No railroad company or any other person, shall be permitted to change the
position or alignment of its tracks crossing any public street or to make any
addition, or to cross any street in the city hereafter without obtaining the
consent of the city as provided in §
76.006.
(Prior Code, § 77.07) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.008 REMOVAL OF TRACKS BY CITY.
   Upon direction from the Mayor or the Board of Public Works and Safety, the
Supervisor of Public Works shall tear out any railroad track laid in violation
of the provisions of this chapter, and shall remove the same from any street,
alley, or public way or place on which they are found or have been laid.
(Prior Code, § 77.08) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.009 SPEED OF TRAINS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated, any
locomotive, train, or group or cut of cars within the city at a rate of speed
exceeding 25 mph.
(Prior Code, § 77.09) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.010 UNNECESSARY SIGNALS.
   No person owning or operating a railroad, locomotive, or train shall cause
or allow the whistle of any locomotive engine to be sounded within the city
unnecessarily. No person owning or operating a railroad shall cause or allow
the bell of any locomotive engine to be rung unnecessarily or continuously when
the locomotive is stationary or when the locomotive or train does not enter or
pass over a street intersection.
(Prior Code, § 77.10) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.011 ESCAPE OF STEAM.
   It is unlawful to open cylinder cocks on any locomotive to permit the escape
of steam while operating upon any track of any railroad within the city in
proximity to any street crossing; provided, that when the locomotive has been
standing still, the cylinder cock may be opened for a sufficient length of time
to permit the escape of condensed steam.
(Prior Code, § 77.11) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.012 SMOKE EMISSION.
   No person owning or operating a locomotive engine shall permit the emission
of dense smoke within the city contrary to the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 77.12) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.013 WAITING ROOMS.
   Any person having and using any depot or waiting room for the purpose of
public passenger travel on any railroad line running into or through the city
shall provide separate public toilets for men and women for the accommodation
of its passengers or for the public using the passenger depot, which toilets
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary manner and any failure to do so is
declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 77.13) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.014 TOILETS ON TRAINS.
   Toilets on trains while in the city shall not be flushed. It shall be the
duty of persons operating or controlling trains while in or traveling though
the city to lock all toilet doors to prevent the use of the toilets.
(Prior Code, § 77.14) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.015 MAINTENANCE OF DEPOT GROUNDS AND RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be the duty of all persons owning or controlling railroad depots,
railroad tracks, and railroad rights-of-way within the city, to keep and
maintain these places in a clean and sanitary condition and shall, wherever
reasonable, plant grass, trees, or flowers around the depots. The persons shall
have a right to request supervisory cooperation from the Department of Parks.
(Prior Code, § 77.15) Penalty, see §
76.999
CROSSINGS
§ 76.030 OBSTRUCTING; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any railroad company or any person operating or having
charge or control of any railroad train, railroad car, or engine within the
city:
   (A)   To permit, allow, or cause any train, railroad car, or engine to stand
at any intersection of any street, sidewalk, or alley, for a period longer than
five minutes at any one time, without allowing vehicles and pedestrians to
cross the railroad tracks, except when necessary to comply with governmental
safety regulations or where the train, railroad car, or engine cannot be moved
by reason of circumstances over which the railroad company has no control;
   (B)   To obstruct any intersection of any street, sidewalk, or alley for a
period longer than five minutes at any one time by switching, without allowing
vehicles and pedestrians to cross the railroad tracks over any street,
sidewalk, or alley, except when necessary to comply with governmental safety
regulations or where the train, railroad car, or engine cannot be moved by
reason of circumstances over which the railroad company has no control;
   (C)   This section shall not apply to trains, railroad cars, or engines in
motion, other than those engaged in switching; and
   (D)   This section is enacted to promote the public interest and welfare of
the residents of the city and those using its public streets, sidewalks, and
alleys, not to control railroad safety, thus its enactment shall not supplant
current state law governing “negligence” or the lack thereof by railroads,
their employees and/or agents at street, sidewalk, and alleyway crossings.
(Prior Code, § 77.30) (Ord. 0-99-0028, passed 12-30-1999) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.031 MAINTENANCE.
   In order that railroad tracks in the city may be crossed with safety and
convenience by the public, it shall be the duty of each railroad company or
person, where its tracks intersect or cross any street, sidewalk, or alley in
this city, to grade and plank, pave, and maintain the street, sidewalk, or
alley at the crossings or intersections in the manner designated in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 77.31) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.032 COMPLIANCE WITH STREET GRADE; SPECIFICATIONS.
   At the point where a track intersects or crosses any street, it shall be the
duty of the railroad company or person owning or maintaining the same, to make
the grade therefor conform to the established grade of the street and to pave
the same with paving blocks, bituminous products, asphalt, or any accepted or
equal material or to lay down securely, strong and substantial planks or steel
plates or concrete slabs between and on either side for four feet six inches
from the center of the track, in a manner that the planks, steel plates, or
concrete slabs, or paving blocks, bituminous products, asphalt, or any accepted
equal, shall extend the entire pavement width of the streets, and for the width
of sidewalks. The construction or repair required shall be done and maintained
in good condition, in every case to the satisfaction of the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 77.32) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.033 STOPPING AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS.
   All railroad trains entering Euclid Ave. south of 144th St. and north of
Baltimore and Ohio Chicago Terminal Railroad tracks, at about the gate of the
General American Transportation Company, shall be required to come to a full,
positive, and complete stop before entering Euclid Ave.
(Prior Code, § 77.33) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.034 CROSSING PROTECTION; REQUIRED.
   Crossing protection shall be maintained and operated by the respective
railroads or persons in accordance with the provisions, requirements, and
schedules of this chapter, entirely at the expense of the railroads. Each
protection shall be used in a manner as to afford persons and property
protection against injury and damage.
(Prior Code, § 77.34) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.035 CROSSING PROTECTION; INTERFERENCE.
   It is unlawful for any person, unless duly authorized, to interfere in any
manner with any crossing protection.
(Prior Code, § 77.35) Penalty, see §
76.999
SAFETY GATES
§ 76.050 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Definition. The term SAFETY GATES as used in this subchapter is
defined to mean gates that as are commonly in use, extending across a street
and sidewalk, and parallel or nearly parallel or nearly parallel to the tracks
of the railroad intersecting the street.
   (B)   Construction. The gates shall be so constructed that their arms shall
be of the length, when lowered, as to reach completely across the street,
including the sidewalk, on which traffic and pedestrians are to be stopped.
   (C)   Placement. The gates shall be placed on both sides of the tracks or
intersection and shall be so constructed that the gate arms, when in a position
to indicate that traffic shall stop, shall be in a horizontal position and not
more than three feet four inches above the grade of the street.
   (D)   Lights. Each of the gate arms shall have fixed thereon at least three
red electric lights of not less than 25 watts each, to warn travelers when the
gates are down; and the lights shall be lit at all times when the gates are
down.
(Prior Code, § 77.50) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.051 ADDITIONAL WARNINGS.
   In addition to safety gates there shall also be installed a crossing bell
with the gates, at each of the crossings herein named, which bell shall be
sounded as a warning whenever the gates are lowered and trains pass over the
crossing.
(Prior Code, § 77.51) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.052 OPERATION.
   Railroad safety gates shall be lowered, in time, as a warning and in an
effort to prevent traffic from using the streets, to offer some obstruction to
travelers and to discourage travelers on the streets and sidewalks from any
attempt to cross the intersection of the tracks and public ways, when trains
are approaching and cross the intersections. After the locomotives, cars,
trains, or other vehicles operating on the railroad tracks shall have passed
over the crossings, the gates shall then be raised to allow traffic and
pedestrians to resume travel on the streets; provided, that the duty of
lowering and raising the gates, aforesaid, shall be performed during each hour
of the day and night of each passage of the locomotives, cars, trains, and
other vehicles on the tracks over the crossings, unless otherwise specifically
provided.
(Prior Code, § 77.52) Penalty, see §
76.999
SAFETY FEATURES
§ 76.065 SAFETY FEATURES; JOINT OPERATION.
   Where the lines of right-of-way of two or more companies adjoin and run
parallel where they cross any of the streets named or where the lines are
operated jointly by two or more companies, the construction, operation, and
maintenance of one set of gates at each of the street crossings shall be
considered a compliance with the provisions of this chapter whenever the same
can be done with adequate safety and full protection to persons and pedestrians
using the streets. Under similar circumstances, two or more companies may
employ a trainman or watchperson or install, operate, and maintain electric
lights or electric flasher lights, when the safety methods are required; but
this joint compliance provision shall not diminish the individual
responsibility of each person or company.
(Prior Code, § 77.65) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.066 SAFETY FEATURES; SUPERVISION OF INSTALLATION.
   Safety gates, flasher lights, flood lights, and crossing lights shall be
located and constructed under the direction and supervision of the City
Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 77.66) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.067 SINGLE OR SHORT-ARM GATES.
   (A)   It is expressly provided that the installation or use of railroad
safety gates of the “short-arm” or “single-arm” variety shall not be considered
as compliance with the requirements of this chapter unless the gates reach
completely across the street and sidewalk or sidewalks.
   (B)   Where “short-arm” or “single-arm” gates or gates other than herein
described or required are installed or used, they shall be removed and
appropriate safety gates which fully meet the requirements of this chapter
shall be installed and used.
(Prior Code, § 77.67)
§ 76.068 DUTIES OF TRAINMAN OR WATCHPERSON.
   (A)   Where and when a trainman or watchperson is required by this code, he
or she shall be employed for the purpose of providing reasonable protection
against death, personal injury, and property damage. It shall be the duty of a
railroad crossing trainman or watchperson, by appropriate signals, to keep and
warn all persons and vehicles from its tracks, at the various crossings, during
the approach and passing of any railroad car, engine, or train.
   (B)   Where a watchperson or trainman is required, he or she shall be
stationed at the intersection on the ground or at the crossing level.
   (C)   Where no provision is otherwise made in this chapter for crossing
protection, warning, or signals, a trainman of the train which crosses a
railroad crossing shall give adequate warning, by signal, of the intended
crossing and crossing of the train.
(Prior Code, § 77.68) Penalty, see §
76.999
§ 76.069 TYPES AND LOCATION OF PROTECTION DEVICES.
   (A)   The types and locations of railroad crossing protection devices shall
be from time to time established by the City Council and as set out in the
schedule on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The numbers given to the specific railroad crossing locations, shown
in the schedule are shown on a railroad safety city map, which is by this
reference incorporated into and made a part of this chapter and two copies of
the map are on file in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 77.69)
§ 76.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.999.
   (B)   Obstructing; prohibited conduct. For each violation of §
76.030, defined as each separate stopping or switching of trains, railroad
cars, or engines in violation hereof, a penalty consisting of a fine not
exceeding an amount as set by the city from time to time shall be assessed,
thus any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate the provisions of §
76.030 shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not to exceed an amount as
set by the city from time to time. However, no railroad conductor or engineer
acting under the rules or orders of a railroad company or its supervisory
personnel may be fined for thereby violating §
76.030.
(Prior Code, § 77.99) (Ord. 0-99-0028, passed 12-30-1999)
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   Miscellaneous traffic control signs
   
III.   One-way streets
   
IV.   Two-way streets
   
V.   Speed limits; Marktown streets
   
VI.   Speed limits
   
VII.   Size and load limits
   
VIII.   Speed bump locations
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop sign locations.
      (1)   By intersection.
Intersection Type of Stop Street to Stop/Yield
Intersection              Type of Stop               Street to Stop/Yield
129th St. and Dickey Rd.  4-way stop
135th St. and Deodar St.  4-way stop
136th St. and Grand Blvd. 2-way stop
136th St. and the parking
lot entrance to Lincoln   2-way stop
School (east and
westbound)
138th St. and Drummond    3-way stop
St. (one-way southbound)
138th St. and Pulaski St. 3-way stop
138th St. and Grand Blvd. 4-way stop
139th St. and Drummond    4-way stop
St.
140th St. and Drummond    3-way stop
St.
140th St. and Hemlock St. 2-way stop
140th St. Pl. and Deal    4-way stop
St.
140th St. and Grace St.
(northeast and southwest  4-way stop
corners)
140th Pl. and Catalpa     4-way stop
Ave.
                                                     Deal St. southbound to
                                                     stop for 140th St.; 140th
140th St. and Deal St.                               St. westbound to stop for
                                                     Deal St.; 140th St.
                                                     eastbound to stop for Deal
                                                     St.
140th St. and Hemlock St.                            140th St. to stop for
                                                     Hemlock St.
                                                     140th St. to stop for
140th St. and Grand Blvd. 2-way stop                 Grand Blvd. and Grand
                                                     Blvd. to stop for 140th
                                                     St.
141st Pl. and Dearborn    3-way stop sign
St.
141st Pl. and Butternut   2-way stop                 141st Pl. will be a
St.                                                  through street
141st St. and Dearborn                               Dearborn St. traffic to
St.                                                  stop for 141st St. traffic
141st Pl. and Dearborn    1-way stop                 141st Pl. to stop for
St.                                                  Dearborn St.
141st Pl. and Butternut   4-way stop
St.
                                                     All north, south, east,
141st Pl. and Butternut   4-way stop                 west vehicles are required
St.                                                  to stop before entering
                                                     the intersection
                                                     Grand Blvd. traffic to
142nd St. and Grand Blvd.                            stop at 142nd St. for the
                                                     easterly and westerly
                                                     traffic
                                                     142nd to stop for Tod Ave.
142nd St. and Tod Ave.    4-way stop                 and Tod to stop for 142nd
                                                     St. before proceeding
142nd St. and Wegg Ave.   4-way stop
143rd St. and Parrish
Ave. (north and           2-way stop
southbound)
143rd St. and Wegg Ave.   2-way stop
(east to west)
144th St. and Grand Blvd.
(northeast and southwest  3-way stop
corners)
144th St. and Ivy St.     Portable 3-way stop
144th St. and Parrish     Portable 4-way stop
Ave.
144th St. and Parrish     4-way stop
Ave.
                                                     All vehicles are required
144th St. and Ivy St.     3-way stop                 to stop before entering
                                                     the intersection
149th Pl. and Gladiola    4-way stop
Ave. and Jonquil Ln.
149th St. and Walsh Ave.  4-way stop
150th St. and Parrish     2-way stop                 150th St. to stop for
Ave.                                                 Parrish Ave.
150th St. and Ivy St.     2-way stop                 150th St. to stop for Ivy
                                                     St.
150th St. and Euclid Ave. 2-way stop                 150th St. to stop for
                                                     Euclid Ave.
150th St. and Drummond    2-way stop                 150th St. to stop for
St.                                                  Drummond St.
150th St. and Carey St.   2-way stop                 150th St. to stop for
                                                     Carey St.
150th St. and Grasselli   2-way stop                 150th St. to stop for
Ave.                                                 Grasselli Ave.
150th St. and Grasselli   3-way stop
Ave.
                                                     Intersection is 2-way stop
                                                     for 151st St. and 1-way
                                                     for McCook Ave.; however
151st St. and McCook Ave. 4-way stop                 the Monarch Steel Company
                                                     Plant entrance at that
                                                     intersection is also to
                                                     stop before entering the
                                                     intersection
151st St. and Olcott Ave. 2-way stop
(eastbound and westbound)
                                                     151st St. easterly and
                                                     westerly traffic to stop
151st St. and Tod Ave.    3-way stop                 for Tod Ave. and
                                                     southbound traffic on Tod
                                                     Ave. to stop for 151st St.
Alder St. and Purdue Dr.  3-way stop
Baring Ave. and Columbus  3-way stop
Dr.
Baring Ave. and Roxana
Dr. (both directions)
Beacon St. and Wegg Ave.  3-way stop
Broad St. and Pine St.                               Pine St. to stop and yield
                                                     right-of-way to Broad St.
                                                     Broad St. to stop at
Broad St. and Spruce Ave.                            Spruce Ave. and yield
                                                     right-of-way
Broadway St. and Elm St.  3-way stop
                                                     Parrish Ave. to stop for
Broadway St. and Parrish  4-way stop                 Broadway St. and Broadway
Ave.                                                 St. to stop for Parrish
                                                     Ave.
Butternut St. (N.                                    Butternut St. (N. Cardinal
Cardinal Dr.) and         3-way stop                 Dr.) to stop before
Cardinal Dr.                                         entering Cardinal Dr.
Cardinal Dr. and E.                                  E. Guadalupe Cir. 2700 to
Guadalupe Cir.                                       stop for Cardinal Dr. 2700
Cardinal Dr. and E.       3-way stop                 E. Guadalupe Cir. before
Guadalupe Cir.                                       entering Cardinal Dr.
Cardinal Dr. and E.       3-way stop                 Cardinal Dr. to stop for
Guadalupe Cir.                                       E. Guadalupe Cir.
Cardinal Dr. and Kenny    3-way stop
Lofton Ln.
Cardinal Dr. W and W.                                W. Guadalupe Cir. 4300 to
Guadalupe Cir.                                       stop for Cardinal Dr. W
                                                     4300
Cardinal Ter.             Stop signs at entrance and
                          exit
Carey St. and E. 149th
St.
Columbus Dr. and Homerlee 2-way stop
Ave.
Columbus Dr. and Magoun   3-way stop
Ave.
Columbus Dr. and          3-way stop
Northcote Ave.
Columbus Dr. and Wegg     3-way stop
Ave.
Deal St. and Grace St.    3-way stop
Deal St. and Hawthorne                               Northbound Hawthorne St.
St.                                                  stops for Deal St.
Deal St. and Lombardy St.                            Northbound Lombardy St.
                                                     stops for Deal St.
Dearborn St. and Grace
St. (north and south and  3-way stop
east and west)
Dearborn St. and                                     Southbound Hawthorne St.,
Hawthorne St.                                        stops for Dearborn St.
Dearborn St. and Lombardy                            Southbound Lombardy St.
St.                                                  stops for Dearborn St.
Dickey Rd. and Park St.   3-way stop
Drummond St. and E. 149th
St.
E. 150th St. and the
alleyway immediately east
of 5001 Melville Ave.
Euclid Ave. and E. 149th
St.
Franklin Elementary       Portable 2-way stop
School
Grasselli Ave. and E.
149th St.
                                                     Grove St. to stop and
Grove St. and Oak Ave.                               yield right-of-way to Oak
                                                     Ave.
Grove St. and Oak St.     2-way stop
                                                     Grove St. to stop and
Grove St. and Pine Ave.                              yield right-of-way to Pine
                                                     Ave.
Grove St. and Spruce Ave. 3-way stop
Guadalupe Cir. (east and
westbound) and Lane of    3-way stop
the Roses;
Guadalupe Cir. (north and
southbound) and Lane of   3-way stop
the Roses;
Guadalupe Cir. and Lane                              Lane of the Roses to stop
of the Roses                                         for Guadalupe Cir. 2600
W. Guadalupe Cir. and                                Lane of the Roses to stop
Lane of the Roses                                    for W. Guadalupe Cir. 4365
Hidalgo Ln. and           3-way stop
Lithuanica Ave.
Homerlee Ave. and Roxana
Dr. (both directions)
Ivy St. and E. 149th St.
Kosciusko Blvd. and White 2-way stop
Oak Ave.
                                                     Northeast bound traffic on
Liberty St. and Oak Ave.                             Liberty St. to stop and
                                                     yield right-of-way to Oak
                                                     Ave.
                                                     Southwest bound traffic on
Liberty St. and Pine Ave.                            Liberty St. to stop and
                                                     yield right-of-way to Pine
                                                     Ave.
                                                     Liberty St. northeast and
Liberty St. and Spruce                               southwest bound traffic to
Ave.                                                 stop and yield right-of-
                                                     way to Spruce Ave.
                                                     Lilac St. to stop and
Lilac St. and Oak Ave.                               yield right-of-way to Oak
                                                     Ave.
                                                     Lilac St. to stop and
Lilac St. and Pine Ave.                              yield right-of-way to Pine
                                                     Ave.
                                                     Northeast and southwest
Lilac St. and Spruce Ave.                            bound traffic on Lilac St.
                                                     to stop and yield right-
                                                     of-way to Spruce Ave.
Lincoln Elementary School Portable 2-way stop
McCook Ave. and the
alleyway at 4713
McCook Ave. and alleyway
at 4714
Oak Ave. and Park St.     3-way stop
                                                     School St. to stop and
Oak Ave. and School St.                              yield right-of-way to Oak
                                                     Ave.
Oak St. and Spring St.                               Oak St. to stop and yield
                                                     right-of-way to Spring St.
Park St. and Pine Ave.    2-way stop
Park St. and Spruce Ave.  3-way stop
Parrish Ave. and E. 149th
St.
Pine Ave. and Prospect                               Prospect St. to stop and
St.                                                  yield right-of-way to Pine
                                                     Ave.
Pine Ave. and Spring St.  2-way stop
Prospect St. and Spruce                              Prospect St. to stop and
Ave.                                                 yield right-of-way to
                                                     Spruce Ave.
Reading Ave. and Roxana
Dr. (both directions)
School St. and Spruce                                School St. to stop and
Ave.                                                 yield right-of-way to
                                                     Spruce Ave.
                                                     Spring St. northeast bound
Spring St. and Spruce                                and southwest bound
Ave.                                                 traffic to stop and yield
                                                     right-of-way at Spruce
                                                     Ave.
Vernon Ave. (436)
Vernon Ave. (427)
 
      (2)   Preferential streets. 129th St., Dickey Rd., and Riley Rd. are
designated preferential streets and all traffic leaving the Marktown
Subdivision is to stop prior to entering the streets and yield the right-of-way
and stop signs shall be erected to evidence this.
      (3)   Specific intersection provisions. Specific stop sign locations are
as follows:
         (a)   Stop signs to be placed on the northeast corner and the
southwest corner of 141st St. and Dearborn St., which will then become a three-
way stop intersection;
         (b)   Three-way stop signs placed at the intersection of 149th Pl. and
McCook Ave.;
         (c)   Two-way stop signs on the east and west intersection of 151st
St. of Wegg Ave.;
         (d)   Two-way stop signs on the east and west intersection of 149th
St. and Wegg Ave.; and
         (e)   Two-way stop signs on the east and west intersection of 150th
St. and Reading Ave.
(Prior Code, § 71.140)
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
71.999 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Violation of division (A)(3)(a) above shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding an amount as set by the city from time to time and costs.
      (3)   Violation of division (A)(3)(b) above shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding an amount as set by the city from time to time and costs.
      (4)   Violation of division (A)(3)(c) above shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding an amount as set by the city from time to time and costs.
      (5)   Violation of division (A)(3)(d) above shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding an amount as set by the city from time to time and costs.
      (6)   Violation of division (A)(3)(e) above shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding an amount as set by the city from time to time and costs.
(Prior Code, § 71.999)
(Ord. 3059, passed - -1974; Ord. 3061, passed - -1974; Ord. 3077, passed - -
1975; Ord. 3081, passed - -1975; Ord. 3090, passed - -1975; Ord. 3094, passed -
-1975; Ord. 3107, passed - -1976; Ord. 3113, passed - -1976; Ord. 3120, passed
- -1976; Ord. 3121, passed - -1976; Ord. 3122, passed - -1976; Ord. 3125,
passed - -1976; Ord. 3126, passed - -1976; Ord. 3128, passed - -1976; Ord.
3136, passed - -1977; Ord. 3153, passed - -1977; Ord. 3162, passed - -1977;
Ord. 3172, passed - -1977; Ord. 3194, passed - -1978; Ord. 3200, passed - -
1978; Ord. 3228, passed - -1979; Ord. 3229, passed - -1979; Ord. 3249, passed -
-1980; Ord. 3316, passed - -1982; Ord. 3334, passed - -1982; Ord. 3347, passed
- -1983; Ord. 3349, passed - -1983; Ord. 3373, passed - -1984; Ord. 3374,
passed - -1984; Ord. 3396, passed - -1985; Ord. 3408, passed - -1985; Ord.
3413, passed - -1985; Ord. 3414, passed - -1985; Ord. 3417, passed - -1985;
Ord. 3453, passed - -1987; Ord. 3422, passed - -1988; Ord. 3471, passed - -
1988; Ord. 3472, passed - -1988; Ord. 3473, passed - -1988; Ord. 3474, passed -
-1988; Ord. 3493, passed - -1989; Ord. 3516, passed - -1990; Ord. 3532, passed
- -1990; Ord. 3553, passed - -1992; Ord. 3554, passed - -1992; Ord. 3557,
passed - -1992; Ord. 3559, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-93-0009, passed - -1993; Ord.
0-93-0010, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0012, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-93-0021,
passed - -1993; Ord. 0-94-0001, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-94-0017, passed - -1994;
Ord. 0-95-0007, passed - -1995; Ord. 0-96-0016, passed - -1996; Ord. 0-97-0013,
passed - -1997; Ord. 0-98-0013, passed - -1998; Ord. 0-98-0019, passed 10-5-
1998; Ord. 0-98-0020, passed 10-5-1998; Ord. 0-98-0022, passed 11-30-1998; Ord.
0-98-0023, passed 11-30-1998; Ord. 0-99-0004, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 0-99-0005,
passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 0-00-0011, passed 5-8-2000; Ord. 0-01-0014, passed 5-30-
2001; Ord. 0-02-0038, passed - -2002; Ord. 0-02-0039, passed 11-25-2002; Ord.
04-0011, passed 5-5-2004; Ord. 0-05-0028, passed 8-22-2005; Ord. 0-06-0023,
passed 6-12-2006; Ord. 0-06-0033, passed 7-10-2006; Ord. 0-07-0008, passed 4-9-
2007; Ord. 0-07-0012, passed 5-29-2007; Ord. 10-0007, passed 6-28-2010; Ord.
19-0006, passed 4-22-2019; Ord. 21-0043, passed 6-28-2021; Ord. 21-0044, passed
6-28-2021; Ord. 21-0082, passed 11-10-2021; Ord. 23-0013, passed 5-24-2023)
SCHEDULE II. MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS.
   Cline Ave. and Pennsylvania Ave. is designated as a slow intersection and
the City Traffic Engineer and the Electrical Department are to place a “slow
factory entrance ahead” sign with warning amber or yellow attachment for
traffic on Cline Ave. as it approaches the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 71.141) Penalty, see §
71.999
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   One-way streets. The following streets are designated one-way streets.
      (1)   Schedule of streets.
Street Location Direction
Street                        Location                         Direction
143rd St.                     From Fir St. to Elm St.          Westbound
4900 block of McCook Ave.
Alexander Ave.                From Chicago Ave. to 151st St.   Northbound
Alley running north and south North from 138th St. and then
between Pulaski St. and Main  easterly to Pulaski St.          Northbound
St.
Alley running north and south From Columbus Dr.                Southbound only
parallel with McShane Dr.
Alley on the 49th block       Between McCook Ave. and          Southbound
                              Alexander Ave.
Alley running north and south Between Indianapolis Blvd. and   Southbound only
in the 4500 block             Magoun Ave.
Broad St.                                                      Northeast bound
Commonwealth Ave.             From Michigan Ave. to Huron Ct.  Southbound
Grand Blvd.                   From Michigan Ave. to 140th St., Southbound only
                              and 142nd St. to 144th St.
Homerlee Ave.                 Between 5500 and 5600 blocks     Southbound
Lincoln St.                   From Broadway St. to Guthrie St. Northeast bound
Melville Ave.                 From Chicago Ave. to 151st St.   Southbound
Oak Ave.                                                       Northwest bound
Pine Ave.                                                      Northwest bound
Spruce Ave.                                                    Southeast bound
 
      (2)   Specific one-way street provisions.
         (a)   The 3500 block of Block Ave. is to be changed from one-way west
to one-way east;
         (b)   The 3500 block of Pennsylvania Ave. to be changed from one-way
east to one-way west;
(Prior Code, § 71.142)
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
71.999 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Violation of division (A)(2) above shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed an amount as set by the city from time to time and costs.
(Prior Code, § 71.999)
(Ord. 3059, passed - -1974; Ord. 3061, passed - -1974; Ord. 3077, passed - -
1975; Ord. 3081, passed - -1975; Ord. 3090, passed - -1975; Ord. 3094, passed -
-1975; Ord. 3107, passed - -1976; Ord. 3113, passed - -1976; Ord. 3120, passed
- -1976; Ord. 3121, passed - -1976; Ord. 3122, passed - -1976; Ord. 3125,
passed - -1976; Ord. 3126, passed - -1976; Ord. 3128, passed - -1976; Ord.
3136, passed - -1977; Ord. 3153, passed - -1977; Ord. 3162, passed - -1977;
Ord. 3172, passed - -1977; Ord. 3184, passed - -1978; Ord. 3194, passed - -
1978; Ord. 3200, passed - -1978; Ord. 3207, passed - -1979; Ord. 3228, passed -
-1979; Ord. 3229, passed - -1979; Ord. 3248, passed - -1980; Ord. 3249, passed
- -1980; Ord. 3264, passed - -1981; Ord. 3311, passed - -1982; Ord. 3316,
passed - -1982; Ord. 3334, passed - -1982; Ord. 3347, passed - -1983; Ord.
3349, passed - -1983; Ord. 3360, passed - -1983; Ord. 3373, passed - -1984;
Ord. 3374, passed - -1984; Ord. 3396, passed - -1985; Ord. 3408, passed - -
1985; Ord. 3413, passed - -1985; Ord. 3414, passed - -1985; Ord. 3417, passed -
-1985; Ord. 3422, passed - -1988; Ord. 3446, passed - -1986; Ord. 3453, passed
- -1987; Ord. 3456, passed - -1987; Ord. 3471, passed - -1988; Ord. 3472,
passed - -1988; Ord. 3473, passed - -1988; Ord. 3474, passed - -1988; Ord.
3491, passed - -1989; Ord. 3493, passed - -1989; Ord. 3506, passed - -1989;
Ord. 3516, passed - -1990; Ord. 3532, passed - -1990; Ord. 3553, passed - -
1992; Ord. 3554, passed - -1992; Ord. 3557, passed - -1992; Ord. 3559, passed -
-1992; Ord. 0-93-0009, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0010, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-
93-0012, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-93-0021, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-94-0001, passed
- -1994; Ord. 0-94-0017, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-95-0007, passed - - 1995; Ord.
0-96-0016, passed - -1996; Ord. 0-97-0013, passed - -1997; Ord. 0-98-0013,
passed - -1998; Ord. 0-98-0019, passed 10-5-1998; Ord. 0-98-0020, passed 10-5-
1998; Ord. 0-98-0022, passed 11-30-1998; Ord. 0-98-0023, passed 11-30-1998;
Ord. 0-99-0004, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 0-99-0005, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 0-00-
0011, passed 5-8-2000; Ord. 0-01-0014, passed 5-30-2001; Ord. 0-02-0038, passed
- -2002; Ord. 0-02-0039, passed 11-25-2002; Ord. 0-04-0011, passed 5-5-2004;
Ord. 0-04-0028, passed 6-28-2004; Ord. 0-05-0028, passed 8-22-2005; Ord. 0-06-
0023, passed 6-12-2006; Ord. 0-06-0033, passed 7-10-2006; Ord. 0-07-0008,
passed 4-9-2007; Ord. 0-07-0012, passed 5-29-2007; Ord. 12-0025, passed 9-24-
2012; Ord. 16-0009, passed 10-10-2016)
SCHEDULE IV. TWO-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The following streets are designated two-way streets.
      (1)   Schedule of two-way streets.
 
Street                Location
140th St.             From Carey St. to Hawthorne St.
4100 block of Ivy St. From Columbus Dr. to the alley south of Columbus Dr.
Grand Blvd.           From 140th St. to 142nd St.
Grand Blvd.           From 140th St. to 144th St.
Magoun Ave.           From Chicago Ave. to the public way
McCook Ave.           From 151st St. to 149th St. north and southbound
 
      (2)   Specific two-way street provisions.
         (a)   135th St. is re-established as a two-way street from Michigan
Ave. to Grand Blvd.;
         (b)   139th St. is designated a two-way street from Euclid Ave. to
Carey St.
(Prior Code, § 71.143)
         (c)   Grand Blvd. is designated as a two-way street from 140th St. to
142nd St.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
71.999 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Violation of division (A)(2) above shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed an amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 71.999)
(Ord. 3059, passed - -1974; Ord. 3061, passed - -1974; Ord. 3077, passed - -
1975; Ord. 3081, passed - -1975; Ord. 3090, passed - -1975; Ord. 3094, passed -
-1975; Ord. 3107, passed - -1976; Ord. 3113, passed - -1976; Ord. 3120, passed
- -1976; Ord. 3121, passed - -1976; Ord. 3122, passed - -1976; Ord. 3125,
passed - -1976; Ord. 3126, passed - -1976; Ord. 3128, passed - -1976; Ord.
3136, passed - -1977; Ord. 3153, passed - -1977; Ord. 3162, passed - -1977;
Ord. 3172, passed - -1977; Ord. 3194, passed - -1978; Ord. 3200, passed - -
1978; Ord. 3228, passed - -1979; Ord. 3229, passed - -1979; Ord. 3249, passed -
-1980; Ord. 3316, passed - -1982; Ord. 3334, passed - -1982; Ord. 3347, passed
- -1983; Ord. 3349, passed - -1983; Ord. 3373, passed - -1984; Ord. 3374,
passed - -1984; Ord. 3396, passed - -1985; Ord. 3408, passed - -1985; Ord.
3413, passed - -1985; Ord. 3414, passed - -1985; Ord. 3417, passed - -1985;
Ord. 3453, passed - -1987; Ord. 3422, passed - -1988; Ord. 3471, passed - -
1988; Ord. 3472, passed - -1988; Ord. 3473, passed - -1988; Ord. 3474, passed -
-1988; Ord. 3493, passed - -1989; Ord. 3516, passed - -1990; Ord. 3532, passed
- -1990; Ord. 3553, passed - -1992; Ord. 3554, passed - -1992; Ord. 3557,
passed - -1992; Ord. 3559, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-93-0009, passed - -1993; Ord.
0-93-0010, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0012, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-93-0021,
passed - -1993; Ord. 0-94-0001, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-94-0017, passed - -1994;
Ord. 0-95-0007, passed - -1995; Ord. 0-96-0016, passed - -1996; Ord. 0-97-0013,
passed - -1997; Ord. 0-98-0013, passed - -1998; Ord. 0-98-0019, passed 10-5-
1998; Ord. 0-98-0020, passed 10-5-1998; Ord. 0-98-0022, passed 11-30-1998; Ord.
0-98-0023, passed 11-30-1998; Ord. 0-99-0004, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 0-99-0005,
passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 0-00-0011, passed 5-8-2000; Ord. 0-01-0014, passed 5-30-
2001; Ord. 0-02-0038, passed - -2002; Ord. 0-02-0039, passed 11-25-2002; Ord.
0-04-0011, passed 5-5-2004; Ord. 0-04-0028, passed 6-28-2004; Ord. 0-05-0028,
passed 8-22-2005; Ord. 0-06-0023, passed 6-12-2006; Ord. 0-06-0033, passed 7-
10-2006; Ord. 0-07-0008, passed 4-9-2007; Ord. 0-07-0012, passed 5-29-2007;
Ord. 16-0009, passed 10-10-2016)
SCHEDULE V. SPEED LIMITS; MARKTOWN STREETS.
   (A)   A speed limit of ten mph is enacted for all Marktown streets, namely:
      (1)   Pine Ave.;
      (2)   Spruce Ave.;
      (3)   Oak Ave.;
      (4)   Lilac St.;
      (5)   Grove St.;
      (6)   School St.;
      (7)   Park St.;
      (8)   Liberty St.;
      (9)   Spring St.;
      (10)   Prospect St.; and
      (11)   Broad St..
   (B)   Speed limits on 129th St., Dickey Rd., and Riley Rd. are not affected
by this section.
(Prior Code, § 71.144)
SCHEDULE VI. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit on Indianapolis Blvd. from McShane Ave. to 145th St.
and from 148th St. to 151st St. shall be reduced to 35 mph during normal
driving hours and that during school hours, or when schoolchildren are present,
the posted speed limit shall be 20 mph.
   (B)   It is hereby declared that the speed limit on Main St. shall be 25
mph. In the area of the school at the southeast corner of 139th and Main St.,
the speed limit shall be lowered to 20 mph in this school zone area. The school
zone area shall be posted at 20 mph during school hours, or when schoolchildren
are present.
   (C)   The speed limit on Main St. shall be reduced to 25 mph during normal
driving hours and that during school hours or when schoolchildren are present,
at the intersection of 139th and Main St., the posted speed limit shall be 20
mph.
   (D)   Main St. shall have posted speed limit signs to reflect the reduction
in speed limits, especially in the school zone area.
(Prior Code, § 71.145) (Ord. 0-03-0017, passed 3-24-2003; Ord. 11-0025, passed
10-11-2011) Penalty, see §
71.999
SCHEDULE VII. SIZE AND LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Truck operation. 
      (1)   No person shall operate a truck upon the following streets, except
when it is necessary to cross the streets at intersections, and to load and
unload the vehicles, in which case the vehicles shall not remain upon the
streets for a longer time than is necessary to load or unload the contents of
the vehicles:
Street Location
Street         Location
135th St.      From Hemlock St. to Guthrie St.
136th St.      From Parrish Ave. to Guthrie St.
148th St.      From White Oak Ave. to Railroad Ave.
148th St.      From Euclid Ave. east to city limits
149th St.      From Railroad Ave. to White Oak Ave.
150th St.      From Railroad Ave. to White Oak Ave.
151st St.      From Kennedy Ave. to White Oak Ave.
Baring Ave.    From Columbus Dr. to 151st St.
Euclid Ave.    From 144th St. north to Broadway
Fir St.        From Michigan Ave. to 144th St.
Grand Blvd.    From Michigan Ave. to 144th St.
Harrah’s Blvd.
Homerlee Ave.  From Columbus Dr. to 145th St.
Ivy St.        From Chicago Ave. south to city limits
Magoun Ave.    From Columbus Dr. to 151st St.
Northcote Ave. From Columbus Dr. to 145th St.
Parrish Ave.   South from Chicago Ave. to city limits
Wegg Ave.      From 151st St. to 148th St.
 
      (2)   Kennedy Ave. between 147th St. and 151st St. be designated for no
through truck traffic/local delivery only.
   (B)   Trucks in excess of five tons. No person shall operate any truck with
a capacity in excess of five tons on Riley Rd. between Indianapolis Blvd. and
Dickey Rd. except when necessary to load or unload the vehicles, in which case
the vehicles shall not remain on the street for a longer time than is necessary
to load or unload.
   (C)   Trucks in excess of one and one-half tons. Trucks of more than one and
one-half ton capacity except buses are prohibited on Columbus Dr., from Kennedy
Ave. to Cline Ave.
   (D)   Passing trucks. Trucks shall not pass each other on streets or parts
of streets when signs prohibiting the same are posted.
   (E)   Truck use on Drummond St. Trucks larger than three-quarter-ton are
banned from the use of Drummond St.
   (F)   Wegg Ave. No person shall operate a truck from 151st St. to 148th St.
on Wegg Ave., except when it is necessary to cross the streets at
intersections, and to load and unload the vehicles, in which case the vehicles
shall not remain upon the streets for a longer time than is necessary to load
or unload the contents of the vehicles.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Generally. Every person and/or corporation violating any provision
of this schedule except, divisions (E) and (F) above, shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined in an amount as set by the city from time to time, to which
may be added imprisonment for a term of not more than 180 days.
      (2)   Division (E). Violation of division (E) above shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed $100.
      (3)   Division (F). Violation of Division (F) above shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed $100 and costs.
(Prior Code, § 71.146)
(Ord. 3059, passed - -1974; Ord. 3061, passed - -1974; Ord. 3077, passed - -
1975; Ord. 3081, passed - -1975; Ord. 3090, passed - -1975; Ord. 3094, passed -
-1975; Ord. 3107, passed - -1976; Ord. 3113, passed - -1976; Ord. 3120, passed
- -1976; Ord. 3121, passed - -1976; Ord. 3122, passed - -1976; Ord. 3125,
passed - -1976; Ord. 3126, passed - -1976; Ord. 3128, passed - -1976; Ord.
3136, passed - -1977; Ord. 3153, passed - -1977; Ord. 3162, passed - -1977;
Ord. 3172, passed - -1977; Ord. 3194, passed - -1978; Ord. 3200, passed - -
1978; Ord. 3228, passed - -1979; Ord. 3229, passed - -1979; Ord. 3249, passed -
-1980; Ord. 3316, passed - -1982; Ord. 3334, passed - -1982; Ord. 3347, passed
- -1983; Ord. 3349, passed - -1983; Ord. 3373, passed - -1984; Ord. 3374,
passed - -1984; Ord. 3396, passed - -1985; Ord. 3408, passed - -1985; Ord.
3413, passed - -1985; Ord. 3414, passed - -1985; Ord. 3417, passed - -1985;
Ord. 3422, passed - -1988; Ord. 3453, passed - -1987; Ord. 3471, passed - -
1988; Ord. 3472, passed - -1988; Ord. 3473, passed - -1988; Ord. 3474, passed -
-1988; Ord. 3493, passed - -1989; Ord. 3516, passed - -1990; Ord. 3532, passed
- -1990; Ord. 3553, passed - -1992; Ord. 3554, passed - -1992; Ord. 3557,
passed - -1992; Ord. 3559, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-93-0009, passed - -1993; Ord.
0-93-0010, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0012, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-93-0021,
passed - -1993; Ord. 0-94-0001, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-94-0017, passed - -1994;
Ord. 0-95-0007, passed - -1995; Ord. 0-96-0016, passed - -1996; Ord. 0-97-0013,
passed - -1997; Ord. 0-98-0013, passed - -1998; Ord. 0-98-0019, passed 10-5-
1998; Ord. 0-98-0020, passed 10-5-1998; Ord. 0-98-0022, passed 11-30-1998; Ord.
0-98-0023, passed 11-30-1998; Ord. 0-99-0004, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 0-99-0005,
passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 0-00-0011, passed 5-8-2000; Ord. 0-01-0014, passed 5-30-
2001; Ord. 0-02-0038, passed - -2002; Ord. 0-02-0039, passed 11-25-2002; Ord.
0-03-0017, passed 3-24-2003; Ord. 0-04-0011, passed 5-5-2004; Ord. 0-04-0028,
passed 6-28-2004; Ord. 0-05-0028, passed 8-22-2005; Ord. 0-06-0023, passed 6-
12-2006; Ord. 0-06-0033, passed 7-10-2006; Ord. 0-07-0008, passed 4-9-2007;
Ord. 0-07-0012, passed 5-29-2007)
SCHEDULE VIII. SPEED BUMP LOCATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be two speed bumps located on Northcote Ave., between West
Columbus Dr. and West 142nd St.
   (B)   There shall be two speed bumps located on Baring Ave., between West
Columbus Dr. and West 142nd St.
   (C)   There shall be two speed bumps located on Baring Ave., between Carroll
St. and Shell St.
   (D)   There shall be non-asphalt speed bumps placed every 350 feet running
east and west bound on East 149th Pl., between Grasselli Ave. and Parrish Ave.
(Ord. 23-0009, passed 4-26-2023; Ord. 23-0012, passed 5-24-2023; Ord. 23-0019,
passed 6-14-2023)
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Restricted parking; certain times, certain places
   
II.   Fifteen-minute parking
   
III.   One hour parking
   
IV.   Two-hour parking
   
V.   Angle parking
   
VI.   Truck parking
   
VII.   Residential and no parking zones
   
VIII.   Handicapped persons parking spaces
   
IX.   No parking allowed
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING; CERTAIN TIMES, CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   Restricted parking locations.
      (1)   Schedule of restrictions.
Street Location Direction/Side Restriction
Street              Location            Direction/Side     Restriction
                                                           Restricted parking
                    From its                               areas wherein only
                    intersection with                      school buses may
140th St.           Alexander Ave. to a South side         park from the hours
                    point 50 feet west                     of 7:00 a.m. to 4:30
                    of the intersection                    p.m. Monday through
                                                           Friday on all school
                                                           days
                                                           Parking shall be
                                                           reserved for those
                                                           attending church
                                                           services on Sundays
                    From Main St. to                       from 8:00 a.m. until
140th St.           Deodar St.                             2:00 p.m. All other
                                                           parking on the
                                                           street shall be
                                                           prohibited during
                                                           the aforementioned
                                                           times
                                                           Parking is
145th St.           From Indianapolis   South side only    prohibited at all
                    Blvd. to Tod Ave.                      times Monday through
                                                           Friday
                                                           Parking, except
                                                           where otherwise
                                                           prohibited by law,
4200 block of Alder Between Jeorse Cir. East side          is restricted to 15-
St.                 and Cardinal Dr.                       minute parking
                                                           between 7:30 a.m. to
                                                           4:30 p.m. Monday
                                                           through Friday
                                                           Restricted parking
                    From its                               areas wherein only
                    intersection with                      school buses may
Alexander Ave.      140th St. to a      West side          park from the hours
                    point 50 feet south                    of 7:00 a.m. to 4:30
                    of the intersection                    p.m. Monday through
                                                           Friday on all school
                                                           days
                                                           Parking is
                                                           prohibited between
Chicago Ave.        From Railroad Ave.  East               the hours of 2:00
                    to Baring Ave.                         a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
                                                           Monday through
                                                           Friday
                                                           Parking is limited,
                    Between Railroad                       between the hours of
Chicago Ave.        Ave. and Baring     Both the north and 6:00 a.m. and 6:00
                    Ave.                south side         p.m. Monday through
                                                           Saturday, to two
                                                           consecutive hours
                                                           Parking is
                                                           prohibited between
Columbus Dr.        Between Homerlee    South side         the hours of 7:00
                    Ave. and Wegg Ave.                     a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
                                                           except on Saturday
                                                           and Sunday
                                                           Parking is
                                                           prohibited between
Indianapolis Blvd.  From 145th St. to   South              the hours of 2:00
                    148th St.                              a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
                                                           Monday through
                                                           Friday
                                                           Parking is limited
                                                           between the hours of
                    Between 145th St.   Both the east and  6:00 a.m. and 6:00
Indianapolis Blvd.  and 148th St.       west sides         p.m. on Monday
                                                           through Saturday to
                                                           two consecutive
                                                           hours
                                                           Parking is
                    3600 and 3700                          prohibited in the of
Main St.            blocks                                 between the hours of
                                                           9:00 p.m. and 6:00
                                                           a.m.
                                                           Certain areas in the
                                                           have been designated
                                                           for parking and
                                                           parking is
                                                           restricted to those
Main St. Mall                                              areas only and for a
                                                           time period no
                                                           longer than one
                                                           hour. There will be
                                                           no parking between
                                                           the hours of 9:00
                                                           p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
                                                           No parking zone
Parrish Ave.        4200 block and the  East side          between the hours of
                    4300 block                             10:00 p.m. and 6:00
                                                           a.m.
 
      (2)   Specific restrictions.
         (a)   Residential parking in the 4000 block of Alder St., on the west
side only, from the alley to 140th St.; and
         (b)   Parking is prohibited in the West Calumet Complex on the streets
of 150th St. from Gladiola St. to Aster Ave., 151st from Gladiola St. to Aster
Ave., Aster Ave., Gladiola St., Larkspur St., Jonquil St. and Magnolia St. from
12:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 72.104)
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
72.999 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Violation of division (A)(2)(a) above shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $100 and costs.
      (3)   Violation of division (A)(2)(b) above shall be punished by a fine
exceeding $100 and court costs. Vehicles will be towed at owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 72.999)
(Ord. 3062, passed - -1974; Ord. 3145, passed - -1977; Ord. 3148, passed - -
1977; Ord. 3152, passed - -1977; Ord. 3212, passed - -1979; Ord. 3238, passed -
-1979; Ord. 3243, passed - -1979; Ord. 3250, passed - -1980; Ord. 3252, passed
- -1980; Ord. 3268, passed - -1981; Ord. 3270, passed - -1981; Ord. 3284,
passed - -1981; Ord. 3369, passed - -1984; Ord. 3386, passed - -1984; Ord.
3398, passed - -1985; Ord. 3406, passed - -1985; Ord. 3407, passed - -1985;
Ord. 3424, passed - -1986; Ord. 3439, passed - -1986; Ord. 3440, passed - -
1986; Ord. 3451, passed - -1987; Ord. 3452, passed - -1987; Ord. 3457, passed -
-1987; Ord. 3481, passed - -1988; Ord. 3505, passed - -1989; Ord. 3507, passed
- -1989; Ord. 3510, passed - -1989; Ord. 3522, passed - -1990; Ord. 3526,
passed - -1990; Ord. 3555, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-92-0008, passed - -1992; Ord.
3558, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-93-0004, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0005, passed -
-1993; Ord. 0-93-0020, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0024, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-
94-0001, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-94-0018, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-98-0003, passed
- -1997; Ord. 0-98-0004, passed - -1998; Ord. 0-99-0019, passed 10-25-1999;
Ord. 0-00-0001, passed 2-18-2000; Ord. 0-02-0027, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 0-02-
0029, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 0-03-0027, passed - -2003; Ord. 0-05-0024, passed
8-8-2005; Ord. 0-06-0013, passed 3-27-2006; Ord. 0-07-0014, passed 8-27-2007)
SCHEDULE II. FIFTEEN-MINUTE PARKING.
   (A)   Fifteen-minute parking locations.
      (1)   Parking is restricted in the 700 block of Exchange Ave. on the
north side from its intersection with Indianapolis Blvd. to the public alley
east thereof, and on the south side of Exchange Ave. from its intersection with
Indianapolis Blvd. east to the private parking lot adjacent to the First
National Bank.
      (2)   Fifteen-minute parking shall be established on the north side of
the 800 block of Chicago Ave. between Indianapolis Blvd. and Magoun Ave.
      (3)   Fifteen-minute parking is established on the east and west sides of
the 4600 block of Magoun Ave. between Chicago Ave. on the south and the B&O CT
Railroad Tracks on the north.
      (4)   Fifteen-minute parking is established in front of 4708 Indianapolis
Blvd. This division is in full force and effect between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m. daily except Sunday.
      (5)   Fifteen-minute parking is established on the southeast corner of
150th and Wegg Ave. south to the alley, and in front of 1219 W. 150th St.
(Prior Code, § 72.096)
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
72.999 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Violation of division (A)(4) above shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed $50.
      (3)   Violation of division (A)(5) above shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed $50.
(Prior Code, § 72.999)
(Ord. 3062, passed - -1974; Ord. 3145, passed - -1977; Ord. 3148, passed - -
1977; Ord. 3152, passed - -1977; Ord. 3212, passed - -1979; Ord. 3238, passed -
-1979; Ord. 3243, passed - -1979; Ord. 3250, passed - -1980; Ord. 3252, passed
- -1980; Ord. 3268, passed - -1981; Ord. 3270, passed - -1981; Ord. 3284,
passed - -1981; Ord. 3369, passed - -1984; Ord. 3386, passed - -1984; Ord.
3398, passed - -1985; Ord. 3406, passed - -1985; Ord. 3407, passed - -1985;
Ord. 3424, passed - -1986; Ord. 3439, passed - -1986; Ord. 3440, passed - -
1986; Ord. 3451, passed - -1987; Ord. 3452, passed - -1987; Ord. 3457, passed -
-1987; Ord. 3481, passed - -1988; Ord. 3505, passed - -1989; Ord. 3507, passed
- -1989; Ord. 3510, passed - -1989; Ord. 3522, passed - -1990; Ord. 3526,
passed - -1990; Ord. 3555, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-92-0008, passed - -1992; Ord.
3558, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-93-0004, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0005, passed -
-1993; Ord. 0-93-0020, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0024, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-
94-0001, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-94-0018, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-98-0003, passed
- -1997; Ord. 0-98-0004, passed - -1998; Ord. 0-99-0019, passed 10-25-1999;
Ord. 0-00-0001, passed 2-18-2000; Ord. 0-02-0027, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 0-02-
0029, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 0-03-0027, passed - -2003; Ord. 0-05-0024, passed
8-8-2005; Ord. 0-06-0013, passed 3-27-2006; Ord. 0-07-0014, passed 8-27-2007)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-HOUR PARKING.
   The following locations are designated as one-hour parking:
   (A)   The west side of Fir St. in the 136th block between Broadway St. and
the alley immediately north of Broadway St.;
   (B)   North side of Riga Pl.;
   (C)   144th St. from Railroad Ave. to Tod Ave. on both sides of the street;
   (D)   Tod Ave. from 144th St. to Johnson St. on both sides of the street;
   (E)   Parking in the 5600 Block of Wegg Ave., both sides of the street,
between Carroll St. and Shell St. are restricted to one-hour parking. Parking
for residents is unrestricted;
   (F)   Alder St. from 139th St., on both sides east and west, and from 140th
St. to the alley south one hour parking on both sides east and west, between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. daily except Sunday. Resident parking is
not prohibited, provided residents have a resident sticker;
   (G)   141st (cul-de-sac) between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. daily
except Sunday. Resident parking is not prohibited, provided residents have a
resident sticker; and
   (H)   The east side of Reading Ave. from 150th St. 85 feet north to the
alley.
(Prior Code, § 72.097) (Ord. 3145, passed - -1977; Ord. 3148, passed - -1977;
Ord. 3449, passed - -1987; Ord. 3552, passed - -1992; Ord. 19-0012, passed 7-8-
2019) Penalty, see §
72.999
SCHEDULE IV. TWO-HOUR PARKING.
 
Street       Location                 Side           Times
141st St.    Between Deal St. and     Both sides
             Grace St.
             The 4000 block from 4030                Between the hours of 8:00
Deodar St.   St. to the corner of     Southwest side a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday
             Columbus Dr. and Deodar                 through Friday.
             St.
                                                     Between 8:00 a.m. to 4:00
E. 141st St. The 2300 block           South side     p.m. Monday through
                                                     Friday.
Grand Blvd.  The 139th block          Both sides
Hemlock St.  The 139th block          Both sides
 
(Prior Code, § 72.098) (Ord. 3119, passed - -1976; Ord. 3164, passed - -1977;
Ord. 3469, passed - -1988; Ord. 12-0021, passed 6-26-2012) Penalty, see §
72.999
SCHEDULE V. ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Locations. Angle parking is permittedin the following locations:
      (1)   On the west side of Fir St. in the 136th block between Broadway St.
and the alley immediately north of Broadway St.;
      (2)   On the west side of Fir St. in the 3700 block between Broadway St.
and the alley immediately south of Broadway St.;
      (3)   On the east side of Magoun Ave. from 144th St. south to the alley
immediately south of 144th St.;
      (4)   There shall not be any angle parking on Grand Blvd. between
Michigan Ave. and Columbus Dr.; and
      (5)   Both sides of the 4000 block of Fir St. between Columbus Dr. and
the alley immediately north of Columbus Dr.
(Prior Code, § 72.099)
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
72.999 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Violation of division (A)(4) above shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed $250.
(Prior Code, § 72.999)
(Ord. 3062, passed - -1974; Ord. 3145, passed - -1977; Ord. 3148, passed - -
1977; Ord. 3152, passed - -1977; Ord. 3212, passed - -1979; Ord. 3238, passed -
-1979; Ord. 3243, passed - -1979; Ord. 3250, passed - -1980; Ord. 3252, passed
- -1980; Ord. 3268, passed - -1981; Ord. 3270, passed - -1981; Ord. 3284,
passed - -1981; Ord. 3369, passed - -1984; Ord. 3386, passed - -1984; Ord.
3398, passed - -1985; Ord. 3406, passed - -1985; Ord. 3407, passed - -1985;
Ord. 3424, passed - -1986; Ord. 3439, passed - -1986; Ord. 3440, passed - -
1986; Ord. 3451, passed - -1987; Ord. 3452, passed - -1987; Ord. 3457, passed -
-1987; Ord. 3481, passed - -1988; Ord. 3505, passed - -1989; Ord. 3507, passed
- -1989; Ord. 3510, passed - -1989; Ord. 3522, passed - -1990; Ord. 3526,
passed - -1990; Ord. 3555, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-92-0008, passed - -1992; Ord.
3558, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-93-0004, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0005, passed -
-1993; Ord. 0-93-0020, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0024, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-
94-0001, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-94-0018, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-98-0003, passed
- -1997; Ord. 0-98-0004, passed - -1998; Ord. 0-99-0019, passed 10-25-1999;
Ord. 0-00-0001, passed 2-18-2000; Ord. 0-02-0027, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 0-02-
0029, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 0-03-0027, passed - -2003; Ord. 0-05-0024, passed
8-8-2005; Ord. 0-06-0013, passed 3-27-2006; Ord. 0-07-0014, passed 8-27-2007)
SCHEDULE VI. TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   Restrictions.
      (1)   There will be no truck parking on the northwesterly side of Riley
Rd. between Dickey Rd. and Cline Ave. This section is in full force and effect
seven days a week at all hours of the day.
      (2)   There will be no truck parking on the south side only of Garfield
St..
      (3)   Parking of certain trucks and commercial vehicles restricted.
         (a)   Overnight parking. It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator,
or driver of commercial vehicle or truck if such vehicle has more than two
axles, or for the person in charge thereof, to park such vehicle or to permit
it to be parked or to stand upon any street or alley in the city between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m, for a period of time longer than one hour.
         (b)   Residence districts. It shall be unlawful for the owner,
operator, or driver of any truck with more than two axles (including the truck-
tractor of a semi tractor-trailer), or for the person in charge thereof, to
park such vehicle on or to permit it to be parked or to stand upon any street
or alley in a residential district for a period of time longer than one hour,
except household or other moving or delivery trucks while actually loading or
unloading property for adjacent residences or service trucks of persons while
engaged in service calls at adjacent residences.
         (c)   Violation. Violation of this truck parking restriction is an
ordinance violation and punished under §
72.999.
(Prior Code, § 72.100)
   (B)   Penalty. 
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
72.999 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Violation of division (A)(2) above shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed $50.
(Prior Code, § 72.999)
(Ord. 3062, passed - -1974; Ord. 3145, passed - -1977; Ord. 3148, passed - -
1977; Ord. 3152, passed - -1977; Ord. 3212, passed - -1979; Ord. 3238, passed -
-1979; Ord. 3243, passed - -1979; Ord. 3250, passed - -1980; Ord. 3252, passed
- -1980; Ord. 3268, passed - -1981; Ord. 3270, passed - -1981; Ord. 3284,
passed - -1981; Ord. 3369, passed - -1984; Ord. 3386, passed - -1984; Ord.
3398, passed - -1985; Ord. 3406, passed - -1985; Ord. 3407, passed - -1985;
Ord. 3424, passed - -1986; Ord. 3439, passed - -1986; Ord. 3440, passed - -
1986; Ord. 3451, passed - -1987; Ord. 3452, passed - -1987; Ord. 3457, passed -
-1987; Ord. 3481, passed - -1988; Ord. 3505, passed - -1989; Ord. 3507, passed
- -1989; Ord. 3510, passed - -1989; Ord. 3515, passed - -1990; Ord. 3522,
passed - -1990; Ord. 3526, passed - -1990; Ord. 3555, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-
92-0008, passed - -1992; Ord. 3558, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-93-0004, passed - -
1993; Ord. 0-93-0005, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0020, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-
93-0024, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-94-0001, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-94-0018, passed
- -1994; Ord. 0-98-0003, passed - -1997; Ord. 0-98-0004, passed - -1998; Ord.
0-99-0019, passed 10-25-1999; Ord. 0-00-0001, passed 2-18-2000; Ord. 0-02-0027,
passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 0-02-0029, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 0-03-0027, passed - -
2003; Ord. 0-05-0024, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 0-06-0013, passed 3-27-2006; Ord.
0-07-0014, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 17-0004, passed 4-10-2017)
SCHEDULE VII. RESIDENTIAL AND NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   The following streets are restricted to resident or no parking.
      (1)   Schedule of restricted parking.
Street Location Side Restriction
Street             Location            Side            Restriction
138th Pl.          The 1000 east block North and south Resident parking
                                       side            only
139th St.          From Alexander Ave. North side      Resident parking
                   to McCook Ave.                      only
140th St.          The 500 and 600     South side      Resident parking
                   blocks                              only
                   From Reading Ave.                   Resident parking
149th St.          east approximately  South side      only
                   70 feet
149th St.          From Walsh Ave. to  North side      Resident parking
                   Wegg Ave.                           only
149th St.          From Walsh Ave.     South side      Resident parking
                   east to the alley                   only
Baring Ave.        4100 Block          Both sides      Resident parking
                                                       only
                   From 5629 Baring
                   Ave. to 5637 Baring                 Resident parking
Baring Ave.        Ave. and 5630       Both sides      only
                   Baring Ave. to 5638
                   Baring Ave.
                   From E. Guadalupe                   Resident parking
Cardinal Dr.       Cir. and W.         South side only only
                   Guadalupe Cir.
                                                       No parking from 7:00
Columbus Dr.       From Indianapolis   North side      a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
                   Blvd. to Walsh Ave.                 except Saturday and
                                                       Sunday
Columbus Dr.       From Indianapolis   South side      Resident parking
                   Blvd. to Walsh Ave.                 only
                   Between Northcote                   One hour parking
Columbus Dr.       Ave. and Homerlee   Both sides      between 7:00 a.m.
                   Ave.                                and 4:00 p.m. Monday
                                                       through Friday
E. 139th St.       The 600 block       North side      Resident parking
                                                       only
                   The 4100 block from                 Resident parking
Fir St.            the south alley to  Both sides      only
                   Columbus Dr.
                   The 37th Block of                   Resident parking
Grand Blvd.        between Broadway                    only
                   and 138th St.
Grasselli Ave.     The 4800 and 4900   East side       Resident parking
                   blocks                              only
Ivy St.            The 37th Block      Both sides      Resident parking
                                                       only
                   From 4914 Kennedy                   Resident parking
Kennedy Ave.       Ave. to 4922        East side       only
                   Kennedy Ave.
Magoun Ave.        4100 Block          Both sides      Resident parking
                                                       only
Magoun Ave.        The 4800 block      West side       Resident parking
                                                       only
                                                       One-hour parking
                                                       between the hours of
                   In the blocks                       7:00 a.m. and 4:00
Northcote Ave. and between Columbus    Both sides      p.m. Monday through
Homerlee Ave.      Dr. and 142nd St.                   Friday. Parking for
                                                       residents of those
                                                       two blocks is
                                                       unrestricted
Northcote Ave.     4100 block          Both sides      Resident parking
                                                       only
Olcott Ave.        4800 block          Both sides      Resident parking
                                                       only
Parrish Ave.       3700 block                          Resident parking
                                                       only
Parrish Ave.       From 3801 to and    East side       Resident parking
                   including 3847      Both sides      only
Parrish Ave.       In the 142nd and    West side
                   143rd block
Private St.        From Chicago Ave.   West side       Parking is
                   to the south alley                  prohibited
Private St.                            East side       Resident parking
                                                       only
Reading Ave.       From 4908 Reading   West side       Resident parking
                   Ave. to 150th St.                   only
Vernon Ave.        From Private St. to North and south Resident parking
                   McCook Ave.         side            only
Walsh Ave.         4100 Block          Both sides      Resident parking
                                                       only
Wegg Ave.          4100 Block          Both sides      Resident parking
                                                       only
 
      (2)   Specific parking restrictions. Parking is restricted in the
following locations:
         (a)   Resident parking only on 142nd and 143rd block of Elm St.;
however, motor vehicles making deliveries are free to deliver or service
personnel and visitors to residence; and
         (b)   Residential parking only on the east side and west side of the
4700 block of Ivy St.
(Prior Code, § 72.101)
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this schedule for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
72.999 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Violation of division (A)(2)(a) above shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $100 and costs.
      (3)   Violation of division (A)(2)(b) above shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $100 and costs.
(Prior Code, § 72.999)
(Ord. 3062, passed - -1974; Ord. 3145, passed - -1977; Ord. 3148, passed - -
1977; Ord. 3152, passed - -1977; Ord. 3212, passed - -1979; Ord. 3238, passed -
-1979; Ord. 3243, passed - -1979; Ord. 3250, passed - -1980; Ord. 3252, passed
- -1980; Ord. 3268, passed - -1981; Ord. 3270, passed - -1981; Ord. 3284,
passed - -1981; Ord. 3369, passed - -1984; Ord. 3386, passed - -1984; Ord.
3398, passed - -1985; Ord. 3406, passed - -1985; Ord. 3407, passed - -1985;
Ord. 3424, passed - -1986; Ord. 3439, passed - -1986; Ord. 3440, passed - -
1986; Ord. 3451, passed - -1987; Ord. 3452, passed - -1987; Ord. 3457, passed -
-1987; Ord. 3481, passed - -1988; Ord. 3505, passed - -1989; Ord. 3507, passed
- -1989; Ord. 3510, passed - -1989; Ord. 3514, passed - -1990; Ord. 3522,
passed - -1990; Ord. 3526, passed - -1990; Ord. 3555, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-
92-0008, passed - -1992; Ord. 3558, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-93-0004, passed - -
1993; Ord. 0-93-0005, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0020, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-
93-0024, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-94-0001, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-94-0018, passed
- -1994; Ord. 0-98-0003, passed - -1997; Ord. 0-98-0004, passed - -1998; Ord.
0-99-0019, passed 10-25-1999; Ord. 0-00-0001, passed 2-18-2000; Ord. 0-02-0027,
passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 0-02-0029, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 0-03-0027, passed - -
2003; Ord. 0-05-0024, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 0-06-0013, passed 3-27-2006; Ord.
0-07-0014, passed 8-27-2007; Ord. 10-0015, passed 10-12-2010; Ord. 11-0018,
passed 9-12-2011; Ord. 15-0012, passed 8-24-2015; Ord. 16-0006, passed 7-25-
2016; Ord. 17-0002, passed 3-15-2017; Ord. 18-0021, passed 11-26-2018; Ord. 21-
0048, passed 7-12-2021;)
SCHEDULE VIII. HANDICAPPED PERSONS PARKING SPACES.
   A parking space adjacent to 814 W. Chicago Ave. is reserved for the use of
physically handicapped persons.
(Prior Code, § 72.102) (Ord. 3265, passed - -1981) Penalty, see §
72.999
SCHEDULE IX. NO PARKING ALLOWED.
   (A)   Parking is not allowed in the following described locations.
      (1)   Schedule of restricted parking.
Street Location Side
Street        Location                             Side
139th St.     East of the alley, between Hemlock   North and south side
              St. and Grand Blvd.
139th St.     From Pulaski St. to Main St.         North side
141st St.     The 2400 block, between Alder St.    South side only
              and Butternut St.
145th St.     From Tod Ave. to Railroad Ave.       South side
151st St.     From Indianapolis Blvd. west to its  Both sides
              intersection with Magoun Ave.
              From Chicago Ave. north to the alley
Baring Ave.   located between Lewis Pl. and        Both the east and west sides
              Chicago Ave.
Block Ave.    From Michigan Ave. to Inland Steel   Both sides
              Plant #1 Gate
Elm St.       From Columbus Dr. south to the alley West side
              210 feet of the 4300 block, adjacent
Elm St.       to the St. Catherine Hospital        West side
              Emergency Room
Elm St.       Between Columbus Dr. and 75 feet     East side
              south of Indiana St.
Grand Blvd.   From Michigan Ave. south to the      East side
              alley
Parrish Ave.  From Columbus Dr. to 140th St. (in   East side
              front of Washington High School)
Parrish Ave.  Between Chicago Ave. and Gary Rd.    East side
Railroad Ave. From 151st St. to 152nd St.
Riga Pl.                                           South side
Watling St.   From Callahan St. to Block Ave.
 
      (2)   Specific parking restrictions.
         (a)   Residential parking only on the 4800 block of Olcott Ave. on
both sides of the street; and
         (b)   Resident parking only on the east side of Private St. and
parking is prohibited on the west side of Private St. from Chicago Ave. to the
south alley.
(Prior Code, § 72.103)
   (B)   No parking signs. No parking on the north side of 139th St. from
Pulaski St. to Main St.
(Prior Code, § 72.095)
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Violation of division (A)(2)(a) above shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding $50 and costs. Vehicles will be towed at owner’s expense.
      (2)   Violation of (A)(2)(b) shall be punished by a fine not exceeding
$50 and costs. Vehicles will be towed at owners expense.
(Prior Code, § 72.999)
(Ord. 3062, passed - -1974; Ord. 3113, passed - -1976; Ord. 3145, passed - -
1977; Ord. 3148, passed - -1977; Ord. 3152, passed - -1977; Ord. 3212, passed -
-1979; Ord. 3238, passed - -1979; Ord. 3243, passed - -1979; Ord. 3250, passed
- -1980; Ord. 3252, passed - -1980; Ord. 3268, passed - -1981; Ord. 3270,
passed - -1981; Ord. 3284, passed - -1981; Ord. 3369, passed - -1984; Ord.
3386, passed - -1984; Ord. 3398, passed - -1985; Ord. 3406, passed - -1985;
Ord. 3407, passed - -1985; Ord. 3424, passed - -1986; Ord. 3439, passed - -
1986; Ord. 3440, passed - -1986; Ord. 3451, passed - -1987; Ord. 3452, passed -
-1987; Ord. 3457, passed - -1987; Ord. 3481, passed - -1988; Ord. 3505, passed
- -1989; Ord. 3507, passed - -1989; Ord. 3510, passed - -1989; Ord. 3522,
passed - -1990; Ord. 3526, passed - -1990; Ord. 3555, passed - -1992; Ord.
3558, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-92-0008, passed - -1992; Ord. 0-93-0004, passed -
-1993; Ord. 0-93-0005, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-93-0020, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-
93-0024, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-94-0001, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-94-0018, passed
- -1994; Ord. 0-98-0003, passed - -1997; Ord. 0-98-0004, passed - -1998; Ord.
0-99-0019, passed 10-25-1999; Ord. 0-00-0001, passed 2-18-2000; Ord. 0-02-0027,
passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 0-02-0029, passed 9-9-2002; Ord. 0-03-0027, passed - -
2003; Ord. 0-05-0024, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 0-06-0013, passed 3-27-2006; Ord.
0-07-0014, passed 8-27-2007 Ord. 18-0002, passed 2-12-2018; Ord. 21-0072,
passed 9-22-2021)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   UNIFORM ALARM SYSTEM
      
95.   AIR POLLUTION
      
96.   PARKS AND HARBORS
      
97.   STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
98.   SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
      
99.   TREES, PLANTS, AND SHRUBS
      
100.   COLLECTIONS BOXES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Chapter enforcement
   
90.003   Interference with officials prohibited
   
90.004   Right of entry to inspect
   
90.005   Exemptions from provisions of chapter
   
90.006   Females in heat
   
90.007   Wild animals
   
90.008   Injuring property of others
   
90.009   Keeping hogs, poultry, or pigeons
   
90.010   Manure
   
90.011   Animal sales; restrictions
Impoundment
   
90.025   Impoundment; period of confinement; disposal
   
90.026   Alternative penalties for certain dogs
   
90.027   Notification of owner
   
90.028   Impoundment of animals other than dogs and cats
   
90.029   Redemption of impounded animals
   
90.030   Records
Dogs, Generally
   
90.045   Restraint generally
   
90.046   Dogs in parks prohibited
   
90.047   Care of dogs kept outside
   
90.048   Nuisances declared
Dog Licensing
   
90.060   Required
   
90.061   Fees
   
90.062   Term; application
   
90.063   Tags
   
90.064   Use of tags by other than licensee
   
90.065   Duplicate tags
Dogs; Rabies
   
90.080   Vaccination required
   
90.081   Animal bites; report; quarantine
   
90.082   Veterinarian’s report of suspected rabies cases
   
90.083   Positive rabies diagnosis; citywide quarantine
   
90.084   Failure or refusal to surrender animal for quarantine prohibited
   
90.085   Permission from Board of Health for disposition of rabid animal
required
   
90.086   Disposition of carcass of animal exposed to rabies
   
90.087   Procedure upon death of quarantined animal
Pit Bull Dogs
   
90.100   Purpose
90.101 Definition of pit bull
   
90.102   Liability insurance required to be maintained by owners of pit bulls
   
90.103   Confinement of pit bulls
   
90.104   Registration of pit bulls
   
90.105   Enforcement
Pet Solid Waste Disposal
   
90.120   Definitions
   
90.121   Requirement for disposal
   
90.122   Exemptions
   
90.123   Enforcement
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by action of the city for the
purpose of impounding and caring for all animals found running at large in
violation of this chapter.
   ANIMAL WARDEN. The person or persons employed by the City Health Department
as its enforcement officer.
   AT LARGE. Any animal off the property of his or her owner and not under
control of a competent person.
   DOG. Both male and female.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. Bitten by or exposed to any animal known to have been
infected with rabies.
   KENNEL. Any person engaged in the commercial business of breeding, buying,
selling, or boarding animals or who owns, harbors, or keeps three or more dogs
on his or her premises.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, or harboring an animal or animals.
   RESTRAINT. Controlled by a leash, at heel beside a competent person and
obedient to that person’s commands, on or within the property limits of the
owner or keeper.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any bitch which has been operated upon to prevent conception.
(Prior Code, § 90.001) (Ord. 3199, passed - -1978)
§ 90.002 CHAPTER ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Health and Police
Departments.
(Prior Code, § 90.002)
§ 90.003 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall interfere with, hinder, or molest any member of the Police
Department or the Board of Health in the performance of his or her duty or seek
to release any animal in the custody of the Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 90.003) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 RIGHT OF ENTRY TO INSPECT.
   For the purpose of discharging the duties imposed by this chapter and to
enforce all of its provisions, any agent with the Board of Health or any police
officer is empowered to enter upon any premises upon which a dog is kept or
harbored and to demand the exhibition by the owner of the dog, examine the dog
and to take possession of the animal when, in his or her opinion, it required
humane treatment or to issue a citation to the owner for violating the terms
and provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.004) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.005 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Hospitals, clinics, and other premises operated by licensed
veterinarians for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter, except where the duties are expressly stated.
   (B)   The licensing and vaccination requirements of this chapter shall not
apply to any dog belonging to a nonresident of the city and kept within the
city for not longer than 30 days; provided, that all dogs shall at all times
while in the city be kept within a building, enclosure, or vehicle or under
restraint by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 90.005)
§ 90.006 FEMALES IN HEAT.
   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be kept confined in a building or
secure enclosure or in a veterinary hospital or boarding kennel in a manner
that the female dog or cat cannot come in contact with another animal, except
for breeding purposes.
(Prior Code, § 90.006) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.007 WILD ANIMALS.
   No wild animal may be kept within the city limits; provided, that wild
animals may be kept for exhibition purposes by circuses, zoos, and educational
institutions in accordance with regulations as shall be established by the
Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 90.007) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.008 INJURING PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   It is unlawful for any person having charge, care, and custody of any dog or
animal to permit or suffer the same to escape or go upon any private lands or
premises or to browse upon, trample upon, or otherwise mangle, eat, injure,
break, or destroy any lawn, parkway, flower bed, plant, tree, flower,
shrubbery, or other lawn or house decoration of another without permission of
the owner of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 90.008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.009 KEEPING HOGS, POULTRY, OR PIGEONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Board of Health deems the keeping of any hogs, poultry,
or pigeons or the maintenance of any hog pen within the city injurious to the
health thereof or noisome or offensive to the inhabitants in the vicinity of
the same, it shall cause the owner of the hogs, poultry, or pigeons or the
person who maintains any hog pen or poultry or pigeon coop to be notified to
remove the same. This notice shall be in writing and shall contain a
description of the premises whereon the hogs, poultry, or pigeons are kept or
hog pen or poultry or pigeon coop maintained.
   (B)   The notice shall be served by a police officer or Health Inspector by
leaving a copy thereof with the person who owns the hogs, poultry, or pigeons
or maintains the pen or coop.
   (C)   In case the owner fails to abate or remove the same within ten days
after the receipt of the notice, he or she shall be deemed guilty of violating
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.009) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.010 MANURE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to pile or dump any manure in or upon any street or
alley. After stables, barns, or other shelters where animals are kept are
cleaned, the floor shall be liberally sprinkled with slaked lime or shall be
sprinkled with a disinfectant prescribed by the City Health Officer, such as a
10% solution of crude carbolic acid or a 5% solution of formaldehyde or a 10%
solution of copperas.
   (B)   All stables or barns or other shelters wherein animals are kept shall
be cleaned daily in the months of April, May, June, July, and August. All
manure shall be kept in dark, watertight, fly-tight bins, pits, or boxes, which
shall be emptied and the manure hauled away when full or when ordered in
writing by the City Health Officer or Supervisor of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 90.010) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.011 ANIMAL SALES; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CARE FACILITY. An animal control center or animal shelter,
maintained by or under contract with any state, county, or municipality, whose
mission and practice is, in whole, or significant part, the rescue and
placement of animals in permanent homes or rescue organizations.
      ANIMAL RESCUE ORGANIZATION. Any not-for-profit organization which has
tax-exempt status under § 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code,
being U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), whose mission and practice is, in whole or in
significant part, the rescue and placement of animals in permanent homes. This
term does not include any entity, which is, or is housed on the premises of, a
breeder or broker, obtains dogs from a breeder or broker in exchange for
payment or compensation, or resells dogs obtained from a breeder or broker and
provides payment or compensation to such breeder or broker.
      CAT. A member of the species of domestic cat, Felis catus.
      DOG. A member of the species of domestic dog, Canis familiaris.
      OFFER FOR SALE. To sell, offer for sale or adoption, advertise for the
sale of, barter, auction, give away, or otherwise dispose of a dog or cat.
      PET SHOP. A retail establishment where dogs, rabbits, and cats are sold,
exchanged, bartered, or offered for sale as pet animals to the general public
at retail. Such definition shall not include an animal care facility or animal
rescue organization, as defined.
   (B)   Restrictions on the sale of animals. No pet store shall sell, deliver,
offer for sale, barter, auction, give away, or otherwise transfer or dispose of
cats, rabbits, or dogs. Nothing in this section shall prohibit pet stores from
collaborating with animal care facilities or animal rescue organizations to
offer space for such entities to showcase adoptable dogs, rabbits, and cats.
(Ord. 22-0021, passed 4-27-2022)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.025 IMPOUNDMENT; PERIOD OF CONFINEMENT; DISPOSAL.
   Unlicensed dogs or dogs found running at large shall be taken up by the
animal warden and impounded in the shelter designated as the city animal
shelter and there confined in a humane manner for a period of not less than
three days, and may thereafter be disposed of in a humane manner if not claimed
by their owners.
(Prior Code, § 90.025)
§ 90.026 ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES FOR CERTAIN DOGS.
   (A)   When dogs are found running at large and their ownership is known to
the Police Department or animal warden, the dogs need not be impounded, and the
Police Department or the Health Department, may, at their discretion, after one
warning has been given to the owner, issue a “dog violation ticket” notifying
the owner of the dog or dogs that there is a violation of this chapter, giving
the date and time and location and that the penalty for the violation is in an
amount as set by the city from time to time and thereafter the owner or owners
may elect to pay this penalty or to appear in the City Court, at which time
they will be given a trial.
   (B)   (1)   The penalty may be paid into the City Clerk’s office by mail or
by bringing the ticket along with the sum of an amount as set by the city from
time to time to the City Clerk.
      (2)   Failure to pay the penalty within five days from the issuance of a
dog violation ticket, will constitute a violation of this chapter and the
individual shall be prosecuted as for violation of this chapter and as for any
other city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 90.026)
§ 90.027 NOTIFICATION OF OWNER.
   Immediately upon impounding dogs or other animals, the Health Department
shall make every possible effort to notify the owners of the dogs or other
animals so impounded and inform the owners of the conditions whereby they may
regain custody of the animals.
(Prior Code, § 90.027)
§ 90.028 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS AND CATS.
   Animals other than dogs and cats shall be impounded when found running at
large within the city limits and disposed of in accordance with law.
(Prior Code, § 90.028)
§ 90.029 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner shall be entitled to resume possession of any impounded dog,
except as otherwise provided, upon compliance with §§
90.045 through
90.048,
90.060 through
90.065 and
90.080 through
90.082 and the payment of impoundment fees.
   (B)   Any other animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter may be
reclaimed by the owner upon the payment of impoundment fees set forth herein.
   (C)   Any animal impounded under the provisions of this chapter and not
reclaimed by its owner within three days may be humanely destroyed by the
Health Department or placed in the custody of some person deemed to be a
responsible and suitable owner who will agree to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and other regulations as shall be fixed by the City Health
Department.
   (D)   Any animal found at large shall be impounded by the Police Department
and may not be redeemed by owners, unless the redemption be authorized by the
Board of Health; provided, that if any dog of dangerous, fierce, or vicious
propensities so found at large cannot be safely taken up and impounded, the dog
may be slain.
   (E)   Any dog, cat, or other animal impounded for being a public nuisance
may not be redeemed unless the redemption is authorized by any court having
jurisdiction.
   (F)   When, in the judgment of the Board of Health, an animal should be
destroyed for humane reasons, the animal may not be redeemed.
(Prior Code, § 90.029)
§ 90.030 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of the animal warden to keep or cause to be kept,
accurate and detailed records of the impoundment and disposition of all animals
coming into his or her custody.
(Prior Code, § 90.030)
DOGS, GENERALLY
§ 90.045 RESTRAINT GENERALLY.
   The owner shall keep his or her dog under restraint at all times and shall
not permit the dog to be at large, off the premises or property of the owner,
unless under the control of a competent person. The owner shall confine within
a building or secure enclosure every dog of fierce, dangerous, or vicious
propensities and not take a dog out of the building or secure enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 90.045) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.046 DOGS IN PARKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bring or lead any dog in city parks.
(Prior Code, § 90.046) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.047 CARE OF DOGS KEPT OUTSIDE.
   Dogs which are kept outside must be kept within a fenced enclosure of
sufficient structure to keep the dog confined therein at all times or, if no
fenced enclosure is provided, the dog shall be tied on a rope or chain of
sufficient strength of not less than 12 feet in length. The dog shall be
provided with a sturdy doghouse to protect the dog from weather, with
sufficient bedding and ample supply of food and water every day. The premises
at all times shall be kept clean and in sanitary condition so that there shall
not be any offal, filth, or offensive smells to be collected or remain in or
about the premises to the danger or prejudice of others or the public.
(Prior Code, § 90.047) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.048 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   Any dog is declared to be a nuisance which:
   (A)   Shall cause serious annoyance or disturbance to the neighborhood or
any of the residents therein by its loud, frequent, habitual, or continued
barking, howling, or yelping; or
   (B)   Demonstrates aggressive or vicious propensities or temperament, bites,
or injures a person or other animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.048) (Ord. 0-95-0010, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
90.999
DOG LICENSING
§ 90.060 REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor a dog of any age within the city
limits unless the dog is licensed as herein provided.
   (B)   Application for the license shall be made to the City Controller and
shall state the name and address of the owner and the name, breed, color, age,
and sex of the dog.
   (C)   The license fee shall be paid at the time of making application, a
numbered receipt given to the applicant and a numbered metallic tag shall be
issued to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 90.060) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.061 FEES.
   (A)   The yearly license fee shall be an amount as set by the city from time
to time for a female and $1 for a male or spayed female.
   (B)   Every person engaged in the commercial business of buying, selling,
breeding, or boarding or who owns, harbors, or keeps three or more dogs in an
area which meets the zoning requirements shall pay an annual license fee in an
amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 90.061) (Ord. 3199, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.062 TERM; APPLICATION.
   All dog licenses and kennel licenses shall be issued for one year beginning
with January 1. Applications for licenses may be made prior to and for 30 days
after the start of the licensing year without penalty, but when application is
made after 30 days of the licensing year have elapsed, the applicant shall be
assessed a penalty of 50% of the license fee, which amount shall be added and
collected with the regular license fee.
(Prior Code, § 90.062) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.063 TAGS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a license, as provided in this chapter, there shall be
issued to the owner a numbered metallic tag, stamped with the number and the
year for which issued. The shape or design of the tag shall be changed from
year to year.
   (B)   Every owner is required to see that the tag is securely fastened to
the dog’s choke chain, collar, or harness, which must be worn by the dog at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 90.063) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.064 USE OF TAGS BY OTHER THAN LICENSEE.
   No person shall use for any dog a license receipt or license tag issued for
another dog.
(Prior Code, § 90.064) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.065 DUPLICATE TAGS.
   In the event that a metallic license tag issued for a dog shall be lost, the
owner may obtain a duplicate tag upon the payment of an amount as set by the
city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 90.065) Penalty, see §
90.999
DOGS; RABIES
§ 90.080 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any dog to keep, maintain, or harbor a dog
unless it shall have been vaccinated by a licensed veterinary surgeon with
anti-rabies vaccine within the current year. The dog shall have attached to his
or her collar a metal tag bearing the inscription: “Innoc.-Rabies” and the date
of inoculation.
(Prior Code, § 90.080) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.081 ANIMAL BITES; REPORT; QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Every animal which bites a person shall be promptly reported to the
Police Department and shall thereupon be securely quarantined at the direction
of the Board of Health for a period of ten days and shall not be released from
the quarantine except by written permission of the Board of Health. At the
discretion of the Board of Health, the quarantine may be, at the owner’s option
and expense, at the shelter designated as the city animal shelter, Hammond
Humane Society or in a veterinary hospital of his or her choice. In the case of
stray animals or in the cases of animals whose ownership is not known, the
quarantine shall be at the city animal shelter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department and the Health
Department to keep or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of all
bite cases reported to it and its investigation of the cases.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every physician or other practitioner to
report to the Board of Health and the Police Department the names and addresses
of persons treated for bites inflicted by animals, together with any other
information as will be helpful in rabies control.
(Prior Code, § 90.081) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.082 VETERINARIAN’S REPORT OF SUSPECTED RABIES CASES.
   It shall be the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the Board
of Health his or her diagnosis of any animal observed by him or her as a rabies
suspect.
(Prior Code, § 90.082)
§ 90.083 POSITIVE RABIES DIAGNOSIS; CITYWIDE QUARANTINE.
   (A)   (1)   When one or both reports of the State Department and the Board
of Health, as provided in this chapter, give a positive diagnosis of rabies,
the Board of Health shall recommend a city-wide quarantine for a period of 30
days.
      (2)   Upon the invoking of a quarantine, no animals shall be taken into
the streets or permitted to be in the streets during the period of quarantine.
   (B)   During a period of rabies quarantine as herein mentioned, every animal
bitten by an animal adjudged to be rabid shall be forthwith destroyed or, at
the owner’s option and expense, shall be treated for rabies infection by a
licensed veterinarian or held under 30 days quarantine by the owner in the same
manner as other animals are quarantined.
   (C)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of the quarantine, the period of quarantine may be extended
for an additional six months.
(Prior Code, § 90.083)
§ 90.084 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO SURRENDER ANIMAL FOR QUARANTINE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall fail or refuse to surrender any animal for quarantine or
destruction as required herein when demand is made therefor by the Board of
Health or the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 90.084) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.085 PERMISSION FROM BOARD OF HEALTH FOR DISPOSITION OF RABID ANIMAL
REQUIRED.
   No person shall kill or cause to be killed, any rabid animal, any animal
suspected of having been exposed to rabies or any animal biting a human, except
herein provided, nor remove the animal from the city limits, without written
permission from the Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 90.085) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.086 DISPOSITION OF CARCASS OF ANIMAL EXPOSED TO RABIES.
   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall upon demand be
surrendered to the Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 90.086) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.087 PROCEDURE UPON DEATH OF QUARANTINED ANIMAL.
   When an animal under quarantine has been diagnosed as being rabid and dies
while under observation, the Board of Health shall immediately send the head of
the animal to the State Health Department for pathological examination and
shall notify the proper public health officer of reports of human contacts and
the diagnosis made of the suspected animal.
(Prior Code, § 90.087) Penalty, see §
90.999
PIT BULL DOGS
§ 90.100 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to utilize the authority and powers of the city,
a home rule municipality, in order to secure for the citizens of this city, the
protection of their health, safety, and welfare. It is intended to be
applicable to dogs which are commonly referred to as pit bulls and which are
defined herein. This subchapter is designed to regulate these dogs and to
ensure responsible handling by their owners through registration, confinement,
and liability insurance. The unique history, nature, and characteristics of pit
bulls have been determined to require the special regulations and provisions
contained within this subchapter which the City Council finds reasonable and
necessary.
(Prior Code, § 90.100)
§ 90.101 DEFINITION OF PIT BULL.
   (A)   The term PIT BULL as used within this chapter shall refer to any dog
which exhibits those distinguishing characteristics which:
      (1)   Substantially conform to the standards established by the American
Kennel Club for American Staffordshire terriers or Staffordshire bull terriers;
or
      (2)   Substantially conform to the standards established by the United
Kennel Club for American pit bull terriers.
   (B)   The standards of the American Kennel Club and the United Kennel Club
referred to in division (A) above are attached to the ordinance codified in
this chapter as Exhibit A and shall remain on file with the City Animal Control
Department.
   (C)   The term PIT BULL shall include American pit bull terriers, American
Staffordshire terriers and all pit bull mixes where another breed of dog is
intermixed with a pit bull.
(Prior Code, § 90.101) (Ord. 0-02-0018, passed - -2002)
§ 90.102 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED TO BE MAINTAINED BY OWNERS OF PIT BULLS.
   In order to protect the public from the severe harm and injury which is
likely to result from a pit bull attack, every owner of a pit bull shall at all
times that he or she owns the dog, maintain in full force and effect a
liability insurance policy in an amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 90.102) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.103 CONFINEMENT OF PIT BULLS.
   (A)   Because of the pit bull’s inbred propensity to attack other animals,
and because of the danger posed to humans and animals alike by a pit bull when
running loose or while running together in a pack situation, pit bulls must at
all times be securely confined indoors, or confined in a securely and totally
enclosed or locked pen, with either a top or with sides six feet high.
   (B)   At any time that a pit bull is not confined as required in division
(A) above, the dog shall be muzzled in a manner as to prevent it from biting or
injuring any person or animal, and kept on a leash with the owner or custodian
in attendance.
   (C)   An exception to this section is provided for any pit bull in
attendance at, and participating in, any lawful dog show, contest, or
exhibition sponsored by a dog club, association, society, or similar
organization.
   (D)   An exception to this section is provided for any pit bull when the dog
is actually engaged in the sport of hunting in authorized areas and supervised
by a competent person.
(Prior Code, § 90.103) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.104 REGISTRATION OF PIT BULLS.
   (A)   In order to assure that owners of pit bulls are aware of the full
requirements of this subchapter, and to assure compliance therewith, every
owner of a pit bull shall register the dog with the City Controller’s office.
The registration shall include the following: name, address, and telephone
number of the dog’s owner, the address where the dog is harbored, if different
from the owner’s address; a complete identification of the dog including the
dog’s sex, color, and any other distinguishing physical characteristics; proof
of rabies vaccination; proof of the liability insurance required pursuant to
this subchapter, and a signed affidavit indicating the owner’s knowledge of,
and agreement to abide by, the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Newly acquired pit bulls shall be registered with the City
Controller’s office no later than 72 hours after acquisition.
(Prior Code, § 90.104) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.105 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of all law enforcement officers to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.105)
PET SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
§ 90.120 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words used in the plural number include the singular
number and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The
word shall is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      IMMEDIATE. The pet solid waste is removed at once, without delay.
      OWNER/KEEPER. Any person who shall possess, maintain, house, or harbor
any pet or otherwise have custody of any pet, whether or not the owner of the
pet.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, partnership, firm,
association, or political subdivision of this state subject to municipal
jurisdiction.
      PET. A domesticated animal (other than a disability assistance animal)
kept for amusement or companionship.
      PET SOLID WASTE. Waste matter expelled from the bowels of the pet;
excrement.
      PROPER DISPOSAL. Placement in a designated waste receptacle, or other
suitable container, and discarded in a refuse container which is regularly
emptied by the municipality or some other refuse collector; or disposal into a
system designed to convey domestic sewage for proper treatment and disposal.
(Prior Code, § 90.120) (Ord. 0-08-0014, passed - -2008)
§ 90.121 REQUIREMENT FOR DISPOSAL.
   All pet owners and keepers are required to immediately and properly dispose
of their pets solid waste deposited on any property, public or private, not
owned or possessed by that person.
(Prior Code, § 90.121) (Ord. 0-08-0014, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.122 EXEMPTIONS.
   Any owner or keeper who requires the use of a disability assistance animal
shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter while the animal is
being used for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 90.122) (Ord. 0-08-0014, passed - -2008)
§ 90.123 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by the Police Department
and the Department of Health or Department of Code Enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 90.123) (Ord. 0-08-0014, passed - -2008)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined in a sum up to an amount as set by the city from
time to time and costs of prosecution. Each day a violation of this chapter
continues constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   Dogs in parks prohibited. Any person violating §
90.046 of this chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not
exceeding $300 to which may be added imprisonment for a term not exceeding 180
days.
   (C)   Pet solid waste disposal. Any person(s) who is found to be in
violation of the provisions of §§
90.121 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed an amount as set by the city
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 90.999) (Ord. 3087, passed - -1975; Ord. 0-02-0018, passed - -
2002; Ord. 0-08-0014, passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Adoption of state law
   
91.002   Privies and outhouses
   
91.003   Cleaning of privy vaults, cesspools, or pits
   
91.004   Emergency services telephone number
Birth and Deaths
   
91.015   Reports
   
91.016   Birth or death certificates
   
91.017   Burial permits
   
91.018   Administrative expenses
   
91.019   Body transportation permit
Contagious Diseases
   
91.035   Reports
   
91.036   Quarantine
   
91.037   Travel forbidden
   
91.038   Sale or use of food and food products from premises; presence of
animals
   
91.039   Disinfection of premises
   
91.040   Exclusion from school
   
91.041   Relocation of sick persons; contaminated articles
   
91.042   Private funerals for certain deaths
   
91.043   Disease prevention expenses
   
91.044   Prevention and control of venereal disease
   
91.045   Free vaccinations
   
91.046   Diseased employees
Dangerous, Hazardous, or Toxic Substances
   
91.060   Definitions
   
91.061   Storage, handling, or disposal requirements
   
91.062   Modification authority
   
91.063   Required
   
91.064   Definitions
   
91.065   Applicability
   
91.066   Notification; information required
   
91.067   Written information required
   
91.068   Premises right of entry
   
91.069   Enforcement authority
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The city adopts the provisions of I.C. 36-9-25.
(Prior Code, § 91.001)
§ 91.002 PRIVIES AND OUTHOUSES.
   (A)   Privies and outhouses are prohibited within the city; provided, that
when it is impossible or unreasonable to connect with sewer or water
facilities, the Board of Health may upon a specific, detailed, verified
petition permit the construction and use of a privy after investigation and
approval in writing by the City Health Officer.
   (B)   The privy must be maintained in a sanitary manner and shall be so
constructed as not to pollute the air or the earth, and so constructed as to be
absolutely watertight and well ventilated.
(Prior Code, § 91.002) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.003 CLEANING OF PRIVY VAULTS, CESSPOOLS, OR PITS.
   It is unlawful for any person to fill up an abandoned privy vault, cesspool,
or pit of any kind without first cleaning the same to the bottom and sprinkling
liberally with quick lime or other disinfectant approved by the City Health
Officer.
(Prior Code, § 91.003) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.004 EMERGENCY SERVICES TELEPHONE NUMBER.
   (A)   The Mayor or his or her designated representative is authorized to
proceed with any and all actions necessary to establish 911 as the telephone
number designated for emergency services.
   (B)   The telephone number 911 is designated as the emergency services
telephone number for the city.
   (C)   The Illinois Bell Telephone Company and its successors is authorized
to designated 911 as the emergency services telephone number for the city and
to install equipment or apparatus as necessary to provide 911 emergency
services, pursuant to any agreements established or required under division (A)
above.
(Prior Code, § 91.035)
BIRTH AND DEATHS
§ 91.015 REPORTS.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of all physicians, midwives, and all other
persons now permitted or entitled to practice obstetrics in this state to
report all births, deaths, and stillbirths in the city to the City Health
Officer on forms prescribed by the State Board of Health.
      (2)   Stillbirths of 20 weeks gestation and over shall be reported as
both births and deaths and when any death, birth, or stillbirth may occur with
no physician or midwife in attendance, the same shall be reported by the
householder or other person in charge at the death, birth, or stillbirth.
(Prior Code, § 91.015)
   (B)   When due. All reports required in division (A) above shall be made to
the City Health Officer within three days after the occurrence is known and no
burial permit shall be issued by the City Health Officer or his or her deputy
until a complete death certificate has been filed.
(Prior Code, § 91.016)
   (C)   Maintenance.
      (1)   All records of births and deaths shall be kept and preserved in the
office of the City Health Officer at the City Hall.
      (2)   The City Health Officer shall procure suitable books at the expense
of the city, the form of which shall be prescribed by the State Board of
Health, in which the pertinent information contained in the birth and death
reports shall be entered, and the book or books shall be kept and preserved as
other public records.
      (3)   The City Health Officer shall copy in the records the reports of
births, deaths, and stillbirths filed in his or her office and shall forward
the original certificate to the State Board of Health within three days.
      (4)   The City Health Officer shall comply with the rules and regulations
of the State Board of Health concerning the reports of births and deaths.
(Prior Code, § 91.017)
§ 91.016 BIRTH OR DEATH CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Upon request, the City Health Officer shall furnish to any applicant
with a legal or personal interest a certified copy of any birth or death
certificate as the same appears of record.
   (B)   (1)   A charge of an amount as set by the city from time to time shall
be made for all certificates, which sum shall be the property of the city and
shall be paid into the General Fund.
      (2)   No charge shall be made for certificates required for benefits for
services with the armed forces or for work permits for children as provided by
law.
   (C)   The City Health Officer shall keep financial records, diligently,
pursuant to a plan approved by the City Controller. He or she shall pay the
money due the city at that time and shall make an accounting in the manner
required by law and this code.
(Prior Code, § 91.018)
§ 91.017 BURIAL PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Health Officer to issue burial
permits for deaths occurring within the city; provided, that a complete death
certificate has been filed in his or her office by the attending physician and
that there is no evidence of death by violence or criminal practice.
      (2)   If the death occurred without medical attendance or the physician
last in attendance fails to or refuses to sign the death certificate, the City
Health Officer shall investigate and certify as to the cause of death before
issuing a permit for burial, cremation, or other disposition of the body; if
the circumstances suggest that the death or stillbirth was caused by other than
natural causes, the Health Officer shall refer the case to the coroner for
investigation and certification.
   (B)   The City Health Officer shall have the power to appoint special
deputies for the issuance of burial permits. These deputies shall serve without
any expense to the city.
(Prior Code, § 91.019)
§ 91.018 ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.
   It shall be the duty of the Common Council to appropriate sufficient funds
for adequate clerical assistance and supplies to carry out the provisions of
this chapter and to collect and record all birth certificates available.
(Prior Code, § 91.020)
§ 91.019 BODY TRANSPORTATION PERMIT.
   When death or stillbirth occurs outside this state and the body is
accompanied by a permit for burial, removal, or other disposition issued in
accordance with the law and regulations in force where the death or stillbirth
occurs, the permit shall authorize the transportation of the body into or
through this city and state.
(Prior Code, § 91.021) Penalty, see § 91.9999
CONTAGIOUS DISEASES
§ 91.035 REPORTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all physicians and other persons permitted to
treat diseases in the state, who are called upon to attend a sick person in the
city and who find the cause of the sickness to be of a contagious or infectious
character or of a disease ordered to be reported by the rules of the State
Board of Health, to report the facts to the City Health Officer immediately.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every physician in the city to report
forthwith in writing to the State Board of Health on blanks furnished by the
Board the name, address, age, sex, color, marital state, occupation, name of
disease and other related statistical facts as may be required of every person
coming under his or her examination or care having gonorrhea, chancroid, or
syphilis. All reports shall be confidential.
   (C)   Whenever any person knows, or has reason to believe that any member of
his or her family or household, a boarder, roomer, or visitor, has either
anthrax, chickenpox, diphtheria, German measles, glanders, hydrophobia,
influenza, lethargic-encephalitis, measles, cerebrospinal meningitis, mumps,
ophthalmia, neonatorum, poliomyelitis, pneumonia, scarlet fever, smallpox,
tetanus, trachoma, tuberculosis, typhoid fever, whooping cough, tularemia,
undulant fever, malaria, bacillary dysentery, or any other communicable disease
listed in the rules of the State Board of Health he or she shall, immediately
from the time the existence of the disease is known, if no physician is in
attendance, give notice thereof to the City Health Officer.
   (D)   When any person who owns, manages, or keeps any hotel, apartment
building, boardinghouse, lodginghouse, or inn and who knows, or has reason to
believe that any occupant of the premises has any communicable disease, he or
she shall immediately, if no physician is in attendance, give notice thereof to
the City Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 91.050) Penalty, see § 91.9999
§ 91.036 QUARANTINE.
   (A)   The City Health Officer, upon being notified in any way of the
existence of any of the diseases which are required to be reported by law or
rules of the State Board of Health, shall immediately, in person or by deputy,
quarantine the infected house, rooms, or premises to as to isolate effectually
the cases, and the family if necessary, in a manner and for a time as may be
necessary to prevent transmission of the disease. Whenever a house, tenement,
or room is placed in quarantine, a placard shall be posted in a conspicuous
position, giving the name of the disease, in letters not less than two inches
high, and also containing the following quarantine order: “All persons are
forbidden to enter or leave these premises without special permit from the City
Health Officer, and all persons are forbidden to remove or mutilate this card,
or to interfere in any way with this quarantine without orders from the Health
Officer.” When visiting persons afflicted with smallpox, diphtheria, membranous
croup, scarlet fever, or other infectious disease named in the rules of the
State Board of Health, all physicians and health officers shall take
precautions as are directed in the rules of the State Board of Health covering
the matter.
   (B)   Whenever a physician shall report, in writing, to the State Board of
Health that a person having gonorrhea, chancroid, or syphilis in an infectious
state, whom he or she has treated and examined, cannot properly and safely be
treated at home, he or she shall communicate the fact to the State Board of
Health and make recommendations as he or she may deem proper; and when it is
possible and in the judgment of the State Health Commissioner it is advisable,
the reported person shall be quarantined and treatment given until a time as
the patient may be no longer infectious.
   (C)   No person other than a licensed physician, undertaker, or nurse in the
discharge of his or her duty may enter or leave any house or building under
quarantine or enter or leave any quarantined area without first procuring
permission from the City Health Officer and obeying absolutely his or her
directions as to all sanitary precautions which he or she may require.
   (D)   When a case of any of the quarantinable diseases has recovered or has
been terminated by death, the attending physician shall notify the City Health
Officer and as soon thereafter as the City Health Officer deems it advisable
and safe, he or she shall instruct the family and members of the household as
to terminal disinfection necessary and required, and when the necessary
instructions have been carried out, the quarantine shall be released.
(Prior Code, § 91.051) Penalty, see § 91.9999
§ 91.037 TRAVEL FORBIDDEN.
   No person who is, or who has been recently affected with any communicable
disease listed in §
91.035, except those in which absolute quarantine is not required, shall be
permitted to travel in any common carrier or appear upon the public streets or
highways or to appear in any public place of gathering, or to travel in any
public vehicle or vessel, until a certificate is issued by the attending
physician to the Health Officer within whose jurisdiction the case occurs,
stating that all danger from infection or contagion by reason of the disease is
passed and the certificate is approved and endorsed by the Health Officer and
written permission is given to the person, by the Health Officer having
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 91.052) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.038 SALE OR USE OF FOOD AND FOOD PRODUCTS FROM PREMISES; PRESENCE OF
ANIMALS.
   (A)   The sale or use of milk or dairy food products from the premises where
one of the quarantinable diseases exists or where typhoid fever is present, is
strictly forbidden unless the milk, dairy, or food products are handled, cans
and pails washed, and stock cared for by persons entirely separated from the
affected person and family, and then only upon permission of the Health Officer
having jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   No milk bottles shall be taken from premises on which a
quarantinable disease exists until the quarantine has been raised, and the
bottles have been thoroughly cleansed and disinfected by order of the Health
Officer.
      (2)   Milk tickets and bread tickets shall not be taken away from the
premises while the premises are under quarantine.
      (3)   Cats and dogs and other domestic animals belonging to premises
under quarantine shall be kept out of the house and from contact with the
patient. Should these precautions not be observed strictly, it shall be the
duty of the Health Officer to cause the domestic animals to be destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 91.053) Penalty, see § 91.9999
§ 91.039 DISINFECTION OF PREMISES.
   Immediately after the recovery or death of any infected person the City
Health Officer shall cause the infected premises and infected persons to be
thoroughly disinfected and cleansed according to the methods described in the
rules of the State Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 91.054)
§ 91.040 EXCLUSION FROM SCHOOL.
   When a case of communicable disease is reported to the City Health Officer,
it shall be his or her duty to ascertain the school attended by any child or
children from the infected premises and to serve notice upon those in charge of
the school, requiring that all persons from the infected premises be excluded
from the school until a medical certificate of health with a written permit
from the Health Officer is presented.
(Prior Code, § 91.055)
§ 91.041 RELOCATION OF SICK PERSONS; CONTAMINATED ARTICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Health Officer shall have power to remove or cause to
be removed from any hotel, boardinghouse, apartment house, or other building of
like character to a proper place designated by the Health Officer all persons
sick with any contagious, infectious, or pestilential disease and the officer
shall also have power to remove to a proper place designated all things and
articles within the city which, in his or her opinion, shall be infected with
any manner likely to communicate disease to the inhabitants of the city and the
Health Officer may destroy or cause to be destroyed the articles or things when
in his or her opinion the safety of the public health requires it.
      (2)   When articles are destroyed upon orders of the Health Officer, the
actual cash value of the articles shall be claimed against the General Fund of
the city; provided, that no sick person shall be removed except in the manner
provided by law.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever the City Health Officer shall know, suspect, or be
informed of the existence of any communicable disease infectious to the public
health and there be no physician in attendance, or should any physician while
in attendance fail or refuse to report immediately to the Health Officer such
case, it shall be the duty of the Officer or his or her deputy to examine the
case of alleged communicable disease infectious to the public health.
      (2)   If, in the judgement of the City Health Officer, the afflicted
person should be isolated and quarantined, it shall be the duty of the officer
and he or she is empowered to remove the afflicted person. All expenses of the
removal shall be paid by the Board of Health out of the General Fund of the
city. The removal and maintenance of the afflicted persons shall be in
compliance with law.
(Prior Code, § 91.056) Penalty, see § 91.9999
§ 91.042 PRIVATE FUNERALS FOR CERTAIN DEATHS.
   In all cases of death from cholera, bubonic plague, leprosy, typhus fever,
smallpox, diphtheria, membranous croup, scarlet fever, and cerebrospinal fever,
the funeral shall be strictly private, and the burial shall be made according
to the rules of the State Board of Health. No public or church funeral shall be
held or any person permitted to enter the house containing the remains,
excepting the relatives of the deceased, the minister, and the undertaker and
his, her, or their assistants, unless by permission of the Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 91.057) Penalty, see § 91.9999
§ 91.043 DISEASE PREVENTION EXPENSES.
   The expenses incident to disease prevention shall be paid by the city when,
in the opinion of the City Health Officer, prevention becomes necessary in the
interests of public health.
(Prior Code, § 91.058)
§ 91.044 PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF VENEREAL DISEASE.
   (A)   Whenever the Board of Public Health and the City Health Officer
determine that there exists a prevalence of venereal disease inimical to the
public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city or that the
situation is causing economic interference with industry or with any other
phase of public welfare, the Board of Public Health or City Health Officer may
request of the Common Council and the Mayor an appropriation from the General
Fund of the city for the prevention and control of venereal disease and for the
hospitalization and quarantine of venereal disease cases for the support and
maintenance of a program for the prevention and control of the disease if the
Health Officer and Board of Health may deem it necessary and expedient. The
City Health Officer shall transmit the request in writing to the President of
the Common Council who shall present it at the next meeting of the Common
Council. The Common Council may appropriate out of any money which may be
available from the General Fund of the city an amount as it shall deem
necessary and advisable to carry out properly the program for the prevention
and control of venereal disease.
   (B)   Any sum of money so appropriated shall be set aside in a special fund
to be known as the Board of Health—Venereal Disease Prevention and Control
Fund. The Board of Health shall have full and complete authority to expend the
funds when appropriated.
   (C)   There may also be levied annually by the Common Council for the
control and prevention of venereal diseases, a tax of not more than $0.03 on
each $100, or another amount as set by the city from time to time, of taxable
property in the city as the same appears on the tax duplicate, which shall be
in addition to other taxes of the city, for the prevention and control of
venereal disease. Any unexpended balance remaining in the Fund at the end of
the fiscal year shall not revert to the General Fund but shall remain in the
special fund.
   (D)   Warrants for expenditures for the prevention of venereal disease shall
be drawn by the City Controller upon a voucher of the Board of Health in the
same manner as expenditures are made from the Board of Health General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 91.059) Penalty, see § 91.9999
§ 91.045 FREE VACCINATIONS.
   (A)   The city shall supply free of charge diphtheria, scarlet fever,
tetanus (lockjaw) antitoxin, and antirabic virus to people too poor to purchase
the same, when proper blank forms are filled out in compliance with this
section and other law.
   (B)   Upon the receipt of an official blank duly executed, any dealer may
supply the antitoxin or virus, and the blank shall be a legal claim against the
city for the market price of the antitoxin or virus.
   (C)   All costs hereby incurred through legal purchases of antitoxin or
virus shall be paid by the city.
   (D)   The City Health Officer shall notify the Prosecuting Attorney of any
violation of this section and shall also make reports required by law.
(Prior Code, § 91.060)
§ 91.046 DISEASED EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   No employer shall permit or suffer any person to work who is afflicted
with any contagious, infectious, or venereal disease, nor shall any sick person
work anywhere within the city in the production, preparation, manufacture,
processing, handling, picking, storage, sale, distributing, and transporting of
food.
   (B)   No food product shall be sold in the city when the product has been
prepared, manufactured, stored, or delivered by any person who is infected with
any contagious, infectious, or venereal disease.
(Prior Code, § 91.061) Penalty, see § 91.9999
DANGEROUS, HAZARDOUS, OR TOXIC SUBSTANCES
§ 91.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Individual, partnership, co-operative, firm, company, corporation,
association, trust, estate, government entity, or any other legal entity or
their legal representatives, agents, or assigns.
   SUBSTANCES CONSIDERED AS DANGEROUS, HAZARDOUS, OR TOXIC. Those which are
items listed in CERCLA § 304, being U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), 40 C.F.R. Table 302.4.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. 3502, passed - -1989)
§ 91.061 STORAGE, HANDLING, OR DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person that uses, stores, handles, or disposes of a substance defined as
dangerous, hazardous, or toxic by this subchapter shall be required to furnish,
maintain, revise, and update the following at their location(s) within the
city:
   (A)   A weatherproof lock box or other designated area of sufficient size to
hold a binder(s) that shall contain all the material data sheets or other
similar substance information sheets for each dangerous, hazardous or toxic
substance used, stored, handled, or disposed of, and the lock box shall be
bright yellow in color on all sides including the top and bottom and meet the
ANSI (American National Standards Institute) Specification Z53.1. The lock box
shall be located within 100 feet of the entrance to the plant or facility, at a
height of between 36 inches to 48 inches above the ground. The placement of the
lock box in the plant or facility shall be approved by the Chief of the Fire
Department or his or her designee;
   (B)   Included in the lock box is a facility plot plan made to the scale of
one inch equals 20 feet containing:
      (1)   The location and identification of each structure;
      (2)   The location and size of all fire hydrants located on the premises
within 500 feet of the boundary line of the premises;
      (3)   The location and quantity of any other firefighting, spill
response, or safety related equipment such as, but not limited to:
         (a)   Water sprinkler;
         (b)   Foam suppressants, (by type and quantity);
         (c)   Dry powder suppressants (fixed system);
         (d)   Protective clothing (specify fire/acid suits or other special
suits);
         (e)   Self contained breathing apparatus (list amount of breathing
time in minutes);
         (f)   Resuscitator;
         (g)   Natural gas shutoff valves;
         (h)   Electrical shutoff points;
         (i)   Municipal water shutoff;
         (j)   Drains to the city’s Sanitary District;
         (k)   Inplant telephones;
         (l)   Telephones; and
         (m)   Other items the city’s Fire Chief of designee may require.
   (C)   (1)   An emergency action plan (EAP) that shall outline the
responsible persons and their actions in the event of a fire, spill, leak,
discharge, release of a dangerous, hazardous, or toxic substance regulated by
this subchapter.
      (2)   The plan shall be submitted to the Chief of the Fire Department
within 90 days of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. 3502, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.062 MODIFICATION AUTHORITY.
   In order to accommodate the wide variety, in size and complexity of
businesses and industries located in the city, the Fire Chief, or his or her
designee, may modify any section of this subchapter on a case by case basis, in
order to make it more effective.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. 3502, passed - -1989)
§ 91.063 REQUIRED.
   Any spill, leak, discharge, or release of a dangerous, hazardous, or toxic
substance into or onto the environment shall be immediately reported to the
city’s Emergency Communications Center, by telephone or in person, as provided
in this section.
   (A)   Any spill, leak, discharge, or release of a dangerous, hazardous, or
toxic substance into or onto the environment in excess of CERCLA reportable
quantities (RQ), which does not remain on the grounds of a facility site, shall
be immediately reported to the city’s Emergency Communications Center.
   (B)   A report will not be required on any spill, leak, discharge, or
release of a dangerous, hazardous, or toxic substance into or onto the
environment not in excess of CERCLA “RQ” which remains on the grounds of a
facility site.
   (C)   Any spill, leak, discharge, or release of a dangerous, hazardous, or
toxic substance into or onto the environment involving any mode of
transportation on public rights-of-way, highways, railways, and the like shall
be immediately reported to the city’s Emergency Communications Center.
(Prior Code, § 95.15) (Ord. 3503, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.064 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERCLA. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act of 1980, and any amendments to that Act from 1980, inclusive,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq.
   ENVIRONMENT. Air, land, or water, or its combination.
   FACILITY. Individual, partnership, co-operative, firm, company, corporation,
association, trust, estate, government entity, or any other legal entity or
their legal representatives, agents, or assigns.
   IMMEDIATELY. Within five minutes after discovery of the spill, leak,
discharge, or release of the dangerous, hazardous, or toxic substance.
   SUBSTANCES CONSIDERED DANGEROUS, HAZARDOUS, OR TOXIC. Those which are items
listed in CERCLA § 304, 40 C.F.R. Table 302.4.
(Prior Code, § 95.16) (Ord. 3503, passed - -1989)
§ 91.065 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not apply to those releases permitted by federal,
state, county, and city regulations.
(Prior Code, § 95.17) (Ord. 3503, passed - -1989)
§ 91.066 NOTIFICATION; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   The following information shall be supplied at the time of the notification:
   (A)   Company and/or person’s name reporting the incident;
   (B)   The chemical name or identity of the substance;
   (C)   An estimate of the quantity of the substance that was released into
the environment;
   (D)   An estimate of the time and duration of the occurrence;
   (E)   The medium or media into where the spill, leak, discharge, or release
occurred and what adjoins it;
   (F)   Any known or anticipated acute or chronic health risks associated with
the emergency, and appropriate advice regarding medical attention referenced on
the material safety data sheets;
   (G)   Recommended precautions, if any, to take as a result of occurrence,
including the need for the Haz-Mat Team; and
   (H)   The name and telephone number of the person or persons to be contacted
for further information.
(Prior Code, § 95.18) (Ord. 3503, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.067 WRITTEN INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Within 96 hours, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, after a
spill, leak, discharge, or release of the dangerous, hazardous, or toxic
substance (that was required to be reported) has been terminated, the person
and/or company reporting or responsible for the spill shall, in writing, submit
the following information to the Director, Department of Air Quality Control,
and the city’s Fire Department Fire Chief:
   (A)   The actual quantity of the substance involved in the incident and the
method used to determine that quantity;
   (B)   The reason why the incident occurred;
   (C)   The action to be taken to prevent similar incidents; and
   (D)   The method, extent, and duration of any clean-up actively required or
undertaken.
(Prior Code, § 95.19) (Ord. 3503, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.068 PREMISES RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   All persons shall allow the city’s Fire Department hazardous material
response team to enter any premises whereupon a spill, leak, discharge, or
release of a dangerous, hazardous, or toxic substance has been reported or has
occurred.
(Prior Code, § 95.20) (Ord. 3503, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.069 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire Department, or
his or her designee.
(Prior Code, § 95.21) (Ord. 3503, passed - -1989)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Dangerous, hazardous, or toxic substances. Whoever violates any
provision of §§
91.060 through
91.062 shall be fined not more than an amount as set by the city from time to
time. Every day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
       (2)   Dangerous, hazardous, or toxic substance spill reports. Whoever
violates any provision of §§
91.063 through
91.069 shall be fined not more than an amount as set by the city from time to
time per day. Each day a violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) (Ord. 3502, passed - -1989; Ord. 3503, passed - -1989)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Prevention
   
92.001   Impersonating firefighters
   
92.002   Hindering firefighters; damaging fire apparatus
   
92.003   Fires in alleys or open lots
   
92.004   Fires near inflammable liquids, wood frame buildings
   
92.005   Bonfires on streets and sidewalks
   
92.006   Damaging fire hose
   
92.007   Throwing fire brands
   
92.008   Taking lighted objects into posted area
   
92.009   Flameproofing of certain flammable materials for certain uses
   
92.010   Smoking in public buildings
   
92.011   False alarms of fire
   
92.012   Reports of certain fire losses
   
92.013   Private property saved from fires
Fire and Smoke Detectors
   
92.025   Residential requirements
   
92.026   Compliance required; when
   
92.027   Applicability
   
92.028   Detection systems for single-family and two-family structures
   
92.029   Detector placement near sleeping rooms
   
92.030   Detector placement in kitchens
   
92.031   Detector placement on heating plant level
   
92.032   Multi-family residential occupancy detector placement requirements
   
92.033   Nonresidential occupancy detection system requirements
   
92.034   Enforcement
Carbon Monoxide Detectors
   
92.045   Required for residential units
   
92.046   Exceptions
   
92.047   Installation and placement requirements
   
92.048   Compliance with state and federal regulations required
   
92.049   Disarming prohibited; exception
   
92.050   Required installation in central fossil fuel powered heating unit room
   
92.051   Fossil fuel defined
   
92.052   Constitutionality
Fireworks
   
92.065   Permit; required
   
92.066   Permit; application; requirements for issuance
   
92.067   Permit; bond
   
92.068   Storage
   
92.069   Seizure and removal
   
92.070   Exemptions
   
92.071   Consumer fireworks
 
   
92.999   Penalty
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.001 IMPERSONATING FIREFIGHTERS.
   No person not a member of the fire force shall impersonate a firefighter or
officer of the fire force, or wear in public the official city fire uniform or
exhibit a uniform, star, or badge or one resembling those of the fire force.
(Prior Code, § 92.001) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.002 HINDERING FIREFIGHTERS; DAMAGING FIRE APPARATUS.
   No person shall wilfully hinder any police officer, firefighter, or other
public official in the performance of his or her duty at a fire or in the
station nor shall any person wilfully in any manner injure, deface, damage, or
destroy any engine or fire apparatus belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 92.002) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.003 FIRES IN ALLEYS OR OPEN LOTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to make or cause a fire to be made in any
alley or open lot for the purpose of burning any waste materials except between
daylight and 6:00 p.m. when in a suitable metal or fire burner so constructed
as to prevent the escape of burning material or spark which might endanger
surrounding property; provided, that the burning does not violate the air
pollution and other pertinent portions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 92.003) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.004 FIRES NEAR INFLAMMABLE LIQUIDS, WOOD FRAME BUILDINGS.
   It is unlawful for any person to make or cause a fire to be made for burning
any waste materials in any place within a radius of 200 feet of any tank
containing inflammable liquid or any filling station pump, tank, or other inlet
or outlet for flammable liquids or to make or cause a fire to be made closer
than 30 feet to any wood frame building or stock, store, or accumulation of
lumber or other combustible material.
(Prior Code, § 92.004) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.005 BONFIRES ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made a bonfire on any
public street or sidewalk within the city.
(Prior Code, § 92.005) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.006 DAMAGING FIRE HOSE.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle of any kind over or to
damage any fire hose laid in the street at the scene of any fire or while in
use for any other purpose.
(Prior Code, § 92.006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.007 THROWING FIRE BRANDS.
   It is unlawful for any person to throw fire brands, fire balls, or any other
ignited substance or to aid, abet, or assist in throwing the same anywhere
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 92.007) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.008 TAKING LIGHTED OBJECTS INTO POSTED AREA.
   It is unlawful for any person to take any lighted cigarette, cigar, pipe,
fuse, candle, lantern, or other lighted object into any building, structure, or
place within the city where inflammable material is kept or into any place
where a sign is posted warning persons of possible danger from lighted objects.
(Prior Code, § 92.008) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.009 FLAMEPROOFING OF CERTAIN FLAMMABLE MATERIALS FOR CERTAIN USES.
   (A)   No person shall use cotton batting, straw, dry vines, leaves, trees,
celluloid, or other highly inflammable materials for decorative purposes in
show windows or in stores without a permit from the Fire Prevention Bureau.
   (B)   No person shall use paper or other readily inflammable materials for
decorative purposes in any place of public assembly unless the materials have
first been treated to render them flameproof in a manner prescribed by the Fire
Prevention Bureau.
   (C)   No person shall sell or offer for sale or use in any building or
structure within the city any Christmas tree unless it shall have been treated
to render it flameproof in a manner prescribed by the Fire Prevention Bureau.
(Prior Code, § 92.009) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.010 SMOKING IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   It is unlawful for any person to light a match or other flame-producing
device or to smoke in any theater or auditorium except in areas approved by the
Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention Bureau; provided, that the areas
are free from all inflammable and combustible floors, walls, furniture,
fixtures, and decorations. No person shall smoke, light, or carry a lighted
cigarette, cigar, or pipe, or similar article in any public library, public
school, or public school building, including gymnasiums and auditoriums and
similar buildings, unless authorized signs are displayed expressly permitting
the same; provided further, that this section shall not be construed to
prohibit smoking on the stage of any theater when used in connection with the
performance.
(Prior Code, § 92.010) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.011 FALSE ALARMS OF FIRE.
   It is unlawful for any person to give or cause to be given any false alarm
of fire by means of any fire alarm signal system, by telephone or otherwise or
to cry out a false alarm of fire in any church, public building, theater,
gymnasium, showroom, or in any other place where people congregate while the
same is being occupied by any person.
(Prior Code, § 92.011) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.012 REPORTS OF CERTAIN FIRE LOSSES.
   It shall be the duty of every person who is the owner, lessee, occupant, or
manager of any property to report all fire losses to the Fire Prevention Bureau
of the Fire Department of the city within 48 hours after a loss occurs when the
amount of the damage sustained exceeds an amount as set by the city from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 92.012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.013 PRIVATE PROPERTY SAVED FROM FIRES.
   No person shall be entitled to take away any property in the possession of
the fire force saved from any fire until he or she shall make satisfactory
proof of ownership.
(Prior Code, § 92.013) Penalty, see §
92.999
FIRE AND SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 92.025 RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability. The provisions of this subchapter shall not be
construed as affecting or changing any ordinance requirement for a fire alarm
system applicable to places of public resort or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 92.025)
   (B)   Detector systems required; standards. Every building having one or
more residential units shall be equipped with a fire and smoke detector system.
Residential units include single-family and multiple-family dwellings as
defined in the city zoning regulations. The detectors shall be sensitive to any
of the products for combustion except that detectors sensitive only to heat are
not acceptable. Alarm signaling devices shall be clearly audible in all
bedrooms when all intervening doors are closed. The detectors shall meet
Underwriters Laboratory Standards #217 or its equivalent.
(Prior Code, § 92.026)
   (C)   Upper level sleeping rooms; placement requirement.
      (1)   Where sleeping rooms are on an upper level, a detector shall be
placed at the center of the ceiling directly above the stairway.
      (2)   All detectors shall be located within 12 inches of the ceiling.
      (3)   Care shall be exercised to ensure that the installation will not
interfere with the operating characteristics of the detector.
(Prior Code, § 92.027)
   (D)   Kitchen detector; placement requirements. Where the kitchen level is
on a different level than the sleeping room or rooms, an additional detector
shall be required in the kitchen.
(Prior Code, § 92.028)
   (E)   Heating plant; detector requirements. Where the heating plant is on a
different level than either the kitchen or sleeping room levels, an additional
detector shall be required on that level.
(Prior Code, § 92.029)
   (F)   All residential occupancy buildings; detector requirements. Every
residential occupancy building, including hotels and motels, shall be equipped
with an approved smoke detector in each unit and at the top of each stairway
and exit way.
(Prior Code, § 92.030)
   (G)   Enforcement authority. It shall be the duty of the Fire Department
Inspections Division and the City Building Inspector to enforce or cause to
enforce the terms of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.031)
(Ord. 0-94-0027, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.026 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; WHEN.
   (A)   Buildings presently constructed may be used for residential purposes
only, without compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, but any
remodeling, repair, or construction of additions costing an amount as set by
the city from time to time must comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Where any of the remodeling, repair, or construction consists of
electrical rewiring to bring a building up to date on electrical code
requirements, all of the sections of this subchapter shall still apply but the
detectors shall be wired into the building electrical system.
(Prior Code, § 92.045) (Ord. 3180, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.027 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed as affecting or
changing any ordinance requirements for a fire alarm system applicable to
places of public resort or amusement.
(Prior Code, § 92.046) (Ord. 3180, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.028 DETECTION SYSTEMS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Every building constructed for single-family and two-family occupancy,
shall have installed therein an approved fire-detection, products-of-combustion
system.
   (B)   The detectors shall be sensitive to any of the products of combustion
except that detectors sensitive only to heat are not acceptable.
   (C)   (1)   Alarm signaling devices shall be clearly audible in all bedrooms
when all intervening doors are closed.
      (2)   The detectors shall meet minimum Underwriters Laboratory Standards
#217.
(Prior Code, § 92.047) (Ord. 3180, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.029 DETECTOR PLACEMENT NEAR SLEEPING ROOMS.
   Where sleeping rooms are on an upper level, a detector shall be placed at
the center of the ceiling directly above the stairway. All detectors shall be
located within 12 inches of the ceiling. Care shall be exercised to ensure that
the installation will not interfere with the operating characteristics of the
detector. When actuated, the detector shall provide an alarm.
(Prior Code, § 92.048) (Ord. 3180, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.030 DETECTOR PLACEMENT IN KITCHENS.
   Where the kitchen level is on a different level than the sleeping room or
rooms, an additional detector shall be required in the kitchen.
(Prior Code, § 92.049) (Ord. 3180, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.031 DETECTOR PLACEMENT ON HEATING PLANT LEVEL.
   Where the heating plant level is on a different level than either the
kitchen or sleeping room levels an additional detector shall be required on
that level.
(Prior Code, § 92.050) (Ord. 3180, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.032 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY DETECTOR PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Every building constructed for multi-family residential occupancy, including
hotels, motels, shall have installed standards #217 therein an Underwriters
Laboratory smoke detectors that meets the minimum approved supervised fire-
detection, products of combustion system in each unit and at the top of each
stairway and exitway. Detectors that are sensitive to heat only are not
acceptable.
(Prior Code, § 92.051) (Ord. 3180, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.033 NONRESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY DETECTION SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   Every building constructed for nonresidential occupancies over 5,000 square
feet in area, but less than 10,000 square feet in area, shall have installed
therein an approved fire detection system in accordance with the standards for
the system as established by the National Fire Protection Association.
(Prior Code, § 92.052) (Ord. 3180, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.034 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Department of Inspection or other official
designated by the Mayor to enforce or cause to be enforced the terms of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.053) (Ord. 3180, passed - -1978)
CARBON MONOXIDE DETECTORS
§ 92.045 REQUIRED FOR RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
   Every building having one or more residential units shall be equipped with
approved carbon monoxide detectors. Residential units include single-family and
multiple-family dwellings as defined in the city zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 92.065) (Ord. 0-94-0026, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.046 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following residential units shall not be required to contain carbon
monoxide detectors:
   (A)   A residential unit in a building that does not rely on combustion for
heat, ventilation, or hot water, and is not sufficiently close to any
ventilated source of carbon monoxide, as determined by the Building
Commissioner, to receive carbon monoxide from that source; and/or
   (B)   A residential unit that:
      (1)   Is heated by steam, hot water, or electric heat;
      (2)   Is not connected by duct work or ventilation shafts to any room
containing a fossil fuel-burning boiler or heater; and
      (3)   Is not sufficiently close to any ventilated source of carbon
monoxide, as determined by the Building Commissioner to receive carbon monoxide
from that source.
(Prior Code, § 92.066) (Ord. 0-94-0026, passed - -1994)
§ 92.047 INSTALLATION AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Not less than one approved carbon monoxide detector shall be installed
in each residential unit. The detector shall be installed within 40 feet of all
rooms used for sleeping purposes.
   (B)   In every hotel and motel, one approved carbon monoxide detector shall
be installed for every 10,000 square feet of floor area, or fraction thereof:
      (1)   On every floor on which a fossil fuel-burning appliance, boiler, or
furnace is located; and
      (2)   On every floor on which sleeping rooms are heated by any type of
warm air heating plant that burns fossil fuel. Floor area shall be computed
separately for each floor. Each dwelling unit employing space heating equipment
that is located within the dwelling unit and that burns fossil fuel shall be
equipped with at least one carbon monoxide detector.
(Prior Code, § 92.067) (Ord. 0-94-0026, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.048 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every approved carbon monoxide detector shall comply with all
applicable federal and state regulations, and shall bear the label of a
nationally recognized standard testing laboratory, and shall meet the standards
of Underwriters Laboratory #2034 or its equivalent.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall issue rules and regulations for the
implementation and administration relating to carbon monoxide detectors.
(Prior Code, § 92.068) (Ord. 0-94-0026, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.049 DISARMING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person to remove batteries from a carbon monoxide
detector or in any way make inoperable a carbon monoxide detector, except a
building owner or manager or his or her agent in the normal procedure of
replacing batteries.
(Prior Code, § 92.069) (Ord. 0-94-0026, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.050 REQUIRED INSTALLATION IN CENTRAL FOSSIL FUEL POWERED HEATING UNIT
ROOM.
   In every building that is heated by one main central fossil fuel powered
heating unit, and that is not exempted under §
92.046, one approved carbon monoxide detector must be installed in the room
containing the central heating unit.
(Prior Code, § 92.070) (Ord. 0-94-0026, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.051 FOSSIL FUEL DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   The term FOSSIL FUEL includes gas, kerosene, oil, propane, and wood.
(Prior Code, § 92.071) (Ord. 0-94-0026, passed - -1994)
§ 92.052 CONSTITUTIONALITY.
   If any provision of this subchapter or application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the invalidity
shall not affect other provisions of this subchapter which can be given effect
without the invalid provision or invalid application of this chapter. It is
declared to be the legislative intent of the Common Council that the ordinance
codified in this subchapter would have been adopted had any unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid provision or application not been included.
(Prior Code, § 92.072) (Ord. 0-94-0026, passed - -1994)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.065 PERMIT; REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful and it is prohibited for any person to store, sell, or to
use, discharge, or cause to be discharged, ignited, fired, or otherwise set in
action within the city any fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, fire crackers, rockets, sparklers, torpedoes, Roman candles, fire
balloons, or other fireworks or substances of any combination whatsoever
designed or intended for pyrotechnic display except after having obtained a
permit as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.085) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.066 PERMIT; APPLICATION; REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE.
   Permits for the public display of fireworks by properly qualified persons or
by the city officials, under the direct supervision of experts in the handling
of fireworks, may be issued by the City Controller under recommendations of the
State Fire Marshal and the Chief of the Fire Department in accordance with the
general licensing provisions of Title XI of this code and upon furnishing
information as may be required; provided, that the display shall be of a
character and so located, discharged, or fired as, in the opinion of the Chief
of the Fire Department after proper inspection, shall not be hazardous to
property or endanger any person and shall be handled by competent operators to
the approval of the Chief of the Fire Department; provided further, that
application for permits be made 15 days in advance of the date of display.
(Prior Code, § 92.086) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.067 PERMIT; BOND.
   Good and sufficient surety bond shall be required under the general
licensing provisions of Title XI of this code before the issuance of a permit
under this subchapter, conditioned for the payment of all damages which may be
caused either to persons or property, by reason of the permitted display and
arising from any acts of the permittee or persons under or through him or her.
(Prior Code, § 92.087) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.068 STORAGE.
   Fireworks or devices for pyrotechnic display may be stored within the limits
of the city when the permit for the storage has been issued by the city;
provided, that the building or premises in or upon which the storage is to be
made has been properly inspected by the Chief of the Fire Department and
certified as a proper place for storage; provided further, that no license
shall be issued for storage within 500 feet of a school, hospital, church, or
other public institution or any building used as a place of public assembly.
(Prior Code, § 92.088) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.069 SEIZURE AND REMOVAL.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, with the approval of the State Fire
Marshal, shall seize, take, remove, or cause to be removed, at the expense of
the owner, all stocks of fireworks or combustibles offered or exposed for sale,
stored, or held in violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.089)
§ 92.070 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to items of the kind and
nature mentioned in this subchapter which shall be in the possession of
railroads or transportation companies for the purpose of transportation, unless
the same shall be held voluntarily by railroads or companies as warehouse
workers; provided, that none of the provisions of this subchapter shall apply
to signaling devices used by railroad companies or to explosives used for
blasting or similar purposes.
(Prior Code, § 92.090)
§ 92.071 CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   The use of consumer fireworks is prohibited with the city limits
except for the specific hours and days that consumer fireworks are specifically
allowed by state statute.
   (B)   This section shall not in nay way be construed as affecting any noise
regulations in the city.
(Prior Code, § 92.091) (Ord. 0-07-0015, passed 6-11-2007) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of § 10.99.
   (B)   Fire detectors and smoke detectors; residential requirements. Any
person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
92.025 shall be fined an amount as set by the city from time to time for each
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Fire and smoke detectors. Any person, firm, or corporation violating
any provision of §§
92.026 through
92.034 shall be fined an amount as set by the city from time to time for each
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   Carbon monoxide detectors. Any person, firm, or corporation violating
any provision of §§
92.045 through
92.052 shall be fined an amount as set by the city from time to time for each
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (E)   Consumer fireworks. The violation of any provision of §
92.071 shall be punished by a fine in an amount as set by the city from time to
time for any subsequent violation.
(Prior Code, § 92.999) (Ord. 3180, passed - -1978; Ord. 0-94-0026, passed - -
1994; Ord. 0-94-0027, passed - -1994; Ord. 0-07-0015, passed 6-11-2007)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.001   Dangerous or offensive maintenance of premises
   
93.002   Common-law and statutory nuisances
   
93.003   Notice to abate; abatement by city
   
93.004   Reporting violations; right of entry for inspection
   
93.005   Summary abatement
   
93.006   Nuisances brought into city prohibited
   
93.007   Certain acts enumerated
   
93.008   Barbed wire
   
93.009   Cellars or drains emitting noxious odors prohibited
   
93.010   Coal and dirt; loading
   
93.011   Abandoning or discarding ice boxes and refrigerators
   
93.012   Sale of secondhand bed clothing
   
93.013   Substances that scatter in wind
   
93.014   Sale of unclean rags and fabrics
   
93.015   Uncovered cisterns and cellars
   
93.016   Placing flowerpots, bowls, or other articles on windowsills or
balconies
   
93.017   Handbills
   
93.018   Removal of weeds and rank vegetation
Litter
   
93.030   Definitions
   
93.031   Placement in receptacles
   
93.032   Throwing litter
   
93.033   Throwing out, dropping, or depositing litter from aircraft
   
93.034   Sweeping or depositing litter in gutters and streets; care of
sidewalks
   
93.035   Merchants’ duty to keep sidewalks free of litter
   
93.036   Truck loads blown or deposited in streets; wheels or tires depositing
mud, dirt, and foreign matter
   
93.037   Posting or affixing notices to poles, trees, and buildings prohibited;
exception
   
93.038   Maintenance of premises
   
93.039   Clearing private property by city; procedures
Rat Control
   
93.060   Removal of storage areas providing harborage
   
93.061   Elimination of feeding places required
   
93.062   Extermination
   
93.063   Ratproofing buildings
   
93.064   Vermin poison
New or Used Tire Storage
   
93.075   Definitions
   
93.076   Applicability
   
93.077   Long-term storage of waste tires prohibited
   
93.078   Open storage of tires prohibited
   
93.079   Retail and wholesale tire establishments
   
93.080   Enforcement and inspection
   
93.081   Entry upon property
Junked or Abandoned Vehicles
   
93.095   Definitions
   
93.096   Abandoning and leaving; generally
   
93.097   Allowing vehicles to remain on property
   
93.098   Removal by city; impounding
   
93.099   Immediate hazard constituting nuisance
 
   
93.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.001 DANGEROUS OR OFFENSIVE MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   (A)   No building, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, thing,
premises, or part thereof shall be made, used, kept, maintained, or operated in
the city if the making, using, keeping, maintaining, or operating shall be the
occasion of any nuisance or shall be dangerous or detrimental to health or
indecent or offensive to the senses.
   (B)   Any person who shall erect, construct, use, keep, or maintain or
permit to be erected, constructed, used, or maintained any condition, trade,
employment, or business or anything whatsoever which is prohibited by this
section shall be deemed and is declared to be the author of a nuisance.
   (C)   No substance, matter, or thing of any kind whatever, which shall be
dangerous or detrimental to health, or which shall become obnoxious or
injurious to public comfort, shall be allowed to exist in connection with any
factory, plant, or business or be used therein or be used in any work or labor
performed in the city, and no nuisance shall be permitted to exist in
connection with any factory, plant, or business or in connection with any work
or labor.
   (D)   Any factory, yard, building, or structure of any kind or soap factory,
distillery, lively stable, cattle yard, or shed, barn, packing house, or
rendering establishment which shall become noxious, foul, or which shall emit
an unwholesome odor or which shall become injurious to public comfort or health
is declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 93.001) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.002 COMMON-LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In all cases where no provision is made in this subchapter defining what are
nuisances and how the same may be removed, abated, or prevented, in addition to
what may be declared such in this code, those offenses which are known to the
common law and the statutes of the state as nuisances may, in case the same
exists within the city, be treated as such and be proceeded against as is
provided in this subchapter or in accordance with other provisions of law.
(Prior Code, § 93.002)
§ 93.003 NOTICE TO ABATE; ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   Whenever any nuisance shall be found on any premises within the city,
the Board of Health, the Board of Public Safety or other proper city
authorities are authorized to serve notice, in writing, upon the owner,
occupant, agent, or person in possession or control of any structure, lot,
thing, building, or premises in or upon which any nuisance may be found, or
upon the person owning or causing any nuisance, requiring him or her to abate
the nuisance within a reasonable time. In place of service of notice upon the
person abovementioned the notice may be posted upon the premises, structure, or
thing. It shall not be necessary in any case for the city authority to specify
or designate in the notices the manner in which any nuisance shall be abated
unless the city authority deems it advisable to do so. The notice may be given
or served by any officer who is so directed or delegated. If the person so
notified shall neglect or refuse to comply with the requirements of the order
by abating the nuisance within the time specified, the person shall be guilty
of a violation of the provisions of this subchapter and shall be subject to the
penalties provided herein.
   (B)   In the event of refusal or neglect on the part of the notified
offender to obey an order within the time limit named in the order, the City
Health Officer shall inform the Supervisor of Public Works upon a blank
provided by the Board of Health and it shall then be the duty of the Supervisor
of Public Works and he or she shall have the power and authority to remove and
abate the unlawful conditions. He or she shall keep an accurate account of the
cost and expenses thereof, which shall be paid from the city treasury upon
sworn vouchers of the Supervisor of Public Works. The cost and expenses shall
be a lien upon the property, to be placed upon the tax duplicate by the City
Controller and shall be collected by law as other taxes are collected and duly
paid into the city treasury.
   (C)   The proper city authority may cause any nuisance to be abated and
shall immediately thereafter cause an action to be instituted in the name of
the city against the owner, occupant, agent, or person in possession and
control of any structure, thing, lot, building, or premises in or upon which
any nuisance may be found or upon any person who is the owner or cause of any
nuisance for recovery of the amount of the expense of the abatement.
(Prior Code, § 93.003) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.004 REPORTING VIOLATIONS; RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying the provisions of this subchapter into
effect, it is made the duty of all officers and employees of the city to report
all violations of this subchapter to the City Attorney or Mayor for
prosecution.
   (B)   For this purpose, the Chief of Police, the Supervisor of Public Works,
the members of the police force, and the Board of Health, and each of them
shall be permitted at all hours to visit, enter into, or upon any building,
lot, grounds, or premises within the limits of this city to ascertain and
discover any nuisances and to make examination thereof.
(Prior Code, § 93.004) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.005 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   Whenever any nuisance shall be found on any premises within the city, the
Board of Public Health or Board of Public Safety or other proper city authority
is authorized, in its discretion, to cause the same to be summarily abated in a
manner as it may direct.
(Prior Code, § 93.005)
§ 93.006 NUISANCES BROUGHT INTO CITY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bring into the city or keep therein for sale or otherwise,
either for food or for any other purpose, any dead or live animal or any
matter, substance, or thing which shall be a nuisance or which shall occasion a
nuisance in the city or which may or shall be dangerous or detrimental to
health.
(Prior Code, § 93.006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.007 CERTAIN ACTS ENUMERATED.
   The following acts shall be violations of this subchapter and are declared
to be nuisances, but the enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Any billboard or sign erected along or upon any street or public
highway or vacant lot or acres and having fastened or placed thereon glaring
and unseemly pictures and signs to the annoyance of the citizens of the city;
   (B)   Any bowling alley, pool room, dance hall, or gaming house kept or
maintained in any residence portion of the city or operated to the annoyance of
the citizens there resident;
   (C)   The congregation of females for the purpose of illicit cohabitation in
any house, building structure, vehicle, or place;
   (D)   The leaving of any railroad or street car tracks in the streets of the
city which tracks are unused as such;
   (E)   Erecting, maintaining, using, or placing any building in violation of
the zoning or building provisions of this code; or
   (F)   Any building or part thereof which, by reason of its unsanitary
condition or its being infected with disease, is unfit for human habitation or
which from any other cause is a source of sickness among the inhabitants of
this city or which otherwise endangers the public health.
(Prior Code, § 93.007) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.008 BARBED WIRE.
   No person shall build, construct, use, or maintain any fence or barrier
consisting of or made of what is called barbed wire, along the line of or in,
upon, or along any public way or through, along, or around any public park;
provided, that nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the use or
maintenance of barbed wire in or on that part of any fence or barrier which is
higher than six feet from the surface of the public way or park.
(Prior Code, § 93.008) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.009 CELLARS OR DRAINS EMITTING NOXIOUS ODORS PROHIBITED.
   Any cellar, vault, drain, privy, pool, sewer, sink, catchbasin, or premises
which shall become noxious, foul, or offensive or which shall emit foul or
offensive odors, gases, effluvis, or stenches is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance; and any person who shall create, suffer, maintain, or permit a
nuisance upon any premises owned or occupied by him or her or in his or her
charge or control shall be subject to the provisions and penalties provided by
this code.
(Prior Code, § 93.009) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.010 COAL AND DIRT; LOADING.
   (A)   When coal or dirt are dumped or unloaded, care shall be taken to
prevent dust from being blown and settled in a manner which interferes with the
comfort and convenience of persons in the vicinity. It is unlawful to load or
unload coal in the city without first having sprinkled it in an efficient
manner to prevent any dust from coal from arising or settling in a way as to
cause annoyance or discomfort to persons in the vicinity.
   (B)   The violation of the terms of this section shall be considered a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 93.010) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.011 ABANDONING OR DISCARDING ICE BOXES AND REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building or
dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended, or
discarded ice box, refrigerator, or any other container of any kind which has
an airtight door or lock which may not be released for opening from the inside
of an ice box, refrigerator, or container.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building or
dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended, or
discarded ice box, refrigerator, or any other container of any kind which has
an airtight snap-lock or other device thereon without first removing the snap-
lock or doors from the ice box, refrigerator, or container.
(Prior Code, § 93.011) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.012 SALE OF SECONDHAND BED CLOTHING.
   The sale or offering for sale or vending of cast off, old, or secondhand bed
clothing within the city is declared to constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 93.012) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.013 SUBSTANCES THAT SCATTER IN WIND.
   (A)   No lime, ashes, coal, dry sand, hair, feathers, or other substances
that may be scattered by the wind shall be sifted through a sieve, agitated, or
exposed.
   (B)   No mat, carpet, or cloth shall be shaken or beaten, nor any cloth,
yarn, garment, material, or substance be scoured, cleaned, or hung, nor shall
any business be conducted over or in any public way or where particles set in
motion therefrom will pass into any public way or into any occupied premises.
   (C)   No usual or reasonable precaution shall be omitted by any person to
prevent fragments or other substances from falling or sand, dust, and light
material from flying into any public way or into any place or building from any
building or structure while the same is being altered, repaired, or demolished.
(Prior Code, § 93.013) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.014 SALE OF UNCLEAN RAGS AND FABRICS.
   (A)   The sale, offer for sale, or use of any rag or fabric, except in a
thoroughly clean condition, is declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   No manufacturer shall use or permit the use of any unwashed rags or
fabrics in any factory, work shop, or other place of employment owned or
controlled by him or her; provided, that the provisions of this section shall
not apply to rags or fabrics that become soiled in consequence of actual
commercial usage in a factory, work shop, or place of employment.
(Prior Code, § 93.014) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.015 UNCOVERED CISTERNS AND CELLARS.
   No person shall permit open or uncovered cisterns, cellars, wells, pits,
excavations, or vaults situated in any open or unfenced lot within the city and
the places are declared to be nuisances.
(Prior Code, § 93.015) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.016 PLACING FLOWERPOTS, BOWLS, OR OTHER ARTICLES ON WINDOWSILLS OR
BALCONIES.
   It is not unlawful for any person to place or keep on any windowsill,
railing, or balcony, top of porch or any other projection from any house or
other building in the city any flowerpot, wooden box, bowl, bottle, pitcher, or
other article or thing unless the same is securely and firmly fastened or
protected so as to render it impossible for any articles to fall into the
public way.
(Prior Code, § 93.016) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.017 HANDBILLS.
   (A)   In public places. No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street, or other public place
within the city, nor shall any person hand out or distribute or sell any
commercial handbill in any public place; provided, that it is not unlawful on
any sidewalk, street, or other public place within the city for any person to
hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any
noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it.
(Prior Code, § 93.055)
   (B)   In or upon vehicles. No person shall throw or deposit any commercial
or noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle; provided, that it is not
unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or distribute, without
charge to the receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a
vehicle who is willing to accept it.
(Prior Code, § 93.056)
   (C)   On private premises.
      (1)   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant.
      (2)   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon an private premises if requested by anyone thereon
not to do so, or if there is placed on the premises, in a conspicuous position
near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the following words:
“No Trespassing,” “No Peddlers or Agents,” “No Advertisement.”
      Or any similar notice indicating, in any matter, that the occupants of
the premises do not desire to be molested or have their right to privacy
disturbed or have any handbills left upon the premises.
      (3)   No person shall throw, deposit, or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited except
by handling or transmitting any handbill directly to the owner, occupant, or
other person then present in or upon private premises; provided, that in case
of inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided in this
subchapter, the person, unless requested by anyone upon the premises not to do
so, may place or deposit any handbill in or upon an inhabited private premises
if the handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent the handbill
from being blown or drifted about the premises or sidewalks, streets, or other
public places; except, that mailboxes may not be so used when so prohibited by
federal postal law or regulations.
      (4)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution
of mail by the United States, nor to NEWSPAPERS as defined in §
93.030, except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in a manner
as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk, or other public place or upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 93.057)
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.018 REMOVAL OF WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION.
   (A)   Owners of real property located within the corporate limits of the
city shall cut and remove weeds and other rank vegetation growing or remaining
on such property, including lots, parcels, or tracts of land, fence lines,
building lines, street parkways, improved sidewalks, and along alleys.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner and his or her deputies and/or designees
shall be responsible for the administration of this section.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONTINUOUS ABATEMENT NOTICE. Notice to the real property owner that each
subsequent violation during the same year for which the initial notice of the
violation was provided may be abated by the city or its contractors. A
CONTINUOUS ABATEMENT NOTICE may be posted at the property at the time of
abatement instead of by first class mail as required by division (E) below.
      IMPROVED SIDEWALKS. Sidewalks abutting any lot or land of an owner or
occupant.
      RANK VEGETATION. Vegetation growing with excessive luxuriance and vigor
which is at least six inches or higher and/or overgrown bushes, trees, shrubs,
and the like and may also be defined as dead bushes, trees, shrubs, and/or
weeds.
      STREET PARKWAYS. The planted area between the curb and sidewalk directly
adjacent to a property.
      WEEDS. Grass and other undesirable, unattractive, or unattended
vegetation that are six inches or higher.
   (D)   (1)   Weeds and other rank vegetation subject to removal under this
code provision shall be those which are six inches high or higher.
      (2)   All trash and debris discovered when removing weeds and other rank
vegetation must be removed at the time of mowing.
      (3)   All cut weeds and other cut rank vegetation left on sidewalks and/
or streets must be removed and properly disposed of.
   (E)   (1)   Any property owner who fails to remove weeds and other rank
vegetation, as defined herein shall be deemed to be in violation of this
section and maybe issued a continuous abatement notice as set forth in this
section.
      (2)   Notice of violation by the Building Commissioner shall be mailed to
the property owner’s address shown on the records of the County Auditor by the
method required by I.C. 36-7-10.1-3, or an equivalent service permitted under
I.C. 1-1-7-1, to the owner of record of real property with a single owner or to
at least one of the owners of real property with multiple owners, at the last
address of the owner for the property as indicated in the records of the County
Auditor on the date of the notice.
      (3)   One letter within a calendar year shall be deemed sufficient notice
for each and every lot, parcel, and lands owned by the offender within the
corporate limits of the city in case of party’s failure to comply with the
terms of this section.
      (4)   The city shall have the right to cut and remove weeds and rank
vegetation upon the property owner’s failure to do so within five days after
the mailing of notice of violation.
      (5)   (a)   A continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property
at the time of abatement in the event the city initially gives notice to the
property owner as required by I.C. 36-7-10.1-3.
         (b)   Said continuous abatement notice shall serve as notice to the
real property owner that each subsequent violation during the same calendar
year for which the initial notice of the violation was provided may be abated
by the city or its contractors.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   The Building Commissioner shall issue a bill to the
property owner at the address shown on the records of the County Auditor.
         (b)   The bill shall include the actual cost incurred by the city
either by using its own employees or an independent contractor plus
administrative costs.
      (2)   (a)   Administrative costs in an amount as set by the city from
time to time shall be charged for the first cut order during a calendar year.
         (b)   Second and subsequent cut orders during a calendar year shall
include the administrative cost of an amount as set by the city from time to
time.
   (G)   In the event a property owner disputes a notice of violation issued
under division (E) above or a bill issued under division (F) above, such
property owner may file a written appeal with the Board of Public Safety for
rescission or adjustment of such notice or bill within 14 days after the date
of such notice or bill.
   (H)   (1)   If the property owner fails to pay a bill under division (F)
above within ten days, the Building Commissioner shall certify to the Lake
County Auditor the amount of the bill plus an additional administrative cost as
referenced under division (F) above incurred in the certification.
      (2)   The County Auditor shall place the total amount certified on the
tax duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount including any
accrued interest, shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and
shall be disbursed to the Unsafe Building Fund of the city as provided in I.C.
36-7-10.1-4.
(Prior Code, § 93.085) (Ord. 16-0011, passed 10-24-2016)
LITTER
§ 93.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance invented, used, or designated for navigation for
flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT shall include helicopters and lighter than
air dirigibles and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage and collection receptacle.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature, which does
any one or more of the following things:
      (1)   Advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or thing;
      (2)   Directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
      (3)   Directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition, or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; provided, that the terms of
this division shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection
is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to the meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of any kind when either of the
same is held, given, or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety, and good order, provided further, that nothing
contained in this division shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving, or
taking place of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition, or event of
any kind without a license, where the license is or may be required by any law
of this state, this code, or under any ordinance of the city; and/or
      (4)   Contains reading matter other than advertising matter, is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or circulated
for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any person so
engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse, and rubbish, as defined in this section, and all
other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as prohibited in this
subchapter, tends to create a danger to public health, safety, and welfare.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation, as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United States
in accordance with federal statute or regulation and any newspaper filed and
recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and, in
addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with not less than four issues per year and sold to the
public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet, or
any other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the definitions of a commercial handbill or a
newspaper as provided in this section.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center, or any
other public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to active
or passive recreation.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building, or other structure designed
or used, either wholly or in part, for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule, or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to the dwelling, house, building, or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds, and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, cans, or
containers of all types, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, broken glass,
plastic, or metal or glass containers, bedding, crockery, and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(Prior Code, § 93.030) (Ord. 3513, passed - -1990)
§ 93.031 PLACEMENT IN RECEPTACLES.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place or
upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 93.031) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.032 THROWING LITTER.
   (A)   In or upon streets or sidewalks. No person shall throw or deposit
litter in or upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place within the city,
except in public receptacles, in authorized private receptacles for collection
or in official city dumps.
(Prior Code, § 93.032)
   (B)   From vehicles. No driver or passenger in a vehicle shall throw or
deposit litter upon any street or other public place or private property within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.033)
   (C)   In parks. No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within
the city, except in public receptacles in a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried away or deposited by the elements upon any part of
the park or upon any street or public place. Where public receptacles are not
provided, all litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 93.034)
   (D)   In fountains, ponds, or streams. No person shall throw or deposit
litter in any fountain, pond, lake, stream, bay, or any other body of water in
a park or elsewhere within the city.
(Prior Code, § 93.035)
   (E)   On private property.
      (1)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by the person or not; except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in a manner that litter will be prevented from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk, or other public
place or upon any private property.
      (2)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant
private property within the city, whether owned by the person or not.
(Prior Code, § 93.036)
Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.033 THROWING OUT, DROPPING, OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in any aircraft shall throw out, drop, or deposit within the city
any litter, handbill, or any other object.
(Prior Code, § 93.037) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.034 SWEEPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER IN GUTTERS AND STREETS; CARE OF
SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or other
public place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or
lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
   (B)   Persons owning or occupying property or places of business within the
city shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free from litter.
(Prior Code, § 93.038)
§ 93.035 MERCHANTS’ DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER.
   (A)   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street, or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway.
   (B)   Persons owning or occupying places of business within the city shall
keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free from litter.
(Prior Code, § 93.039) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.036 TRUCK LOADS BLOWN OR DEPOSITED IN STREETS; WHEELS OR TIRES DEPOSITING
MUD, DIRT, AND FOREIGN MATTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city
unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents, or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley, or
other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within the city the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any
street, alley, or other public place mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter, or
foreign matter of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 93.040) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.037 POSTING OR AFFIXING NOTICES TO POLES, TREES, AND BUILDINGS PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTION.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster, or other paper or device,
calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamp post, public
utility pole, or shade tree or upon any public structure or building, except as
may be authorized or required by this code or by law.
(Prior Code, § 93.041) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.038 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free from litter; provided, that this section shall not
prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
(Prior Code, § 93.042) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.039 CLEARING PRIVATE PROPERTY BY CITY; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Notice to remove. The Director of Maintenance Services Department is
authorized and empowered to notify the owner or his or her agent of any open or
vacant private property within the city to properly dispose of litter located
on the owner’s property which is dangerous to public health, safety, or
welfare. The notice shall be by registered mail, addressed to the owner at his
or her last known address.
   (B)   Action upon noncompliance; time limits. Upon the failure, neglect, or
refusal of any owner or agent so notified to properly dispose of litter
dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare within ten days after
receipt of the written notice, provided for in division (A) above, or within 15
days after the date of the notice in the event the same is returned to the city
post office department because of its inability to make delivery thereof;
provided, that the notice was properly addressed to the last known address of
the owner or his or her agent, the Director of Maintenance Services Department
is authorized and empowered to pay for the disposing of the litter or to order
its disposal by the city.
   (C)   Charge included in tax bill; when payable. When the city has effected
or paid for the removal of dangerous litter, the actual cost thereof, plus
accrued interest at the rate of 6% per annum from the date of the completion of
the work, if not paid by the owner prior to the limits of division (B) above,
shall be charged to the owner of the property on the next regular tax bill
forwarded to the owner by the city and the charge shall be due and payable by
the owner at the time of payment of the bill.
   (D)   Recorded statement to constitute lien.
      (1)   Where the full amount due the city is not paid by the owner within
ten days after the disposal of the litter, as provided for in divisions (A) and
(B) above, then the Director of Maintenance Services Department shall cause to
be recorded in the County Recorder’s office a sworn statement showing the cost
and expense incurred for the work, the date the work was done and the location
of the property on which the work was done. The recordation of the sworn
statement shall constitute a lien and privilege on the property and shall
remain in full force and effect for the amount due in principal and interest,
plus costs of court, if any, for collection, until final payment has been made.
   (2)   (a)   The costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by
law for the collection of taxes and, further, shall be subject to a delinquent
penalty of 8% in the event the lien is not paid in full on or before the date
the tax bill upon which the charge appears becomes delinquent.
         (b)   Sworn statements recorded in accordance with the provisions of
this section shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have been
complied with and that the work has been done properly and satisfactorily and
shall be full notice to every person concerned that the amount of the
statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated
or described in the statement and that the same is due and collectible as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 93.043) Penalty, see §
93.999
RAT CONTROL
§ 93.060 REMOVAL OF STORAGE AREAS PROVIDING HARBORAGE.
   (A)   Whenever accumulations of rubbish, boxes, lumber, scrap metal, car
bodies, or any other materials provide rat harborage, the person owning or in
control of the materials shall cause the materials to be removed or the
materials shall be stored so as to eliminate the rat harborage.
   (B)   Lumber boxes and similar materials shall be neatly piled. These piles
shall be raised at least a foot above the ground.
   (C)   When the owner of the materials cannot be found, after reasonable
search, the owner or manager of the premises on which the materials are stored
shall be responsible for disposal or proper piling of the materials.
(Prior Code, § 93.070) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.061 ELIMINATION OF FEEDING PLACES REQUIRED.
   No person shall place or allow to accumulate any materials that may serve as
food for rats in a site accessible to rats. Any waste material that may serve
as food for rats shall be stored in ratproof containers. Feed for birds shall
be placed on raised platforms or the feed shall be placed where it is not
accessible to rats.
(Prior Code, § 93.071) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.062 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Whenever rat holes, burrows, or other evidence of rat infestation are
found on any premises or in any building within the city, it shall be the duty
of the owner or manager of the property to exterminate the rats or to cause the
rats to be exterminated.
   (B)   Within ten days after extermination, the owner or manager shall cause
all of the rat holes or burrows in the ground to be filled with earth, ashes,
or other suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 93.072) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.063 RATPROOFING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or manager of any building in the
city to make the building reasonably ratproof, to replace broken basement
windows and, when necessary, to cover the basement window openings with
hardware, cloth, or other suitable material for preventing rats from entering
the building through the window openings.
   (B)   The owner or manager of any premises upon which sheds, barns, coops,
or similar buildings are located shall eliminate the rat harborages from within
and under the buildings by ratproofing, raising the buildings above the ground,
or by some other suitable methods; or sheds, barns, coops, or other buildings
shall be razed.
(Prior Code, § 93.073) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.064 VERMIN POISON.
   It is unlawful for any person, except persons under the jurisdiction of the
Board of Health, to spread or to cause or permit any agent or employee to
spread any poison for the purpose of killing rats, mice, insects, or other
vermin in any public way or public place in the city; and it is unlawful for
any person to spread or to cause or permit any agent or employee to spread any
poison for that purpose in any yard, court, passageway, or other open place on
private premises or on the outside of any building or structure, or in any
place within a building which is open to the general public, or where pet dogs,
cats, or other domestic animals or fowls have access, without placing the
poison in a receptacle of the kind or character that it can be reached only by
the kind of vermin which the poison is intended to kill, or without placing a
wire or other guard about same in a way that no child or domestic animal,
domestic fowl, or other harmless creature can reach the same.
(Prior Code, § 93.074) Penalty, see §
93.999
NEW OR USED TIRE STORAGE
§ 93.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NEW TIRE. A tire which has never been placed on a vehicle wheel rim.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, or an unincorporated
association.
   REMANUFACTURED TIRE. A waste tire which has been recapped, retreaded, or
regrooved and which has not been placed on the wheel of a motor vehicle.
   TIRE. A continuous, solid, or pneumatic rubber covering designed to encircle
a wheel of a motor car. This definition includes new tires, waste tires, and
remanufactured tires.
   WASTE TIRE. A tire that is not suitable for the tire’s original purpose
because of wear, damage, or defect. This definition includes a tire that has
been shredded, chopped, drilled with holes, or otherwise altered for recycling,
disposal, or any other purpose. It also means any used tire which is not being
held for immediate sale at retail or wholesale.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) (Ord. 0-95-0014, passed - -1995)
§ 93.076 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all property, including commercial,
industrial, or residential located within the city.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. 0-95-0014, passed - -1995)
§ 93.077 LONG-TERM STORAGE OF WASTE TIRES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The long-term storage of waste tires is prohibited within the
corporate limits of the city. For purposes of this subchapter, LONG-TERM is
defined as any period longer than the time waste tires are stored awaiting
pick-up and/or removal by a waste disposal firm which in no event shall exceed
30 days.
   (B)   Each owner or possessor of waste tires shall keep a record from which
it can be readily determined the day each individual waste tire came into the
person’s premises.
   (C)   Any waste tire existing on premises for which a record of its arrival
on the premises is not maintained shall conclusively be presumed to have been
stored in excess of 30 days in violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. 0-95-0014, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.078 OPEN STORAGE OF TIRES PROHIBITED.
   Open storage of tires is prohibited. OPEN STORAGE shall mean any means of
storage whereby waste tires are exposed to rain or can accumulate water.
(Prior Code, § 96.04) (Ord. 0-95-0014, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.079 RETAIL AND WHOLESALE TIRE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   New, remanufactured, and used tires which are intended for sale, at retail
or wholesale, for use as tires, may be stored on the site of the retail or
wholesale establishment without limitation as to time of storage. Tires,
however, shall not be stored outdoors and in no event shall the total number of
tires stored for sale at retail or wholesale exceed 150.
(Prior Code, § 96.05) (Ord. 0-95-0014, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.080 ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTION.
   The responsibility for inspection and enforcement of this subchapter shall
be shared equally among the Fire Department, the City Building Inspector, and
the City Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 96.06) (Ord. 0-95-0014, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.081 ENTRY UPON PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   If a condition violating the terms of this subchapter exists on
real property within the city, officers, or agents of the city may enter onto
that property and take appropriate action to bring the property into compliance
with this subchapter.
      (2)   However, before action to bring compliance may be taken, all
persons holding a substantial interest in the property must be given a
reasonable opportunity to bring the property into compliance which in no event
shall be longer than seven days.
      (3)   If action to bring the property into compliance is taken by the
city, the expense involved shall be made a lien against the property and
collected in the same manner as delinquent taxes on property are collected.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, the city
is specifically authorized to negotiate an agreed order or other written
undertaking with any person found to have violated the ordinance codified in
this subchapter. The agreed order shall provide for a remediation plan and
establish specific time limits for the implementation of the plan and shall
contain specified penalties for the failure to meet those time limits or any
other terms of the agreed order.
      (2)   Enforcement under this section shall abate during the period
covered by any agreed order so long as the terms and time limits contained in
the agreed order are being fulfilled and no additional violations of the
ordinance codified in this subchapter occur on the subject property.
      (3)   All agreed orders shall be approved, on behalf of the city by the
Building Inspector, Fire Chief, and City Health Officer or their respective
designees.
(Prior Code, § 96.07) (Ord. 0-95-0014, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
93.999
JUNKED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 93.095 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle whose owner has terminated the use and
care of a motor vehicle and has left the motor vehicle on open lands and has
either indicated by his or her words or actions an intent to leave the same and
no longer claim ownership thereof or has left the same without making
arrangements for the storage with the owner or occupant of the premises on
which it is located, for a period of at least 30 days.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides, and
transport persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without
limitation, automobile, truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, and wagon.
(Prior Code, § 103.01)
§ 93.096 ABANDONING AND LEAVING; GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city and no person
shall leave any vehicle at any place within the city for a time and under
circumstances as to cause the vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
   (B)   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked,
or junked vehicle on any street or highway within the city.
(Prior Code, § 103.02) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.097 ALLOWING VEHICLES TO REMAIN ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city,
whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any
partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked, discarded vehicle or any
vehicle without a valid state registration and license plate issued to the
vehicle and to the occupant, owner, purchaser, lessor, lessee, or tenant of any
lot, building, or structure therein or thereon situated, to remain on the
property longer than 24 hours.
   (B)   No person shall leave any such vehicle on any property within the city
for a longer time than 72 hours; except, that this section shall not apply to a
vehicle in an enclosed building, a vehicle on the premises of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the
operation of the business enterprise or a vehicle in an appropriate storage
place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city.
(Prior Code, § 103.03) (Ord. 0-01-0021, passed 6-21-2001) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.098 REMOVAL BY CITY; IMPOUNDING.
   The Board of Public Safety is authorized to remove or have removed any
vehicle left at any place within the city which reasonably appears to be in
violation of this subchapter or lost, stolen, or unclaimed. The vehicle shall
be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 103.04)
§ 93.099 IMMEDIATE HAZARD CONSTITUTING NUISANCE.
   Where the existence of a motor vehicle on the public highways or
thoroughfares or on private property shall be an immediate hazard requiring
prompt abatement to protect the public safety and shall thereby constitute a
nuisance, the Chief of Police may, on short notice or without notice, if notice
is infeasible, cause the same to be removed.
(Prior Code, § 103.05)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this subchapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall be found to have violated any provision of §§
93.075 through
93.081 shall be subject to a fine in an amount as set by the city from time to
time for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be deemed to have
been committed for each and every day on which any person shall be guilty of
the violation.
(Prior Code, § 96.99) (Ord. 0-95-0014, passed - -1995)
CHAPTER 94: UNIFORM ALARM SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
94.001   Interpretation
   
94.002   Definitions
   
94.003   City uniform central monitoring system
   
94.004   Alarm system instructions and service
   
94.005   Intentional false alarms prohibited
   
94.006   Report on alarm response; review
   
94.007   Remedies
Alarm Business
   
94.020   License required; application and fee      
   
94.021   Review of application
   
94.022   License renewal; fee
   
94.023   License nontransferable
   
94.024   Information to be supplied to consumer
Alarm Users
   
94.035   Permits required; application and fee
   
94.036   Permit renewal
   
94.037   Automatic dialing devices; local alarms
   
94.038   False alarms; notice of fines
Permit Revocation
   
94.050   Permit revocation
   
94.051   Review hearing; Alarm Board of Appeals
   
94.052   Effect of revocation
 
   
94.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.001 INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to effect the purpose of the
sections included herein and to achieve uniform interpretation and application
of the respective sections.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989)
§ 94.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM BUSINESS. A business by any individual, partnership, corporation, or
other entity selling, leasing, maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering,
replacing, moving, or installing any alarm system or causing to be sold,
leased, maintained, serviced, repaired, altered, replaced, moved, or installed
any alarm system in or on any building, structure, or facility.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged
to signal the occurrence of an illegal entry or other activity or condition
requiring urgent attention and to which the Police or Fire Department are
expected to respond. This definition does not include fire detectors, audible
alarms affixed to automobiles or other motor vehicles, or local alarms for home
use and dwelling units.
   ALARM USER. A person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
or other organization of any kind in control of any building, structure or
facility where an alarm system is maintained or activated.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. A device which is interconnected to a telephone
line and is programmed to select a predetermined telephone number and transmit
by a voice message or code signal an emergency message indicating the need for
an emergency response.
   EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION’S CENTER ADMINISTRATOR. An employee of the city
whose responsibility is to coordinate the administration and documentation of
alarm businesses and alarm systems as it relates to the effective enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter.
   FALSE ALARM. Any signal request or similar event, the purpose of which is to
alert or summon the Police or Fire Department assistance, but which is not in
response to actual or threatened emergency or criminal activity. FALSE ALARMS
include any communication, either directly or indirectly, or signal device,
which is in response to a signal or warning issued intentionally or
accidentally; negligently or accidentally activated signals; signals which are
the result of faulty, malfunctioning, or improperly installed or maintained
equipment; and signals which are purposely, but improperly, activated to alert
or summon the Police or Fire Department. FALSE ALARM shall not include signals
activated by unusually severe weather conditions or other natural causes.
   INTERCONNECT. To connect an alarm system, including an automatic dialing
device, to a telephone line, either directly or through a mechanical device
that utilizes the telephone, for the purpose of using the telephone line to
transmit a message upon activation of the alarm system.
   LICENSE DIVISION. The division of the City Controller’s office authorized to
issue permits and licenses and collect the fees for the permits and licenses as
provided in this chapter.
   LOCAL ALARM. Those alarms which activate an audible signal within the
proximity of a premises only.
   PERMIT YEAR. A 12-month period, beginning June 1 and ending May 31 of each
year.
   PRIMARY TRUNK LINE. A telephone line leading directly into the emergency
communication center for the purpose of handling emergency calls on a person-
to-person basis, or which is identified by a specific number in the telephone
directory.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989)
§ 94.003 CITY UNIFORM CENTRAL MONITORING SYSTEM.
   (A)   To the extent it is possible to do so without cost to the city, the
Board of Public Works is authorized to contract for the installation of a
uniform central monitoring system to receive visual and audible signals and
perform other related functions over a signal line or lines at the emergency
communication center (hereinafter ECC). The system shall have a capacity to
meet present needs and the ability to expand for future needs, and shall be
available to those who meet the requirements for permits under this chapter.
   (B)   An alarm user’s fire alarm system may be monitored at any outside
facility chosen by the alarm user or his or her alarm business; provided that,
if the fire alarm system is monitored at any off-premises location, it must
also be monitored by the city’s uniform control monitoring system (hereinafter
UCMS).
   (C)   However, a fire alarm system that is monitored by an outside
monitoring facility (hereinafter referred to as an OMF), which has the
capability to consistently notify the city’s UCMS in the ECC of the activation
of a customer’s fire alarm system within 90 seconds of the activation of that
alarm, need not also be monitored by the city’s UCMS.
      (1)   To facilitate random testing by the ECC staff of the 90-second
maximum notification time requirement, each customer (both commercial or
business and residential) of an OMF must have installed by its alarm
installation company a test button, the activation of which shall provide to
the OMF in the case of an actual fire; the communication room random tests will
determine whether the OMF has the capability to notify the city’s UCMS of an
alarm activation within 90 seconds of the activation of the test button.
      (2)   Tests of the 90-second maximum notification requirement shall be
done in a random manner on the facilities of OMF customers; no OMF customer
will be tested more than once per year, except as provided in division (C)(4)
below.
      (3)   To perform these random tests, a member of the ECC staff will go
unannounced to an OMF customer’s facility and, with his or her timepiece
synchronized to the UCMS computer timepiece, activate the customer’s test
button and note the exact time of activation (to the second); when he or she
returns to the communications room, he or she will check the computer print-out
for the time of notification by the OMF to the UCMS of a fire alarm at the
customer’s facility, and thereby determine whether the tested OMF has passed or
failed the test.
      (4)   If an OMF fails the test one time, notice thereon shall be given in
writing to the OMF and its customer and the tested facility and its OMF shall
be tested (unannounced) a second time within 60 days of the first test. If the
OMF passes this second test, failure of the first test will be disregarded. If
the OMF fails the second test as well, then either:
         (a)   The customer’s alarm system must (in addition, if desired by the
customer, to continued monitoring by the OMF) be monitored by the city’s UCMS;
or
         (b)   The customer must select a new or different OMF, which meets the
criteria of this chapter.
   (D)   The OMF of an alarm system customer whose alarm system is not wired
direct to the city’s UCMS or whose alarm system is not also monitored by the
city’s UCMS, shall report the activation of its customers’ alarms by way only
of the prescribed communications room emergency telephone numbers (as provided
to the OMF by the city’s alarm administrator). On all of its emergency alarm-
reporting calls to the ECC, the OMF must provide the individual four-digit
customer account number of the particular OMF customer whose alarm was
activated, which individual four-digit number is provided to each separate
alarm system owner by the city’s Alarm Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989)
§ 94.004 ALARM SYSTEM INSTRUCTIONS AND SERVICE.
   Every alarm business, selling, leasing, or otherwise furnishing to any user
of an alarm system, which is installed on premises located within the city,
shall furnish to the user instructions as provide information to enable the
user to properly operate the alarm system and to obtain service for the alarm
system at any time.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.005 INTENTIONAL FALSE ALARMS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly, intentionally, and without just
cause activate a security alarm to notify the Police or Fire Department in
situations where there is no actual or threatened emergency or criminal
activity, for notification of which the security alarm system is designed.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.006 REPORT ON ALARM RESPONSE; REVIEW.
   (A)   A police officer responding to a police alarm shall prepare a report
on his or her action and the actions of other responding officers regarding
each alarm, including his or her determination as to whether it was a false
alarm, what the weather conditions were at the time, the name of any individual
(as representative of the alarm owner) with whom he or she conferred, and the
substance of the conversation. The ECPD alarm incident report and/or officers
daily activity sheet form shall be used for this purpose.
   (B)   When that responding officer determines that the criminal activity
alarm to which he or she responded was a false alarm and the owner of the alarm
system involved submits to the Alarm Administrator a written request for review
of that determination within five days of the alarm, then the Alarm
Administrator shall provide to the alarm system owner an informal, but binding,
review and evaluation hearing at which hearing the entity conducting the
hearing shall redetermine the false alarm issue.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of a fire alarm, the highest ranking firefighter
shall prepare a “run report,” on which he or she shall indicate whether the
alarm was, in his or her determination, a false alarm and submit this report to
the ECFD Inspection Bureau.
      (2)   When the run report indicates a false alarm, the Inspector Bureau
shall hand deliver to the owner of the property/alarm system the ECFD false
alarm evaluation report, which report, if the owner chooses to challenge the
false alarm determination, must be returned by the owner to the Inspection
Bureau within five days.
      (3)   If the false alarm evaluation report is not returned to the
Inspection Bureau within five days, the run report determination of false alarm
shall stand.
   (D)   If the false alarm evaluation report is returned to the Inspection
Bureau within five days, the Chief Inspector shall, based on the contents of
that report and the contents of the run report, make a final binding
determination on the issue of whether the alarm shall be treated as a false
alarm.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989)
§ 94.007 REMEDIES.
   (A)   (1)   The conviction or punishment of any persons for violations of
the provisions of this chapter or for failing to secure a permit required by
this chapter shall not relieve the person from paying the permit fee or service
charge due and unpaid at the time of the conviction, nor shall the payment of
any permit fee or service charge prevent criminal prosecution for the violation
of the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   All remedies shall be cumulative. The use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedies for the purpose of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter may be by
civil action for abatement of a nuisance or by prosecution for violation of a
municipal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
94.999
ALARM BUSINESS
§ 94.020 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Any individual, partnership, corporation, or other entity engaged in
the alarm business in the city shall apply to the licensing division of the
city for a license to operate. Applications shall be on a form to be furnished
by the division and signed by the individual proprietor of the business, by a
partner, or by the proper corporate officer, as is appropriate for the form of
the business seeking a license. The application shall include the following
items:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the alarm business and
type of business entity it is (individual, partnership, or corporate);
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the individual
proprietor, partners or directors, principal officers, and all employees,
depending on the nature of the entity applying;
      (3)   A description of the alarm systems and devices offered for sale or
lease to the public, and a description of any services related to alarm devices
offered to the public;
      (4)   A list of all felony and misdemeanor convictions of individual
proprietors, partners, employees, directors, or principal shareholders of the
applicant business. The date and location of each conviction shall also be
included;
      (5)   A statement as to whether the applicant has ever been denied a
license or permit in any jurisdiction to engage in the alarm business or has
had a license or permit revoked;
      (6)   A statement as to the length of time the applicant has been engaged
in the alarm business and where engaged;
      (7)   A statement that the applicant agrees to update the above
information upon application for renewal of an alarm license at least every
year, as provided in §
94.022; and
      (8)   A statement that all equipment complies with U.L., N.S.P.A., F.M.,
or equal standards, and that all installations comply with the National
Electrical Code and the electrical code of the city.
   (B)   A license application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of
an amount as set by the city from time to time to cover the cost to the city to
process the application as described herein.
   (C)   Any alarm business which installs or maintains an alarm system, a
sprinkler system, or a fire suppression system within the city must be licensed
and bonded in the state.
(Prior Code, § 94.20) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.021 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The ECC Administrator shall review each application for a license and
shall conduct an investigation to determine whether the facts set forth in the
application are true. He or she shall, within 60 days after receipt of an
application for a license, either approve or deny issuance of the license and,
accordingly, forward written notification to the applicant of the decision. A
written notification of denial shall include the basis for this finding and if
the grounds for denial are subject to correction, the applicant shall be given
ten days after receipt of the notice within which to make the required
correction.
   (B)   The ECC Administrator shall deny the application for an alarm business
license if he or she finds that the applicant or the individual having the
authority and the responsibility for the management and operation of the
applicant’s alarm business within the city or any of the applicant’s owners,
partners, employees, or principal corporate shareholders have performed any of
the following acts:
      (1)   Committed any act which if committed by a licensee would be grounds
for revocation of a license under §
94.022(B);
      (2)   While unlicensed, knowingly and wilfully committed, or aided and
abetted in the commission of any act for which a license is required by
statute; and
      (3)   Been convicted in any jurisdiction of a felony or misdemeanor, if
this conviction reflects unfavorably on the fitness of the applicant to engage
in the alarm business.
(Prior Code, § 94.21) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989)
§ 94.022 LICENSE RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   Application for renewal of an alarm business license shall be made
each year within 30 days immediately preceding June 1, and shall be accompanied
by a nonrefundable fee in an amount as set by the city from time to time.
Applicants for renewal may continue to do business while the renewal
application is being processed.
   (B)   Licenses for alarm businesses shall not be renewed by the ECC Alarm
Administrator, in the manner hereinafter set forth, if the licensee or any of
its owners, partners, principal corporate officers, or the individual having
authority and the responsibility for the management and operation of the alarm
business within the city are found to have done any of the following acts:
      (1)   Violated any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly or intentionally given any false information of a
material nature in connection with the application for a license; a renewal or
reinstatement of a license; or a notice of transfer of an alarm business
license under this chapter;
      (3)   Have been convicted in any jurisdiction of a felony or misdemeanor
if the conviction reflects unfavorably on the fitness of the applicant to
engage in the alarm business; and
      (4)   Have committed any act while the license was not in effect, which
could be cause for the revocation of a license or grounds for denial of an
application for a license.
(Prior Code, § 94.22) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989)
§ 94.023 LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
assigned or transferred either by operation of law or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 94.23) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.024 INFORMATION TO BE SUPPLIED TO CONSUMER.
   Every alarm business selling, leasing, or furnishing to any user an alarm
system which is installed on premises located in the city shall furnish to the
user instructions that provide information to enable the user to operate the
alarm system properly and to obtain service for the alarm system at any time.
(Prior Code, § 94.24) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
94.999
ALARM USERS
§ 94.035 PERMITS REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Every alarm user in the city shall apply to the licensing division of
the city for an alarm user permit for each system used.
   (B)   Application for an alarm user’s permit shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable fee in an amount as set by the city from time to time for each
application on behalf of a user in a residential building, and another amount
as set by the city from time to time for each application in behalf of a
nonresidential building. The alarm user’s permit application shall include the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the protected business,
home, and the like;
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the alarm company which
installed or maintains the applicant’s alarm system and three responsible
individuals who can be contacted by the ECC dispatchers, if need be;
      (3)   In the case of a business entity, the names, addresses, and
telephone numbers of three responsible employees of the business who can be
contacted by the ECC dispatchers if need be; and
      (4)   Information required in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) above shall be
updated as required by changed circumstances.
   (C)   An alarm user which is a governmental political unit shall be subject
to the provisions of this section and §§
94.036 through
94.038 and
94.038 through
94.050.
(Prior Code, § 94.35) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.036 PERMIT RENEWAL.
   (A)   Application for the renewal of an alarm user’s permit shall be made
every year within 30 days immediately preceding June 1, and shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of an amount as set by the city from time to
time for each application on behalf of a use in a residential building and
another amount as set by the city from time to time for each application on
behalf of a nonresidential building.
   (B)   A late charge in an amount as set by the city from time to time will
be charged in addition to the fees provided in §
94.035(B) and division (A) above to an alarm user who is more than 60 days
delinquent in renewing a permit.
(Prior Code, § 94.36) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989)
§ 94.037 AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICES; LOCAL ALARMS.
   (A)   Automatic dialing devices, as defined in §
94.003, shall not be connected to the primary trunk line of the ECC.
   (B)   Local alarms shall not resemble the sound of any emergency signal or
civil defense alarm or siren. All local alarms shall have the capacity to reset
themselves after 15 minutes.
   (C)   Provisions outlined in divisions (A) and (B) above are in addition to
those provisions of this chapter which are applicable to all alarm users, alarm
businesses, and alarm systems.
(Prior Code, § 94.37) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.038 FALSE ALARMS; NOTICE OF FINES.
   (A)   Any alarm user who has false alarms on more than 12 occasions in any
permit year for each 100 alarm devices installed and operable in the alarm
user’s facility shall be fined according to the following table for each false
alarm in excess of eight occurring within the same permit year. The following
fines are subject to change at the discretion of the city.
 
Number of False Alarms per 100 Alarm Devices Fine per Alarm
1 through 12                                 None
13 through 24                                $25
25 through 36                                $50
37 through 48                                $75
49 and above                                 $100
 
   (B)   A fine shall be due and payable by the alarm user within ten days
after written notice of the violation is received by the alarm user. Any alarm
user who does not pay his or her fine within the time prescribed shall also be
subject to revocation of his or her permit, pursuant to §
94.050.
   (C)   All fines shall be payable to the city and fines collected shall be
deposited in the city’s General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 94.38) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
94.999
PERMIT REVOCATION
§ 94.050 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The ECC Administrator may revoke any permit issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter upon a finding of any one or more of the following
violations:
      (1)   Providing false information in an application for issuance or
renewal of an alarm system permit;
      (2)   Failure to comply with any provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Installation, maintenance, or operation of an alarm system in a
manner contrary to the terms of this chapter or contrary to any term or
condition of the permit granting authority;
      (4)   Failure to timely pay any fine charged pursuant to this chapter;
and
      (5)   Excessive false alarms.
   (B)   Before exercising his or her power to revoke any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter, the ECC Administrator shall first give written notice
to the alarm user describing therein the violation and advising the alarm user
that:
      (1)   He or she shall have a reasonable time, not exceeding ten days to
cure the defect of effect compliance; or
      (2)   He or she shall provide to the ECC Administrator information as he
or she, the alarm user, believes will excuse or justify the alleged violation.
(Prior Code, § 94.50) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.051 REVIEW HEARING; ALARM BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Any alarm user suffering revocation of his or her permit may appeal
the decision of the ECC Administrator by filing a written request for a
hearing, within ten days after the decision of the ECC Alarm Administrator is
announced, with the Alarm Board of Appeals.
      (1)   The Alarm Board of Appeals shall consist of the following:
         (a)   Any two of the three members of the Board of Public Works; and
         (b)   One individual appointed by the Common Council of the city.
      (2)   If a hearing before the Alarm Board of Appeals is requested,
written notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be served upon the
alarm user requesting the hearing by either the ECC Alarm Administrator or the
Alarm Board of Appeals by first class mail at least ten days prior to the date
set for hearing.
      (3)   The Alarm Board of Appeals shall meet at times and places as
determined by the Board and the action of the Board shall be by majority vote
of members present and voting.
   (B)   At the hearing before the Alarm Board of Appeals the ECC Administrator
and the alarm user shall have the right and opportunity to present written and
oral evidence.
   (C)   The Alarm Board of Appeals shall review the decision of the ECC
Administrator, the record of the proceedings and new information presented at
the hearing and shall affirm, modify, or reverse the decision of the ECC
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 94.51) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989)
§ 94.052 EFFECT OF REVOCATION.
   (A)   If the alarm user does not appeal the revocation decision of the ECC
Alarm Administrator or if the Alarm Board of Appeals affirms the revocation
decision of the ECC Administrator, the alarm user, upon receipt of notice of
revocation or notice of affirmation of revocation, shall immediately
discontinue use of the alarm system.
   (B)   An alarm user whose permit has been revoked may apply for a new user’s
permit as provided in §
94.035.
(Prior Code, § 94.52) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
94.999
§ 94.999 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates a section or provision within this chapter shall be fined
not more than an amount as set by the city from time to time. Each day that
there is a failure or omission to comply with any section or provision of this
chapter shall constitute a separate and distinct violation thereof.
(Prior Code, § 94.99) (Ord. 3483, passed - -1989)
CHAPTER 95: AIR POLLUTION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.001   Definitions
   
95.002   Purpose of chapter
   
95.003   Territorial jurisdiction of chapter
   
95.004   Adopted standards or recommended practices
   
95.005   Effect of state and federal regulations on chapter
   
95.006   Implementing state episode alert plan
   
95.007   Internal combustion engines
   
95.008   Sealing of violating equipment
   
95.009   Conduct of persons acting on behalf of city
   
95.010   Right of entry for inspections
   
95.011   Liability for violations of chapter
   
95.012   Party to claims or actions
   
95.013   Notice of violation
Department of Air Quality Control
   
95.025   Administration and enforcement of chapter
   
95.026   Director of Air Quality Control; generally
   
95.027   Director of Air Quality Control; powers and duties
   
95.028   Air Pollution Inspectors
   
95.029   Examination and approval of plans for certain equipment
   
95.030   Conflicts of interest of employees
Air Quality Control Advisory and Appeal Board
   
95.045   Chairperson
   
95.046   Composition; terms of office of members; vacancies
   
95.047   Appointment of members; duties
   
95.048   Compensation of members; secretarial duties
   
95.049   Meetings
   
95.050   Powers
   
95.051   Appeals
Installation Permits
   
95.065   Required; application contents
   
95.066   Affidavit for secret process
   
95.067   Approval; issuance generally
   
95.068   Duration
   
95.069   Certificate of compliance
   
95.070   Issuance prerequisite to building permit
   
95.071   Emergency repairs
   
95.072   Compliance with permits
   
95.073   Inspections; certificate of operation
   
95.074   Renewal of certificate of operation
   
95.075   Effect on prosecution of violation of chapter
   
95.076   Exemptions from subchapter
   
95.077   Registration of points of emission
Fees
   
95.090   Generally
   
95.091   Inspection; installation permit
   
95.092   Certificate of operation
   
95.093   Exemptions as to domestic refuse burning equipment
Emission Standards
   
95.105   Visible emissions
   
95.106   Emission of particulate matter; fuel burning equipment
   
95.107   Emission of particulate matter; incinerators
   
95.108   Emission of particulate matter; industrial process equipment
   
95.109   Stored petroleum and other volatile organic materials
   
95.110   Loading volatile petroleum distillates into tanks, trucks, or other
vehicles
   
95.111   Sulfur dioxide emissions from nonferrous smelters
   
95.112   Nitrogen oxides emission limitations
   
95.113   Circumvention
   
95.114   Report of equipment breakdown
   
95.115   Report of discontinued or dismantled equipment
   
95.116   Violations
Open Burning
   
95.130   Definition
   
95.131   Prohibition
   
95.132   Exemptions
   
95.133   Variances
   
95.134   Conditions applicable to exemptions and variances
   
95.135   Enforcement
   
95.136   Permits
   
95.137   Certain fires permitted
   
95.138   Salvage operation
Sulfur Oxides
   
95.150   Generally
   
95.151   Limitations on fuel sulfur content generally
   
95.152   Emissions from single stacks
   
95.153   Records of fuel analyses and usage
   
95.154   Sulfuric acid manufacturing processes
   
95.155   Hydrogen sulfide
Sampling and Testing
   
95.170   Authority to conduct tests
   
95.171   Test facilities and access
   
95.172   Stack emission test method
   
95.173   Fuel samples
   
95.174   Emission monitoring
   
95.175   Tampering with testing devices
Variances in General
   
95.190   Compliance schedule
   
95.191   Specific variances enumerated
 
   
95.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR CONTAMINANT. Any smoke, soot, fly ash, dust, cinders, dirt, noxious, or
obnoxious acids, fumes, oxides, gases, vapors, odors, toxic, or radioactive
substances, waste, particulate, solid, liquid, or gaseous matter or any other
materials in the outdoor atmosphere, but excluding uncombined water.
   AIR POLLUTION. The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of one or more
contaminants or combinations thereof in quantities and of a duration that they
are or may tend to be injurious to human, plant, or animal life or property, or
that interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property or the
conduct of business.
   ASHES. Cinders, fly ash, or any other solid material resulting from
combustion, and may include unburned combustibles.
   ASME. The American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing Materials.
   BOARD. The Board created by this chapter to act as the Air Quality Control
Advisory and Appeal Board to the Director and to act as provided for pursuant
to §§
95.045 to
95.050.
   CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION. A certificate issued by the Director authorizing
the use of any process, fuel burning, refuse burning, or control equipment for
the period indicated after it has been found that it can be operated in
compliance with this chapter.
   CLEANING FIRES. Act of removing ashes from the fuel bed or furnace.
   COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE. Any combustible waste material.
   CONTROL EQUIPMENT. Any equipment which has the function of regulating that
portion of a process, fuel burning, or refuse burning equipment which may
release air contaminants and thus reduce the creation of or the emission of air
contaminants to the atmosphere or both.
   DEPARTMENT. The Air Quality Control Department of the city.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Air Quality Control Department or his or her
authorized representatives.
   DOMESTIC HEATING PLANT. A plant generating heat for a single-family
residence or for two residences, either in duplex or double house form, or for
multiple-dwelling units having a total input of less than one million BTUs per
hour, provided, that the heating plant is for the single purpose of space
heating and the fuel used is gas or light fuel oils. Under this designation
are, also, hot water heaters, stoves, space-heaters, and other domestic
appliances used in connection with the foregoing establishments or to heat
temporary buildings; provided, that similar equipment used in multiple dwelling
units other than described in this chapter, or used in permanent buildings of
commercial or industrial establishments, is not to be construed as included
under this designation.
   DOMESTIC INCINERATOR OR REFUSE BURNING EQUIPMENT. Any refuse burning
equipment or incinerator which is portable, packaged, completely assembled, and
directly fed, having not over five cubic feet storage capacity or 25 pounds per
hour burning rate, designed to handle combustible refuse consisting of rubbish
and garbage by weight.
   EMISSION. The act of passing into the atmosphere of an air contaminant or
the material so passed to the atmosphere.
   FUEL BURNING EQUIPMENT. Any equipment, device, or contrivance used for the
burning of any fuel and all appurtenances thereto, including ducts, breechings,
control equipment, fuel feeding equipment, ash removal equipment, combustion
controls, stacks, chimneys, and the like, used for indirect heating in which
the material being heated is not contacted by and adds no substance to the
products of combustion. The EQUIPMENT typically includes that used for heating
water to boiling; raising or superheating steam; heating air, as in a warm air
furnace; furnishing process heat that is conducted through process vessel
walls; and furnishing process heat indirectly through its transfer by fluids.
   HAND-FIRED FUEL BURNING EQUIPMENT. Fuel burning equipment in which fuel is
manually introduced directly into the combustion chamber.
   INCINERATORS. All devices intended or used for the destruction of refuse or
other combustible refuse by burning.
   INSTALLATION PERMIT. A permit issued by the Director of the Air Quality
Control Department authorizing the construction, installation, or alteration of
any process, fuel burning, refuse burning, or control equipment in accordance
with plans and specifications approved by the Director of the Air Quality
Control Department.
   OPACITY. State of a substance which renders it partially or wholly
impervious to the rays of light. OPACITY as used in this chapter refers to the
obscuration of an observer’s view.
   OPEN BURNING. Any fire from which the products of combustion are emitted
directly into the outdoor atmosphere without passing through a stack.
   PARTICULATE MATTER. Material other than uncombined water which is suspended
in air or other gases as a liquid or solid.
   PROCESS EQUIPMENT. Any equipment, device, or contrivance for changing any
materials whatever or for storing or handling of any materials and all
appurtenances thereto, including ducts, stacks, and the like, the use or
existence of which may cause any discharge of air pollutants into the outdoor
atmosphere, but not including that equipment specifically defined as FUEL
BURNING EQUIPMENT or REFUSE BURNING EQUIPMENT in this section.
   PROCESS WEIGHT. The total weight of all materials introduced into a unit
operation or unit process, including solid fuels, but excluding liquid and
gaseous fuels when these are used solely as fuels and excluding air introduced
for purposes of combustion.
   PROCESS WEIGHT RATE. A rate established as follows:
      (1)   For continuous or long-run, steady-state unit operations or unit
process: the total process weight for the entire period of continuous operation
or for a typical portion thereof divided by the number of hours of the period
or portion thereof;
      (2)   For cyclical or batch unit operations or unit processes: the total
process weight for a period that covers a complete operation or an integral
number of cycles divided by the hours of actual process operation during the
period; and
      (3)   Where the nature of any process or operation or the design of any
equipment is such as to permit more than one interpretation of this definition,
the interpretation that results in the minimum value for allowable emission
shall apply.
   REFUSE BURNING EQUIPMENT. Any incinerator, equipment, device, or contrivance
used for the destruction of refuse or other combustible wastes by burning, and
all appurtenances thereto.
   SALVAGE OPERATIONS. Any operation conducted in whole or in part for the
salvaging or reclaiming of any product or material.
   SEAL FOR SEALING EQUIPMENT OR PREMISES. A device installed by the Director
of the Air Quality Control Department that prevents use of the process, fuel
burning, refuse burning, or control equipment or premises causing the violation
or from which violations of this chapter originate.
   SMOKE. Small gas borne particles resulting from incomplete combustion,
consisting predominantly, but not exclusively, of carbon, ash, and other
combustible materials.
   STACK. Duct, chimney, flue, conduit, vent, exhaust, breeching, or any
structure or opening arranged for the emission into the outdoor atmosphere of
air pollutants.
   TOTAL PLANT. A facility or installation that is comprised of one or more
fuel burning units, incinerators, or processes that are located at a single
site or in one enclosure and that is usually served internally by common
utilities and control systems, storage equipment, and other related facilities.
   UNIT OPERATION. Methods where raw materials undergo physical change; methods
by which raw materials may be altered into different states, such as a vapor,
liquid, or solid, without changing into a new substance with different
properties and composition.
   UNIT PROCESS. Reactions where raw materials undergo chemical change; where
one or more raw materials are combined and completely changed into a new
substance with different properties and composition.
(Prior Code, § 102.001)
§ 95.002 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter is designed to control air pollution by establishing the
Department of Air Quality Control in the city and prescribing the duties of the
Director of Air Quality Control, empowering investigation and abatement by the
Director of violations of this chapter, providing for the establishment and
enforcement of rules and regulations, providing for an Air Quality Control
Advisory and Appeal Board, providing for registration of air pollution sources,
permits for the installation, construction, addition to, alteration, and use of
process, fuel burning, refuse burning, and control equipment and for the
issuance of certificates of operation and for fees therefor, establishing
limitations upon the emission of air pollutants, declaring emissions which do
not meet the limitations to be unlawful and a public nuisance, prohibiting
certain acts causing air pollution, providing for fines and penalties for
violation of the provisions of this chapter, and providing just and adequate
means by which the provisions of this chapter may be executed
(Prior Code, § 102.002)
§ 95.003 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall be effective territorially throughout the city.
(Prior Code, § 102.003)
§ 95.004 ADOPTED STANDARDS OR RECOMMENDED PRACTICES.
   (A)   Where reference is made in this chapter to the standards or
recommended practices of national technical societies, associations, or other
organizations, the information shall form and be considered an integral part of
the chapter in the same manner and extent as if fully reproduced therein.
   (B)   Not less than two copies of the standards or recommended practices of
technical societies, associations, or other organizations shall be kept on file
at all times in the office of the Director and shall be available for
consultation by the public.
(Prior Code, § 102.004)
§ 95.005 EFFECT OF STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS ON CHAPTER.
   Whenever rules and regulations are adopted and promulgated in accordance
with provisions stipulated in the Federal Register or by the State Air
Pollution Control Board, which rules and regulations are more restrictive than
the provisions of this chapter, then the rules and regulations shall be
considered an integral part of this chapter in the same manner and extent as if
fully reproduced herein.
(Prior Code, § 102.005)
§ 95.006 IMPLEMENTING STATE EPISODE ALERT PLAN.
   Whenever atmospheric and pollution conditions create circumstances which may
cause acute harmful health effects, the Director shall implement the state air
pollution episode alert plan, which sets the standard for ambient air quality
concentration for suspended particulate matter and sulfur dioxide for air
pollution episode alert plan levels, as promulgated by the State Air Pollution
Control Board, as amended from time to time. The Director is empowered to adopt
plans as may be necessitated in cooperation with appropriate state and federal
authorities for the purpose of eliminating the circumstances tending to cause
acute harmful health effects, including but not limited to, the implementation
of an air pollution watch and alert procedure and emergency procedure.
(Prior Code, § 102.006)
§ 95.007 INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES.
   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon any street, highway,
public place, or private premises within the city any internal combustion
engine, while stationary or moving, which emits, from any source of emission
whatsoever, any air contaminant for a period aggregating more than three
minutes in any one hour which is:
   (A)   Darker in shade than that designated as No. 1 on the Ringlemann Chart,
as published by the United States Bureau of Mines; and
   (B)   Of an opacity as to obscure an observer’s view to a degree equal to or
greater than does smoke described in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 102.007) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.008 SEALING OF VIOLATING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   After previous notification of three or more violations of this
chapter within a 12-month period, in respect to the emission of air
contaminants, a violator shall be notified by registered mail to show cause
before the Director within ten days why the offending equipment shall not be
sealed.
      (2)   The notice shall be directed to the last address of the person to
be notified or, if the person or his or her whereabouts are unknown, then the
notice shall be posted on or near the premises at which the violations have
occurred.
   (B)   (1)   If upon the hearing, at which the violator or his or her agent
or attorney may appear and be heard, the Director finds that adequate
corrective measures have not been taken, he or she shall seal the equipment
until a time as corrective measures are taken.
      (2)   The decision may be appealed to the Advisory and Appeal Board, and
the appeal shall stay the sealing until the Board renders a decision.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to break a seal that has been duly
affixed by the Director or his or her authorized representative unless
authorized in writing by the Director to do so.
(Prior Code, § 102.008) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.009 CONDUCT OF PERSONS ACTING ON BEHALF OF CITY.
   No person acting on behalf of the city under the provisions of this chapter
shall take or receive any money or any valuable thing for the purpose of
deceiving, defrauding, or favoring any person.
(Prior Code, § 102.009) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.010 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTIONS.
   Any person who in any manner hinders, obstructs, delays, resists, prevents,
or in any manner interferes or attempts to interfere with the Director or his
or her authorized representatives in the performance of any duty enjoined or
shall refuse to permit the Director or persons to perform their duty by
refusing either of them entrance at reasonable hours to any premises in which
the provisions of this chapter are being violated or are suspected of being
violated or refuse to permit the inspection or examination of the premises for
the purposes of the enforcement of this chapter shall be subject to the fines
and penalties provided in §
95.999.
(Prior Code, § 102.010) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.011 LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS OF CHAPTER.
   All persons owning, operating, or in charge or control of any equipment or
premises who shall cause, suffer, allow, permit, or participate in any
violation of this chapter shall be individually and collectively liable for any
penalties imposed by this chapter. This liability shall include any person who
shall refuse to comply with or who shall assist in the violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 102.011)
§ 95.012 PARTY TO CLAIMS OR ACTIONS.
   All claims or actions filed by or against the Director or the Air Quality
Control Advisory and Appeal Board shall be brought in the name of or filed
against the city as a municipal corporation.
(Prior Code, § 102.012)
§ 95.013 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   If the Director has reason to believe an emission from any source violates
the provisions of §§
95.105 to
95.116,
95.130 to
95.138, and
95.150 to
95.155, he or she may, instead of acting under §
95.999, issue to the owner or operator of the source in question a violation
notice.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who is issued a violation notice may, within 15 days
from the date of receipt of the notice, submit data to the Director indicating
reasons why he or she does not believe he or she was in violation of §§
95.105 to
95.116,
95.130 to
95.138, and
95.150 to
95.155.
      (2)   The Director shall review the data submitted and, within 15 days,
either affirm or withdraw the violation notice by informing, in writing, the
person receiving the notice of the decision to affirm or withdraw.
      (3)   In the case where the data is not submitted to the Director within
the 15 days stipulated, the violation shall be considered still in force and
affirmed.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of a violation of §§
95.105 to
95.116,
95.130 to
95.138, and
95.150 to
95.155, the person cited, within ten days of receipt of the Director’s decision
to affirm the violation notice or within ten days of a decision of the Advisory
and Appeals Board if appeal is taken from the Director’s decision to affirm the
violation notice, may ask that emission tests be performed to determine the
extent of emissions from the operation which is the subject of the particulate
emission violation notice.
      (2)   If the emission tests indicate that the total amount of particulate
matter exceeds the maximum allowable emission standard applicable to the
operation under §§
95.105 to
95.116,
95.130 to
95.138, and
95.150 to
95.155, the violation notice shall be considered substantiated.
      (3)   If the emission tests indicate that the total amount of particular
matter is equal to or less than the emission standard applicable to the
operation under §§
95.105 to
95.116,
95.130 to
95.138, and
95.150 to
95.155, then the violation notice shall be considered void.
(Prior Code, § 102.013)
DEPARTMENT OF AIR QUALITY CONTROL
§ 95.025 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   The administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be conducted by the
Department of Air Quality Control, which shall be headed by a Director.
(Prior Code, § 102.025)
§ 95.026 DIRECTOR OF AIR QUALITY CONTROL; GENERALLY.
   (A)   There is created in the Department of Air Quality Control and position
of Director of Air Quality Control, which Director shall be appointed by the
Mayor.
   (B)   The Director of Air Quality Control shall be qualified by technical
training and have at least three years experience in the theory and practice of
construction and operation of furnaces, combustion devices, or in the theory
and practice of air quality control, and shall be qualified by education and
experience to cooperate with scientific, educational, and civic organizations
interested in air quality control.
(Prior Code, § 102.026)
§ 95.027 DIRECTOR OF AIR QUALITY CONTROL; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director of Air Quality Control shall perform duties as may be
required of him or her relative to air quality control. He or she shall have
control of all matters and things pertaining to the work of the Department and
shall supervise the execution of all laws, rules, and regulations pertaining to
air pollution, as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The Director of Air Quality Control shall also perform the following
duties and have the following powers:
      (1)   Institute complaints against all persons violating any provision of
this chapter and refer to the City Attorney all matters which require legal
proceedings to prosecute violations of this chapter and compel the prevention
and abatement of air pollution or nuisances arising therefrom;
      (2)   Examine plans for all new buildings and for the alteration of all
existing buildings, structures, and equipment, which may cause the issuance of
air contaminants, in order to assure that they can comply with the rules and
regulations of this chapter;
      (3)   Examine and approve or disapprove the plans for fuel and refuse
burning equipment, process equipment, and control equipment to be installed,
constructed, reconstructed, or altered or added to;
      (4)   Make inspections and tests of existing and newly installed,
repaired, constructed, reconstructed, or altered fuel or refuse burning
equipment, process equipment, and control equipment;
      (5)   Investigate complaints of violations of this chapter and make
inspections and observations of air pollution conditions. Record the
investigations, complaints, inspections, and observations;
      (6)   Approve or reject applications for permits and administer the
issuance of certificates of operation, notices, or other matters required under
the provisions of this chapter;
      (7)   Prepare and place before the Advisory and Appeal Board, for their
consideration, proposals for additions or revisions to this chapter or any
other regulation pertaining to air pollution abatement;
      (8)   Encourage voluntary cooperation by persons or affected groups in
the preservation and restoration of the purity of the outdoor atmosphere and
grant a reasonable time to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (9)   Collect and disseminate information on air quality control;
      (10)   Work with planning and zoning agencies for the purpose of
coordinating activities under provisions of this chapter and foster the best
possible management of the air resources;
      (11)   Cooperate and work with federal, interstate, state, county,
district, municipal, and other agencies concerned with air pollution with
regard to aerometric studies, abatement programs, public complaints, and other
matters to the end that the air resources of the city and the county shall be
best conserved and improved;
      (12)   Recommend needful rules and regulations pertaining to the
administration of this chapter;
      (13)   Issue all permits, certificates, notices, or other matters
required under the provisions of this chapter, prepare and maintain adequate
records thereof and notify all persons concerned of any decision he or she may
render and provide persons with an opportunity to be heard as herein set forth;
      (14)   Report to the Mayor and the Air Quality Control Advisory and
Appeal Board with respect to recommendations for needed additions or revisions
of this chapter;
      (15)   Do any and all acts which may be necessary for the successful
prosecution of the purpose of this chapter and any other acts as may be
specifically enumerated herein as his or her duties;
      (16)   Enlist the cooperation of the public in the abatement of air
pollution; and
      (17)   Refer the matters to the municipal Board of Health which may
require its attention or assistance.
(Prior Code, § 102.027)
§ 95.028 AIR POLLUTION INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Air Pollution Inspectors shall be employees of the Air Quality Control
Department, qualified by technical training in the theory and practice of the
construction and operation of combustion and process equipment or in the theory
and practice of smoke abatement and air quality control.
   (B)   The duties of the Air Pollution Inspectors shall be to carry out the
directions of the Director of Air Quality Control in all matters relating to
enforcement of this chapter and to aid and assist the Director in the efficient
discharge of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 102.028)
§ 95.029 EXAMINATION AND APPROVAL OF PLANS FOR CERTAIN EQUIPMENT.
   No employee shall recommend the issuance of any operating permit or
certificate of operation without having thoroughly examined and approved the
plans for fuel burning or process equipment so approved or certified.
(Prior Code, § 102.029)
§ 95.030 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST OF EMPLOYEES.
   No person employed in the Department of Air Quality Control shall be,
directly or indirectly, interested in the manufacture, lease, or sale of fuel,
combustion, or process equipment, gas cleaning devices, other smoke abatement
or air pollution control equipment or the apparatus or devices connected
therewith or any extensions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 102.030)
AIR QUALITY CONTROL ADVISORY AND APPEAL BOARD
§ 95.045 CHAIRPERSON.
   (A)   The Air Quality Control Advisory and Appeal Board shall elect its own
Chairperson.
   (B)   The Board shall meet at the call of the Chairperson, who shall be
elected by the Board at the first meeting of each year.
   (C)   No Chairperson shall serve for more than two consecutive terms.
(Prior Code, § 102.045)
§ 95.046 COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE OF MEMBERS; VACANCIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Air Quality Advisory and Appeal Board shall consist of not
less than seven members. Not more than two members of the Board shall hold any
public office. The two ex officio members of the Board shall be the Building
Commissioner and one member of the Common Council, who shall be named by the
President of the Council.
      (2)   The remaining members of the Board shall include a chemist or an
engineer, at least one physician licensed to practice medicine in the state and
at least one attorney licensed to practice law in the state.
   (B)   The Director of Air Quality Control shall be an ex officio member of
the Board without the right to vote.
   (C)   Two members shall be appointed for a term of one year, two members for
a term of two years and the remainder for a term of three years.
   (D)   (1)   Upon expiration of any term all succeeding terms shall be for a
term of three years.
      (2)   This provision shall be implemented by the Mayor on future
replacements or vacancies so as to provide for qualified members in an orderly
transition from the previous method of appointing Board members.
      (3)   The Mayor shall also appoint additional members to fill all
vacancies.
(Prior Code, § 102.046)
§ 95.047 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   An Air Quality Control Advisory and Appeal Board shall be
appointed by the Mayor. The Director of Air Quality Control may make
recommendations to the Mayor for the appointments.
      (2)   The Board shall study the problem of air quality control within the
city and shall, from time to time, recommend to the Director appropriate means
of air pollution abatement, including needed additions to or revisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Air Quality Control Advisory and Appeal Board shall confer with
and advise the Director on needed revisions or additions to this chapter or any
other ordinance pertaining to air pollution or rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder and on any matters concerning air pollution abatement or
control.
(Prior Code, § 102.047)
§ 95.048 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS; SECRETARIAL DUTIES.
   All members shall serve without compensation, and all secretarial duties of
the Board shall be performed by the Secretary of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 102.048)
§ 95.049 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Air Quality Control Advisory and Appeal Board shall hold a regular
meeting at least quarterly and other meetings at additional times as may be
called by the Chairperson.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall call a special meeting upon the written request
of at least three members of the Board or on the written request of the
Director.
   (C)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings which shall clearly
show the official actions of the Board and the vote of any member.
   (D)   All meetings and hearings of the Board shall be open to the public.
   (E)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members of the Air Quality
and Control Advisory and Appeal Board.
(Prior Code, § 102.049)
§ 95.050 POWERS.
   The Air Quality Control Advisory and Appeal Board is vested with the
following jurisdiction and authority:
   (A)   To decide appeals from any decision, ruling, regulation,
determination, or order made by the Director of Air Quality Control under this
chapter, or failure to act upon request within a reasonable period of the
directive in the manner and subject to the standards set out in this chapter;
   (B)   To pass upon applications for extensions of time for compliance or for
exemptions of variances in the manner of and subject to §§
95.190 and
95.191; and
   (C)   To decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is required to
pass under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 102.050)
§ 95.051 APPEALS.
   (A)   Persons who desire to take exception to any decision, ruling,
regulation, or order of the Director of Air Quality Control may appeal to the
Air Quality Control Advisory and Appeal Board. The appeal shall be taken within
15 days after receiving notice of decision, ruling, or order complained of by
filing with the Director a written notice of appeal directed to the Board
specifying the grounds thereof and the relief sought. A fee of an amount as set
by the city from time to time shall be posted by the appellant with the
Director at the time of the filing of the appeal to cover the costs of the
hearing on appeal, which fee shall not be refundable. The Director shall
forthwith furnish to the Advisory and Appeal Board all the papers in his or her
possession relative to the matter on appeal. Within ten days after the date of
filing of the notice of appeal, the Board shall set a date for the hearing and
shall give notice thereof by mail to the interested parties. The Board may, in
its discretion, grant continuances. An appeal shall act as a stay of the
decision, ruling, requirement, rule, regulation, or order in question until the
Board has taken final action on the appeal. At the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or attorney and present both written and oral
evidence pertinent to the questions and issues involved and may examine and
cross-examine witnesses. All testimony shall be given under oath. The Board,
after the hearing, shall affirm, modify, or reverse the decision, ruling,
requirement, rule, regulation, or order of the Director or order him or her to
act. The decision of the Board shall be binding on the Director and appellant,
unless reversed by a court of competent jurisdiction upon judicial review.
   (B)   The procedural provisions of the I.C. 4-21.5-5 and all amendments and
modifications thereof and the procedural rules adopted pursuant thereto shall
apply and govern all proceedings for the judicial review of final
administrative decisions under this chapter and are adopted and incorporated
herein by reference. References in the act to an agency of the state shall be
deemed references to the Air Pollution Advisory and Appeal Board of the city,
and references in an act to the Attorney General shall be deemed references to
the City Attorney.
   (C)   The Advisory and Appeal Board, at its expense, shall provide a court
reporter to take the testimony and preserve a record of all proceedings before
the Board. The notice of appeal, the notice of hearing, all exhibits,
documents, pleadings, and written motions filed or admitted as evidence in the
proceedings, the transcript of testimony adduced and the findings of fact and
decisions shall constitute the complete and exclusive record of the hearing.
Any party to a hearing may obtain a typewritten transcript of the record at his
or her own expense.
   (D)   The Advisory and Appeal Board shall not be required to certify and
record or file any answer or otherwise appear in any proceeding for judicial
review unless the party filing the appeal deposits the sum of an amount as set
by the city from time to time per page. which includes costs of certification.
Failure on the part of the appellant to make deposits shall be grounds for
dismissal of the action. Upon judicial review, the Secretary of the Advisory
and Appeal Board shall certify the record.
(Prior Code, § 102.051)
INSTALLATION PERMITS
§ 95.065 REQUIRED; APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   No person shall construct, install, reconstruct, or alter any process,
fuel burning, refuse burning, or control equipment that may be a source of air
contaminant for use within the city until an application, including not less
than two sets of properly prepared plans and specifications of the process,
fuel burning, refuse burning, or control equipment, and structures or buildings
used in connection therewith, has been filed by the person or his or her agent
in the office of the Director and has been approved by the Director and until
an installation permit has been issued by the Director for the construction,
installation, or alteration, except as stated in §
95.069.
   (B)   If requested by the Director of Air Quality Control, the plans or
specifications mentioned in division (A) above shall show the form and
dimensions of the process, fuel burning, refuse burning, or control equipment,
together with the description and dimensions of the building or part thereof in
which the process, fuel burning, refuse burning, or control equipment is to be
located, including the means provided for admitting the air for combustion
processes; the character of the fuel to be used; the maximum quantity of the
fuel to be burned per hour, the kind and amount of raw materials processed; the
expected air contaminant emission rate; the operating requirements; the use to
be made of a process, fuel burning, refuse burning, or control equipment:
contaminant concentration, gas volume, and gas temperature at the emission
point; physical characteristics of particulates emitted; the location and
elevation of the emission point relative to nearby structures, window openings,
and the like; a flow diagram showing the equipment under consideration and its
relationship to other processes, if any, and a general description of these
processes; and any other reasonable and pertinent information that may be
required by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 102.065)
§ 95.066 AFFIDAVIT FOR SECRET PROCESS.
   If the applicant for an installation permit deems the process or equipment
to be secret, he or she may file, with the approval of the Director, an
affidavit to the effect that the equipment or process will be so used as to
comply with all of the other provisions of this chapter. Plans and
specifications filed with an affidavit will remain the property of the
applicant and shall only be for the confidential use of the Director, the
Control Board and their representatives, unless the owner or operator shall
expressly agree to their publication or availability to the general public.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the use of records or
information by any department, agency, or officer of the city in compiling or
publishing analyses or summaries relating to the general condition of the
ambient atmosphere; provided, that the analyses or summaries do not identify,
directly or indirectly, any owner or operator or reveal any information
otherwise confidential under this section.
(Prior Code, § 102.066)
§ 95.067 APPROVAL; ISSUANCE GENERALLY.
   An application shall be acted on within 30 calendar days after it is filed
in the office of the Director. The Director shall notify the applicant, in
writing. Upon the approval of the application and upon the payment of the
prescribed fees, the Director shall issue a permit for the construction,
installation, or alteration of the process, fuel burning, refuse burning, or
control equipment.
(Prior Code, § 102.067)
§ 95.068 DURATION.
   If construction, installation, reconstruction, or alteration is not
completed within one year of the date of the installation permit or within the
period of time specified in the permit, the permit shall become void and all
fees shall be forfeited, unless an extension of time is warranted and granted
by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 102.068)
§ 95.069 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   In the event the plans, specifications, and information submitted to the
Director, pursuant to §
95.065, reveal a proposal to construct, install, reconstruct, or alter any
process, fuel burning, refuse burning, or control equipment of the complex
design or involving technological ingenuity or advances of considerable
magnitude, the Director may, at his or her option, and in lieu of issuing an
installation permit, require the applicant to file with the Director a
statement certifying that the proposed equipment or installation will comply
with all of the applicable provisions and limitations set forth in this
chapter. Upon the filing of the certificate of compliance, the applicant may
proceed with the proposed installation, subject to all of the provisions of §
95.068.
(Prior Code, § 102.069)
§ 95.070 ISSUANCE PREREQUISITE TO BUILDING PERMIT.
   No permit for the erection, construction, or alteration of any building,
plant, or structure, which is related in any manner to fuel burning equipment
or processing equipment, which may be a source of air contaminants, shall be
issued by the Building Commissioner or by any department, bureau, division,
officer, or employee of the city until the Director of the Air Quality Control
Department has issued an installation permit covering the equipment under his
or her jurisdiction to be used in the building, plant, or structure, as
provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 102.070)
§ 95.071 EMERGENCY REPAIRS.
   An emergency repair may be made prior to the application for an installation
permit if serious air pollution consequences may result if the repair were
deferred. When the repair is made, the person concerned shall file an
application for an installation permit if directed to do so by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 102.071)
§ 95.072 COMPLIANCE WITH PERMITS.
   (A)   No construction, installation, reconstruction, or alteration shall be
made which is not in accordance with the plans, specifications, and other
pertinent information upon which the installation permit was issued without the
written approval of the Director.
   (B)   Violation of the installation permit shall be sufficient cause for the
Director to stop all work in connection with the permit, and he or she is
hereby authorized to seal the installation. No further work shall be done until
the Director is assured that the condition in question will be corrected and
that the work will proceed in accordance with the installation permit.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the various departments, bureaus, divisions,
officers, and employees of the city, having charge of the inspection of the
premises in which the equipment is located, to cooperate with the Director in
determining that the execution of the work so authorized by the installation
permit shall be done in conformity with the approved plans and specifications
that are approved and fixed by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 102.072)
§ 95.073 INSPECTIONS; CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any process, fuel
burning, refuse burning, or control equipment or any equipment pertaining
thereto for which an installation permit was required or was issued under this
subchapter until an inspection has been made by the Director. The person
responsible for the installation, construction, or alteration of any process,
fuel burning, or control equipment for which an installation permit is required
shall notify the Director when the work is completed and ready for final
inspection.
   (B)   On all new or modified processes, fuel burning, refuse burning, or
control equipment or any equipment pertaining thereto, stack emission tests
must be made within 60 days of start-up time and results of the tests must be
submitted to the Department. If results of the tests indicate a failure to
comply within the limitations and requirements of this chapter, it shall
constitute sufficient grounds for the Director to order changes in the process,
fuel burning, refuse burning, or control equipment or appurtenances, before an
initial certificate of operation can be granted. When the Director refuses to
issue a certificate of operation, he or she is authorized to seal the process,
fuel burning, refuse burning, or control equipment until the person required to
procure the certificate of operation has complied with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Waiver of stack emission tests, as outlined in division (B)
above, may be granted by the Director when written evidence is presented that
indicates to him or her that the tests are not necessary because of the nature
of the process.
      (2)   Delay of stack emission tests, as outlined in division (B) above,
may be granted by the Director when written evidence is presented to him or her
that the processes are not in effective operation. If granted, the delay shall
not exceed 120 days.
   (D)   After the installation permit has been issued and it is demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the Director, that the process, fuel burning, refuse
burning, or control equipment can be operated in compliance with this chapter,
an initial certificate of operation shall be issued by the Director. The
certificate of operation shall be kept posted on or near the installation for
which it was issued. The certificate of operation shall properly identify the
equipment to which it pertains and shall specify the class of fuel, type of
refuse, type of raw materials used, if any, which have been successfully used
in the stack emission or operating tests.
   (E)   No equipment shall be operated for any other purpose or in any other
manner than that for which the installation permit was approved and for which a
certificate of operation has been issued unless otherwise authorized in writing
by the Director.
   (F)   A certificate of operation shall remain in force until terminated by
any one or more of the following provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Execution of §§
95.105 to
95.116,
95.130 to
95.138, and
95.150 to
95.155; and/or
      (2)   Execution of §
95.008.
(Prior Code, § 102.073) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.074 RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The Director of Air Quality Control shall require application for
renewal of certificates of operation on those installations for which an
installation permit was obtained and shall require the issuance or renewal of
certificates of operation on equipment existing prior to the adoption of this
chapter and collect appropriate fees for the certificates.
   (B)   A listing of all applications for certificates of operation and permit
fees must be submitted to the Department. The certificates of operation shall
not be required more often than once per year, and may be terminated for the
same reasons as listed in §
95.072. The Director is authorized to seal any equipment for which a
certificate of operation is required and has not been issued. Installation
permits and certificates of operation shall not be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 102.074)
§ 95.075 EFFECT ON PROSECUTION OF VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   The issuance by the Director of Air Quality Control of any installation
permit or certificate of operation shall not be held to exempt the person to
whom the permit or certificate was issued or who is in possession of the same
from prosecution for the emission of air contaminants prohibited by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 102.075)
§ 95.076 EXEMPTIONS FROM SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter are not applicable to domestic heating
plants or domestic incinerators.
(Prior Code, § 102.076)
§ 95.077 REGISTRATION OF POINTS OF EMISSION.
   (A)   The Director may require the written registration of points of
emission of air contaminants, whether by stack, duct, flue, equipment, or by
any other means, when, in his or her opinion, the information is necessary for
the conduct of the work of the Department. A period of 60 days shall be allowed
for the filing of the registration. However, in case of emergency, the Director
may designate any lesser time which he or she believes to be justified. The
Director is also empowered to notify the owner or agent when, in his or her
opinion, the registration is no longer required.
   (B)   The written registration of points of emission may include the
following information:
      (1)   Location of the source of emission;
      (2)   Size of outlets;
      (3)   Height of outlets;
      (4)   Rate of emission;
      (5)   Composition of emission;
      (6)   Temperature effluent or emission;
      (7)   Nature of the equipment creating the emissions; and
      (8)   Any other pertinent information specified by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 102.077)
FEES
§ 95.090 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All fees or penalties prescribed for the issuance of permits,
licenses, or certificates or for the inspection of plans, premises, or
equipment, under any provision of this chapter, shall be paid to the Director,
who shall render to the person making the payment a receipt stating the amount
and purpose for which the fee or penalty has been paid, a duplicate of which
shall be made part of the records of the Department. All fees and penalties
thus received shall be deposited with the City Controller for the corporate
fund.
   (B)   (1)   All fees or penalties prescribed for which the payment is
required under any provision of this subchapter shall constitute a debt due the
city.
      (2)   The City Attorney shall, at the direction of the Director,
institute a civil suit in the name of the city to recover the amount of any
unpaid fee or penalty.
      (2)   No civil judgment or any act by the City Attorney, the Director, or
the violator shall bar or prevent a criminal prosecution for each and every
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 102.090)
§ 95.091 INSPECTION; INSTALLATION PERMIT.
   Fees for the inspection of plans and issuing permits for the installation,
erection, construction, reconstruction, modification, alteration, of or
addition to fuel burning equipment, combustion or process equipment, or devices
and installation of apparatus, or devices for the prevention or arresting of
the discharge smoke, particulate, liquid, gaseous, or other matter are
specified in Table I. The following fees are subject to change at the
discretion of the city.
Table I
Fees for Installation Permits and for Annual Operating Certificates
 Installation Permits Annual Operating Certificates
Table I
Fees for Installation Permits and for Annual Operating Certificates
                                                                Installation Annual
                                                                Permits      Operating
                                                                             Certificates
Control Units
   Maximum volumetric rate is less than 1,000 SCF per hour   $15          $10
   Maximum volumetric rate is 1,000 to 100,000 SCF per hour  $30          $20
   Maximum volumetric rate is more than 100,000 SCF per hour $45          $30
Fuel Burning Equipment                                                       
   1,000,000 to 10,000,000 BTU/hour                          $15          $10
   10,000,000 to 100,000,000 BTU/hour                        $30          $20
   More than 100,000,000 BTU/hour                            $45          $30
Incinerators
   Less than 10 sq. ft. of grate area (excluding residential $15          $10
incinerators)
   10 to 50 sq. ft. of grate area                            $30          $20
   More than 50 sq. ft. of grate area                        $45          $30
Processes
   Less than one ton per hour process weight                 $15          $10
   One ton to 10 ton per hour process weight                 $30          $20
   More than 10 tons per hour process weight                 $45          $30
Stationary Product Storage Tanks for Volatile Products
   10,000 to 20,000 gallons capacity                         $15          $10
   20,000 to 40,000 gallons capacity                         $30          $20
   Over 40,000 gallons capacity                              $45          $30
 
(Prior Code, § 102.091)
§ 95.092 CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION.
   Fees shall be as follows for the issuance or reissuance of certificates of
operation which may require annual inspection of fuel burning, combustion, or
process equipment or devices:
   (A)   Fuel burning equipment used for space heating, steam, and hot water or
power generation, for each unit. Capacity of a million BTU per hour or more:
$10, or another amount as set by the city from time to time.
   (B)   Refuse burning equipment, for each unit. With less than 15 square feet
of grate area: $5, or another amount as set by the city from time to time. With
15 square feet or more of grate area: $10, or another amount as set by the city
from time to time.
   (C)   Process equipment or control devices. Per one unit operation or one
unit process creating atmospheric pollution or any device controlling
atmospheric pollution: $5, or another amount as set by the city from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 102.092)
§ 95.093 EXEMPTIONS AS TO DOMESTIC REFUSE BURNING EQUIPMENT.
   Provisions of §§
95.091 and
95.092 are not applicable for domestic refuse burning equipment.
(Prior Code, § 102.093)
EMISSION STANDARDS
§ 95.105 VISIBLE EMISSIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to discharge into the atmosphere or cause to
be so discharged from any combustion or process equipment or device, vehicle,
incinerator, or open fire whatsoever any air contaminant for a period
aggregating more than five minutes in any one hour which is:
   (A)   As dark or darker in shade as that designated as No. 2 on Ringlemann
Chart, as published by the United States Bureau of Mines; and
   (B)   Of an opacity as to obscure an observer’s view to a degree equal to or
greater than does smoke described in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 102.105)
§ 95.106 EMISSION OF PARTICULATE MATTER; FUEL BURNING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall cause, suffer, or allow to be emitted into the ambient
atmosphere from any existing fuel burning equipment or premises or to pass a
convenient measuring point near the stack outlet, particulate matter in the
gases to exceed 0.30 pounds per million BTU heat input per hour when total
plant capacity is less than 700,000,000 BTU heat input per hour particulate
matter in the gases are not to exceed 0.20 pounds per million BTU heat input
per hour.
   (B)   For new equipment with more than 250,000,000 BTU heat input per hour
the emissions shall not exceed 0.1 pounds of particulate matter per million BTU
heat input per hour.
   (C)   For new equipment with less than 250,000,000 BTU heat input per hour
the emissions shall not exceed 0.2 pounds of particulate matter per million BTU
heat input per hour.
(Prior Code, § 102.106) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.107 EMISSION OF PARTICULATE MATTER; INCINERATORS.
   No person shall cause, suffer, or allow to be emitted into the ambient
atmosphere from any incinerator, refuse burning equipment, or premises,
particulate matter in gases to exceed two-tenths pounds for each 100 pounds of
refuse charged solid or liquid.
(Prior Code, § 102.107) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.108 EMISSION OF PARTICULATE MATTER; INDUSTRIAL PROCESS EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The maximum allowable emission of particulate matter from any
source whatever except fuel burning and refuse burning equipment shall be
determined from Table II.
      (2)   To use the table, find the process weight per hour in the table and
note the allowable rate of emissions in pounds per hour next to the process
weight per hour.
Table II
Allowable Rate of Emission Based on Process Weight Rate
Process Weight Pounds per Hour Rate Tons per Hour Emission Rate Pounds per Hour
Table II
Allowable Rate of Emission Based on Process Weight Rate
Process Weight Pounds per Hour Rate Tons per Hour Emission Rate Pounds per Hour
1,000                          0.50               2.25
5,000                          2.5                6.34
10,000                         5.0                9.73
20,000                         10.0               14.99
60,000                         30.0               29.60
120,000                        60.0               33.28
160,000                        80.0               34.85
200,000                        100.0              36.11
400,000                        200.0              40.35
1,000,000                      500.0              46.72
 
   (B)   Interpolation of the data in this table for process weight rates up to
60,000 pounds per hour shall be accomplished by use of the equation: E=3.59
(P)0.62, and interpolation and extrapolation of the data for process weight
rates in excess of 60,000 pounds per hour shall be accomplished by use of the
equation: E=17.31(P)0.16 where E = rate of emission in pounds per hour and P =
process weight in tons per hour.
   (C)   Any controlled process, approved by the Department prior to January 1,
1973, whose process weight exceeds 400 tons per hour shall not be in violation,
if particulate emissions do not exceed five hundredths grains per standard
cubic foot of effluent gases.
(Prior Code, § 102.108) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.109 STORED PETROLEUM AND OTHER VOLATILE ORGANIC MATERIALS.
   (A)   A person shall not place, store, or hold in any stationary tank
reservoir or other container of more than 40,000 gallons capacity any petroleum
or volatile product or mixture of products having a vapor pressure of two
pounds per square inch absolute or greater under actual storage conditions,
unless the tank, reservoir, or other container is a pressure tank maintaining
working pressures sufficient at all times to prevent hydrocarbon vapor or gas
loss to the atmosphere, or is designed and equipped with one of the following
vapor loss control devices, properly installed, in good working order and in
operation:
      (1)   A floating roof, consisting of a pontoon type or double deck type
roof, resting on the surface of the liquid contents and equipped with a closure
seal to close the space between the roof edge and tank wall. The control
equipment provided for in this division shall not be used if the gasoline,
petroleum distillate, or other volatile product has a vapor pressure of 12
pounds per square inch absolute or greater under actual storage conditions. All
tank gauging and sampling devices shall be gas tight, except when gauging or
sampling is taking place;
      (2)   A vapor recovery system, consisting of a vapor gathering system
capable of collecting the hydrocarbon vapors or other gases discharged and a
vapor disposal system capable of processing the hydrocarbon vapors or other
gases so as to prevent their emission to the atmosphere and with all tank
gauging and sampling devices gas tight, except when gauging or sampling is
taking place; and
      (3)   Other equipment of equal efficiency; provided, that plans for the
equipment are submitted to and approved by the Director.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The manufacture of organic solvents;
      (2)   The spraying or other usage of insecticides, pesticides, or
herbicides;
      (3)   Industrial surface coating operations when the coating’s solvent
make-up is water based and does not exceed 20% of organic materials by volume;
and
      (4)   The use of organic solvents that will not create a health hazard or
a nuisance, as determined by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 102.109) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.110 LOADING VOLATILE PETROLEUM DISTILLATES INTO TANKS, TRUCKS, OR OTHER
VEHICLES.
   (A)   A person shall not load volatile products into any tank, truck, or
trailer or railroad car from any loading facility unless the loading operation
utilizes a submerged fill pipe or the loading facility is equipped with a vapor
collection and disposal system or its equivalent, properly installed, in good
working order, in operation, and approved by the Director.
   (B)   (1)   For purposes of this section, any petroleum distillate having a
Reid vapor pressure of four pounds or greater shall be included by the term
“volatile petroleum distillate or other volatile product.”
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, the term SUBMERGED FILL PIPE is
defined as any fill pipe the discharge opening of which is entirely submerged
when the liquid level is six inches above the bottom of the tank. SUBMERGED
FILL PIPE, when applied to a tank which is loaded from the side, is defined as
any fill pipe the discharge opening of which is entirely submerged when the
liquid is 18 inches above the bottom of the tank.
(Prior Code, § 102.110) Penalty, see § 102.999
§ 95.111 SULFUR DIOXIDE EMISSIONS FROM NONFERROUS SMELTERS.
   Sulfur dioxide emissions from nonferrous smelters are limited by the use of
the following equations.
 
Copper smelter Y = 0.2X
Zinc smelter   Y = .564X0.85
Lead smelter   Y = .98 X0.77
X = Total sulfur in process (lbs. per hour)
Y = Sulfur dioxide emissions (lbs. per hour)
 
(Prior Code, § 102.111)
§ 95.112 NITROGEN OXIDES EMISSION LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Emission of nitrogen oxides from new installations shall be limited to
the following.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow the emission of nitrogen oxides from
fuel burning equipment with a capacity of 250,000,000 BTU per hour or more in
excess of the following limits:
      (1)   In the case of gas firing, 0.20 pounds of NO2 per million BTU of
heat input;
      (2)   In the case of oil firing, 0.30 pounds of NO2 per million BTU of
heat input;
      (3)   In the case of coal firing, 0.70 pounds of NO2 per million BTU of
heat input.
(Prior Code, § 102.112) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.113 CIRCUMVENTION.
   No person shall build, erect, install, or use any article, machine
equipment, or other contrivance, the sole purpose of which is to dilute or
conceal an emission without resulting in a reduction in the total release of
air contaminants to the atmosphere. Increase in stack height or constriction so
as to increase stack exit velocity of gases shall not constitute a violation of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 102.113) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.114 REPORT OF EQUIPMENT BREAKDOWN.
   (A)   Emissions exceeding any of the limits established in this subchapter,
as a direct result of upset conditions in or breakdown of any process, fuel
burning, refuse burning, or control equipment or related operating equipment
shall not be deemed to be in violation of this subchapter; provided, that the
owner or operator immediately advises the Director of the circumstances and
outlines a corrective program acceptable to the Director.
   (B)   (1)   A record of all breakdowns or upset conditions of any process,
fuel burning, refuse burning, or control equipment shall be maintained.
      (2)   A quarterly summary of the record shall be submitted to the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 102.114)
§ 95.115 REPORT OF DISCONTINUED OR DISMANTLED EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be the duty of any person responsible for any discontinued or
dismantled fuel burning, combustion, or process equipment or device coming
under the jurisdiction of the permits or fees provisions of this chapter to
report to the Department within 30 days the permanent discontinuance or
dismantlement of the equipment or device.
(Prior Code, § 102.115)
§ 95.116 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to permit or cause the emission of
quantities of air contaminants from whatever source in the place or manner as
to be detrimental to any person or to the public or to endanger the health,
comfort, or safety of any person or the public or in a manner as to cause or
have a tendency to cause injury or damage to property or business. Each day
wherein a violation of this section occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Any act or emission of air contaminants from any single or multiple
source in violation or excess of the limitations established in this chapter
shall be unlawful and may be ordered abated by the Director.
      (3)   The abatement may be in addition to the fines and penalties herein
provided.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to cause or permit the handling,
transporting, or disposition of any substance or material which is likely to be
scattered by the wind or is susceptible to being windborne without taking
reasonable precautions or measures to minimize atmospheric pollution.
   (C)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate or maintain or cause to
be operated or maintained any premises, open area, right-of-way, storage pile
of materials or vehicle or construction, alteration, demolition, or wrecking
operation or any other enterprise, which involves any material or substance
likely to be scattered by the wind or susceptible to being windborne without
taking reasonable precautions or measures to minimize atmospheric pollution.
      (2)   No person shall maintain or conduct or cause to be maintained or
conducted, any parking lot or automobile or truck sales lot or use any roadway
unless the lot or roadway is maintained in a manner as to minimize atmospheric
pollution.
   (D)   Nothing in any section of this chapter relating to regulation of
emission of air contaminants shall in any manner be construed as authorizing or
legalizing the erection or maintenance of a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 102.116) Penalty, see §
95.999
OPEN BURNING
§ 95.130 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the air, without passing
through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
(Prior Code, § 102.130) (Ord. 0-06-0014, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 95.131 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow, or maintain any form of open
burning of any materials on private or public property, except as specifically
authorized by this subchapter. No person shall allow the accumulation or
existence of combustible material that constitutes or contributes to open
burning.
(Prior Code, § 102.131) (Ord. 0-06-0014, passed 5-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.132 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of burning are allowed:
   (A)   The burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood, and other cooking fuels
customarily used in an outdoor grill, traditional food cooking devices or
campfires; and
   (B)   Fires used for recreational or ceremonial purposes such as school pep
rally fires or the celebration of Scout activities. Recreational or ceremonial
shall meet the following conditions:
      (1)   Only clean untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper or
petroleum products can be used for ignition purposes only.
      (2)   The fire shall not be ignited more than two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity.
      (3)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1,000 cubic feet (for
example: ten feet by ten feet by ten feet).
      (4)   The local Fire Department shall be notified 24 hours in advance if
the pile to be burned is more than 125 cubic feet (for example: five feet by
five feet by five feet).
      (5)   The fire shall not be for disposal purposes.
      (6)   The fire shall not be within 500 feet of a pipeline or fuel storage
area.
(Prior Code, § 102.132) (Ord. 0-06-0014, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 95.133 VARIANCES.
   Other types of fires may be approved as follows:
   (A)   Any other type of fire whereby a citizen of the city has obtained a
variance from the provisions of this subchapter by petitioning the Common
Council may be allowed. However, the Common Council cannot grant a variance for
burning that would otherwise violate the provisions of the 326 I.A.C. 4-1 et
seq., as amended and I.C. 13-17-9.
   (B)   The following types of fires may be allowed if approved by the State
Department of Environmental Management:
      (1)   Waste oil burning where waste oil originates from spillage during
testing of an oil well and has been collected in a properly constructed and
located burn off pit as prescribed in 310 I.A.C. 7-1-37(a) in the State
Department of Natural Resources (DNR) rules, oil and gas operations. Burning
shall be subject to the following conditions: each oil pit may be burned once
every two months. The fire must be extinguished within 30 minutes of ignition;
      (2)   State Department of Natural Resources (DNR) burning to facilitate
prescribed burning on DNR-controlled properties for wildlife habitat
maintenance, forestry purposes, natural area management, and firefighting or
prevention; United States Department of the Interior burning to facilitate a
National Park Service Fire Management Plan for the Indiana Dunes National
Lakeshore, for example; and United States Department of Agriculture, Forest
Service burning, to facilitate wildlife habitat maintenance, forestry purposes,
natural area management, ecosystem management, and firefighting or prevention;
      (3)   Burning by the United States Forest Service for firefighting or
prevention is not subject to the conditions in §
95.134;
      (4)   Burning of marijuana by federal, state, and local law enforcement
offices. Only clean petroleum products shall be used for ignition purposes;
      (5)   Burning, for the purpose of heating, using clean wood products or
paper in a noncombustible container that is sufficiently vented to induce
adequate primary combustion, and has enclosed sides and a bottom. Burning shall
be subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Burning shall only occur between October 1 and May 15. Burning
shall not be conducted for the purpose of disposal;
         (b)   Burning of vegetation by Fire Departments and firefighters to
create fire breaks for purposes of extinguishing an existing fire. The burning
is not subject to the conditions in division (B)(5)(c) below;
         (c)   Burning of clean petroleum products for fire extinguisher
training, subject the following conditions;
         (d)   The local Fire Department and Health Department must be notified
at least 24 hours in advance of the date, time, and location of the burning;
         (e)   All burning shall take place in a noncombustible container or
enclosure, enclosed on all sides with a bottom;
         (f)   A total of no more than 14 gallons of fuel may be burned per
day. Only one fire may be allowed to burn at a time;
         (g)   All burning shall be conducted in a manner so as to prevent any
possibility of soil contamination; and
         (h)   Emergency burning with prior oral approval of the Commissioner
of the State Department of Environmental Management or the Commissioner’s
designated agent may be authorized for the following;
            1.   Spilled or escaping liquid or gaseous petroleum products when
all reasonable efforts to recover the spilled material have been made and
failure to burn would result in an imminent fire or health hazard or air or
water pollution problem; or
            2.   Clean wood waste, vegetation, or deceased animals resulting
from a natural disaster where failure to burn would result in an imminent
health or safety hazard.
(Prior Code, § 102.133) (Ord. 0-06-0014, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 95.134 CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO EXEMPTIONS AND VARIANCES.
   The following conditions apply to all exemptions and variances.
   (A)   Burning shall be done during safe weather conditions. Burning shall
not occur, during high winds, temperature inversions, air stagnation, or when a
pollution alert or ozone action day has been declared.
   (B)   Fires must be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
   (C)   Fires must be extinguished if they create a fire hazard, nuisance,
pollution problem, or threat to public health.
   (D)   Firefighting equipment adequate for the size of the fire shall be on-
site and nearby during times of burning.
   (E)   Burning shall not be for disposal purposes.
   (F)   All burning shall comply with other federal, state, and local laws,
rules, and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 102.134) (Ord. 0-06-0014, passed 5-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.135 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Liability for fire. Any person who allows the accumulation or
existence of combustible material which constitutes or contributes to open
burning may not avoid liability for violation of this subchapter on the basis
that the fire was set by vandals, an accident, or an act of God.
   (B)   Enforcement. The open burning provisions are enforceable by the duly
appointed Fire Department personnel, police officer, Health Department Officer,
or City Inspector acting on his or her own initiative or at the request of the
Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 102.135) (Ord. 0-06-0014, passed 5-8-2006) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.136 PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall dispose of refuse by open burning or cause,
suffer, allow, or permit open burning of refuse, unless a permit therefor has
been obtained from the Director.
      (2)   Any person required by this section to secure a refuse burning
permit may apply for a continuing permit which, when issued, shall authorize
the burning of combustible refuse during the period covered thereby, the period
not to exceed one year.
   (B)   The open burning of refuse may be permitted when it can be shown by a
person that open burning is absolutely necessary and in the public interest.
Any person intending to engage in open burning of refuse shall file a request
to do so with the Director. The application shall state the following, but
shall not be limited to:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person submitting
the application;
      (2)   The type of business or activity involved;
      (3)   A description of the proposed equipment and operating practices,
the type, quantity, and composition and amount of air contaminants to be
released to the atmosphere;
      (4)   The schedule of burning operations;
      (5)   The exact location where open burning may be carried on;
      (6)   Reason why no method other than open burning can be used for
disposal of trade waste; and
      (7)   Evidence that the proposed open burning has been approved by the
City Fire Department.
   (C)   The Director may, in his or her discretion, impose other reasonable
conditions necessary to prevent the creation of a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 102.136) Penalty, see § 102.999
§ 95.137 CERTAIN FIRES PERMITTED.
   (A)   This section shall not apply to smoke from fires set by any person if
the fire is set with the written permission of the Director.
   (B)   The decision of the Director to allow certain fires will be based on
the necessity of a public officer in the performance of his or her duties for
the prevention of a fire hazard or the instruction of public or private
employees in the methods of fighting fire.
(Prior Code, § 102.137)
§ 95.138 SALVAGE OPERATION.
   No person shall conduct or cause or permit the conduct of a salvage
operation by open burning.
(Prior Code, § 102.138)
SULFUR OXIDES
§ 95.150 GENERALLY.
   No person shall cause, let, permit, suffer, or allow any emission or sulfur
oxides which results in ground level concentrations of sulfur oxides at any
given point in excess of five-tenths parts per million by volume in the period
of any hour, and average exposure shall not exceed one-tenth parts per million
by volume of sulfur oxide in any 24-hour period. These limitations shall not
apply to ground level concentrations occurring on the property from which the
emission occurs; provided that the property, from the emission point to the
point of any concentration, is controlled by the person responsible for the
emission.
(Prior Code, § 102.150)
§ 95.151 LIMITATIONS ON FUEL SULFUR CONTENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit the use, or if intended for use in the
city, except as provided in division (E) below, the purchase, sale, offering
for sale, storage, or transportation of fuel, which, as determined by the
methods of the American Society for Testing and Materials, contains more than
the following quantity of sulfur per million BTU in the following use
classifications:
      (1)   From July 1, 1971, until July 1, 1972, one and eight-tenths pounds
of sulfur per million BTU heating value; or
      (2)   After July 1, 1972, nine-tenths pounds of sulfur per million BTU
heating value.
   (B)   All new space heating equipment, the plans for which are 50% or less
completed by July 1, 1971, shall be limited to the use of fuels containing no
more than nine-tenths pounds of sulfur per million BTU. All existing space
heating equipment shall be limited to the use of fuels containing not more than
one and eight-tenths pounds of sulfur per million BTU on and after July 1,
1971, to and including July 1, 1972, and shall thereafter be limited to the use
of fuels, containing no more than nine-tenths pounds sulfur per million BTU on
and after July 1, 1972.
   (C)   All new and existing industrial power plants, electric power
generating plants, and process plants, except as provided in division (E)
below, shall be limited to the use of fuel containing no more than one and
thirty-five hundredths pounds of sulfur per million BTU from and after July 1,
1971, and shall be limited to the use of fuel containing no more than nine-
tenths pounds of sulfur per million BTU on and after July 1, 1972.
   (D)   No fuels exceeding the sulfur limitations set forth in this section
shall be used in the city without prior notification of its use to the
Department.
   (E)   The following exceptions apply to divisions (A) through (D) above:
      (1)   Fuels which exceed the sulfur limits as specified in division (A)
above may be sold, stored, or transferred for use in the city if intended for
use in combination simultaneously with other fuels in a facility whereby
emissions of sulfur dioxide will not exceed that which could result from
burning fuels having limits specified in division (A) above;
      (2)   Fuels which exceed the sulfur limits specified in division (C)
above may be burned in industrial power plants, electric power generating
plants, and process plants if burned in combination with other fuels or
materials in a facility whereby the emissions of sulfur dioxide shall not
exceed that which would result from burning fuels specified in division (C)
above; and
      (3)   Any facility which has installed equipment which has been approved
by the Department for the control of sulfur oxide emissions, may use fuels of
higher sulfur content than that stipulated in divisions (A) and (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 102.151) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.152 EMISSIONS FROM SINGLE STACKS.
   (A)   After July 1, 1971, no person shall cause or permit the emission into
the atmosphere from any new or existing stack of gases containing more than
1,200 parts per million by volume of sulfur dioxide at 20% excess air, and
after July 1, 1972, 850 parts per million, except as provided in division (B)
below.
   (B)   The limitation set forth in division (A) above shall not apply to
sulfur recovery plants or desulfurizing units employing the best available
technology, as approved by the Director, for minimizing sulfur dioxide
emissions, nor to other existing processes for which there is no generally
accepted control method, as determined by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 102.152) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.153 RECORDS OF FUEL ANALYSES AND USAGE.
   Records of the amount of daily fuel usage and an analyses of fuels shall be
maintained. A quarterly summary of the records shall be submitted to the
Department.
(Prior Code, § 102.153) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.154 SULFURIC ACID MANUFACTURING PROCESSES.
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit the emission into the atmosphere from
any existing sulfuric acid manufacturing process more than six and five-tenths
pounds of sulfur dioxide per ton of 100% acid produced. Acid mist emission
levels shall not exceed more than five-tenths pounds per ton of 100% acid
produced and sulfur trioxide emissions shall be limited to two-tenths pounds
per ton of 100% acid produced.
   (B)   New sulfuric acid manufacturing processes shall include controls that
limit emissions to four pounds of sulfur dioxide per ton of 100% acid produced.
(Prior Code, § 102.154) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.155 HYDROGEN SULFIDE.
   No person shall cause or permit the emission into the atmosphere from any
new or existing source of hydrogen sulfide in a manner and amounts that the
concentrations thereof at the stack exceed a concentration of 160 parts per
million by volume for a maximum period of two minutes at any time.
(Prior Code, § 102.155) Penalty, see §
95.999
SAMPLING AND TESTING
§ 95.170 AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT TESTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Director is authorized to conduct or cause to be conducted,
a test or tests of existing process, fuel burning, refuse burning, or control
equipment, the operation of which, in his or her opinion, may result in
emissions in excess of the limitations in this chapter or when, in his or her
judgment, there is evidence that emissions from any equipment are exceeding any
emission limitation prescribed in this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   When tests are requested by the Director, a detailed report
of the tests shall be submitted within a reasonable time limit prescribed by
the Director.
         (b)   He or she should be notified of the time and date of the testing
and a representative of his or her office may be stipulated to be present
during the conduct of the tests.
   (B)   Nothing in this section concerning tests conducted and paid by any
person or his or her authorized agent shall be deemed to abridge the rights of
the Director or his or her representative to conduct separate or additional
tests of any process, fuel-burning, or control equipment on behalf of the city
at a reasonable time and if the tests substantiate that a violation exists, the
person or persons liable for the violation shall be responsible for paying all
attendant costs for conducting tests.
(Prior Code, § 102.170)
§ 95.171 TEST FACILITIES AND ACCESS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or operator of the operation
tested to provide, at his or her expense, reasonable and necessary openings in
the system or stack and safe and easy access thereto, which shall permit
technically valid samples and measurements to be taken. All new sources of air
contaminants erected after the effective date of this chapter are required to
provide adequate openings in the system or stack and safe and easy access
thereto, which shall permit technically valid measurements and samples to be
taken. If a person refuses to supply test openings, access scaffolding, and
other pertinent facilities requested for the purpose of conducting valid
emission tests by the Director, the Director shall notify the person to show
cause before the Director on a day certain, not less than ten or more than 20
days from the date of the notice, why the equipment should not be sealed.
(Prior Code, § 102.171)
§ 95.172 STACK EMISSION TEST METHOD.
   Stack emission tests shall be undertaken by generally recognized standards
or methods of measurements recommended by the Federal Environmental Protection
Agency, but these may be modified or adjusted by the Director to suit specific
sampling conditions or needs based on good practice, judgment, and experience.
(Prior Code, § 102.172)
§ 95.173 FUEL SAMPLES.
   The Director may at any time request samples of fuels being used in any
operation for analyses.
(Prior Code, § 102.173)
§ 95.174 EMISSION MONITORING.
   The Director shall have the authority to request the installation and
maintenance of a continuous emission monitoring device on any stationary source
which in his or her opinion can exceed the limitations of this chapter. The
date from the monitoring devices shall be maintained and a summary of the data
shall be submitted to the Department quarterly.
(Prior Code, § 102.174) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.175 TAMPERING WITH TESTING DEVICES.
   No person except duly authorized officers or employees of the city shall
touch, remove, destroy, molest, or mutilate any monitoring or testing device or
contents owned or used by the city for monitoring or testing smoke, dust, or
other air contaminants. Any person shall be subject to the fines and penalties
provided in this code.
(Prior Code, § 102.175) Penalty, see §
95.999
VARIANCES IN GENERAL
§ 95.190 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Where emission sources do not meet the emission limitations noted in
§§
95.105 to
95.155 of this chapter, then a compliance schedule to meet the emission
limitations stipulated shall be developed and offered to the Director by the
owner of the equipment causing the emission. This compliance schedule shall be
submitted at a time fixed by the Director. After the compliance schedule has
been approved by the Director, the owner of the equipment causing the emission
shall not be in violation of this chapter so long as the compliance schedule is
observed. In evaluating a compliance schedule, the Director shall take into
consideration the following factors:
      (1)   Action taken to control atmospheric pollution within emission
limitations in effect prior to the adoption of this chapter;
      (2)   Efficiency of any existing control equipment relative to that which
would be required to meet emission limitations of this chapter;
      (3)   Temporary interim control measures intended to minimize existing
pollution levels;
      (4)   The effect the source of emission has on ambient air quality
generally or in the immediate vicinity of the source;
      (5)   The degree of control in relation to other similar facilities which
produce air pollution; and
      (6)   The age and prospective life of the facility in question.
   (B)   Reports consisting of information required by the Director indicating
the progress of these compliance schedules shall be submitted quarterly to the
Director by the owner of the equipment causing the emission in question.
   (C)   After the date stipulated for final compliance, an operating permit
shall be issued when, in the opinion of the Director, all provisions of the
compliance schedule have been satisfactorily completed.
   (D)   The compliance schedule developed in accordance with division (A)
above shall be legally enforceable, and failure to conform to the requirements
of the compliance schedule shall constitute a separate violation of this
chapter, apart from any violation of §§
95.105 through
95.155 of this chapter. In the event of the violation of a compliance schedule,
the Director may initiate the applicable provisions of §
95.999 for noncompliance.
   (E)   There shall be no violation if failure to meet the compliance schedule
is for causes beyond the reasonable control of the owner or operator, as
determined by the Director. Extension of time schedules may be granted by the
Director when written evidence is presented that, in his or her opinion, would
justify the granting of an extension of the schedule.
(Prior Code, § 102.190) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.191 SPECIFIC VARIANCES ENUMERATED.
   (A)   Where the presence of uncombined water is the only reason for failure
of an emission to meet the requirement of §
95.105(B), the section shall not apply.
   (B)   Experimental procedures on new or existing process, fuel burning,
refuse burning, or other equipment or devices for use in a manner as to emit
atmospheric pollutants may be conducted upon receipt of the written approval of
the Director. The Director may grant a written approval to conduct experimental
procedures for any period of time not to exceed one year, and he or she may, in
addition to the time limitation, impose other conditions and limitations on the
conduct of experimental procedures that he or she deems reasonable to minimize
the effects of the experimental procedure on the ambient air. During the period
of time the experimental procedures are conducted with the approval of the
Director, the provisions of §§
95.105 to
95.116 shall not apply.
(Prior Code, § 102.191) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
10.999. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense, and an
unlawful emission from each chimney, smoke stack, open fire, or other point of
discharge shall also constitute a separate offense. A separate and distinct
offense shall be regarded as committed each day on which the person shall
continue or permit any violation to exist after notification thereof by the
Director. Any abatement provided for in §§
95.105 through
95.155 of this chapter shall be in addition to any penalties prescribed in this
section.
   (B)   Open burning. Any person found in violation of this §§
95.130 through
95.138 shall be subject to the following procedures.
      (1)   Any Fire Department personnel, police officer, Health Department
Officer, or City Inspector shall issue a warning notice to a first-time
violator stating that he or she is in violation. The person must then correct
the violation by immediately extinguishing the fire. Failure or refusal to
immediately extinguish the fire shall result in a citation being issued, which
shall be prosecuted by the City Attorney in the City Court.
      (2)   Violation of §§
95.130 through
95.138 is punishable by a fine in an amount as set by the city from time to
time per occurrence.
      (3)   Failure or refusal by the violator to immediately extinguish the
fire in violation of §§
95.130 through
95.138 shall also result in the Fire Department having the authority to go upon
private property to extinguish the fire.
      (4)   Each subsequent starting, kindling, causing, or allowing of a new
fire after a warning notice or citation has been issued, shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 102.999) (Ord. 0-06-0014, passed 5-8-2006)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND HARBORS
Section
Parks
   
96.001   Rules and regulations
   
96.002   Conduct
   
96.003   Clothing for swimming or bathing
   
96.004   Permitted times for swimming or bathing
   
96.005   Contaminating public pools or beaches
   
96.006   Permits required for music, flags, and drills
   
96.007   Bonfires; picnics
   
96.008   Interference with programs prohibited   
   
96.009   Killing birds or animals
   
96.010   Domesticated animals
   
96.011   Injuring trees
   
96.012   Posting bills
   
96.013   Vehicles; horses
   
96.014   Carrying firearms; throwing stones or other missiles
   
96.015   Loitering in Koscuisko Park
   
96.016   Rubbish
   
96.017   Parks and recreation sponsored functions
   
96.018   Jeorse Park Beach fee schedule
Harbors
   
96.030   Effect of federal regulations on chapter
   
96.031   Harbor defined
   
96.032   Powers and duties of harbor master
   
96.033   Dock construction plans
   
96.034   Maintenance of docks
   
96.035   Smoking on docks, wharves, and piers   
   
96.036   Dredging permit
   
96.037   Dumping refuse; depositing putrid substances
   
96.038   Obstructions in harbor
   
96.039   Projections from wharf
   
96.040   Removal of sunken or insecure vessels
   
96.041   Display of vessel name
   
96.042   Vessel refuse tanks
   
96.043   Liability for injury to cables
   
96.044   Report of use of harbor facilities
   
96.045   Rules for vessels in harbor
   
96.046   Bridges; opening, signals, and passing
   
96.047   Damage and accidents to docks, piers, and bridges
   
96.048   Examinations and reports of defective dangerous places on bridges
 
   
96.999   Penalty
PARKS
§ 96.001 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall have the right and power to
adopt rules and regulations governing the use of the various parks, public
playgrounds, swimming pools, and bathing beaches, and public recreational
facilities of the city under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Rules and regulations pertaining to parks, pools, and the like shall
be conspicuously posted and rigidly obeyed and enforced. It is unlawful for any
person to refuse to comply with the regulations. All enforcement officials of
the city and the Supervisor or Director of Recreation and persons duly
authorized shall have the power to enforce the regulations.
(Prior Code, § 100.01) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.002 CONDUCT.
   No threatening, abusive, insulting, or indecent language shall be allowed in
any part of any public park, public playground, swimming pool, or bathing
beach; nor shall any conduct be permitted whereby a breach of peace may be
occasioned or danger threatened; nor shall any person tell fortunes; nor shall
any person play any game of chance at or with any table or instrument of
gaming; nor shall any person violate the state alcoholic beverage act or commit
any obscene or indecent act there; nor shall any person annoy any other person
or canvass or solicit any contributions.
(Prior Code, § 100.02) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.003 CLOTHING FOR SWIMMING OR BATHING.
   No person shall swim, bathe, or be in the waters of Lake Michigan, adjacent
to the city or in any part of the harbor or at any bathing beach or in or at
any public swimming pool in the city unless the person is clothed in suitable
bathing clothes as judged by contemporary community standards.
(Prior Code, § 100.03) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.004 PERMITTED TIMES FOR SWIMMING OR BATHING.
   It is unlawful for any person to swim or bathe in any public swimming pool
or pubic bathing beach at any time other than that expressly permitted by
regulation of the Board of Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 100.04) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.005 CONTAMINATING PUBLIC POOLS OR BEACHES.
   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or contaminate any public
swimming pool or public bathing beach.
(Prior Code, § 100.05) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.006 PERMITS REQUIRED FOR MUSIC, FLAGS, AND DRILLS.
   No person shall play upon any musical instrument, nor shall any person take
into or carry or display in any park, public playground, or bathing beach any
flag, banner, or target, nor shall any military company parade, drill, or
perform any military drill or other evolution movement without a permit from
the Superintendent of Parks.
(Prior Code, § 100.06) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.007 BONFIRES; PICNICS.
   (A)   No person shall light or make or use any bonfire in any public park,
public playground, or bathing beach without express permission of the
Superintendent of Parks.
   (B)   Picnicking may be held in public parks designated for that purpose
subject to the regulations of the Board of Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 100.07) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.008 INTERFERENCE WITH PROGRAMS PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with or to interrupt or wilfully
disrupt or disturb any public program or entertainment wherever presented in
the city, sponsored or directed by the Director of Community Recreation of the
Department of Parks and Recreation. It is unlawful for any person to interfere
with the Director of Community Recreation or any of his or her assistants in
the presentation of the programs or to damage, disturb, tamper with, touch, or
to exercise control over any equipment, device, or vehicle of the Director of
Community Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 100.08) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.009 KILLING BIRDS OR ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to kill or pursue with intent to kill any
birds, waterfowl, squirrels, rabbits, or other game animals in any public park.
(Prior Code, § 100.09) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.010 DOMESTICATED ANIMALS.
   No person shall bring, lead, or cause any domesticated animals to enter city
parks.
(Prior Code, § 100.10) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.011 INJURING TREES.
   (A)   No person shall cut, break, or in any way, injure, damage, or deface
trees, shrubs, plants, flowers, turf, or any of the buildings, fences, stands,
or other construction or property contained in any public park.
   (B)   No person shall be allowed to play ball or other games likely to
injure the grass, lawn flowers, trees, or shrubbery in any of the city parks or
places of public recreation except in places as may be provided for that
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 100.11) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.012 POSTING BILLS.
   No person shall post or otherwise affix any bills, notice, or other paper
upon any structure or thing within any park, public playground, or bathing
beach, nor upon any of the gates, fences, or enclosures thereof.
(Prior Code, § 100.12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.013 VEHICLES; HORSES.
   (A)   No bicycle, motorcycle, scooter, automobile, truck, or other vehicle
or horse shall be permitted on the foot walk, sidewalk, grass, or planting
places or any other place in public parks and playgrounds, except upon roadways
expressly provided therefor.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to operate or permit to be operated any
of the vehicles mentioned above, except where signs expressly permit their use
or where the Superintendent of Parks for particular purposes has given
permission for the operation.
(Prior Code, § 100.13) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.014 CARRYING FIREARMS; THROWING STONES OR OTHER MISSILES.
   All persons are forbidden to carry firearms, air guns, or weapons or to
throw stones or other missiles within any park, public playground, or bathing
beach.
(Prior Code, § 100.14) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.015 LOITERING IN KOSCUISKO PARK.
   It is unlawful for any person to loiter, idle, wander, stroll, play, or
sleep in any city park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(prevailing local time) of the following day.
(Prior Code, § 100.15) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.016 RUBBISH.
   It is unlawful for any person to drop, throw, place, or suffer to remain in
any park, public playground, or bathing beach any paper, box, waste, or rubbish
except in containers provided for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 100.16) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.017 PARKS AND RECREATION SPONSORED FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   The policy of the Parks and Recreation Department of providing
functions, events and prizes shall be continued and the City Council expressly
authorizes the Parks and Recreation Department to sponsor events and functions
and to purchase and award nominal prizes.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Department is instructed to continue to exert
its utmost efforts to continue and expand upon past programs for senior
citizens, children and athletic and other citizen involvement type events.
(Prior Code, § 100.17) (Ord. 3201, passed - -1978) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.018 JEORSE PARK BEACH FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   All vehicles daily fees.
      (1)   City residents: $5 per day.
      (2)   Non-city residents: $20 per day.
      (3)   All visitors: $4 per hour.
   (B)   Annual parking pass fees. Effective upon passage, parking permits may
be purchased at the East Chicago Marina, Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 3:
30 p.m. To obtain a parking pass, a current vehicle registration is required.
Parking permits must be affixed by its design to the vehicle registration it
was issued to.
      (1)   City resident, 46312 zip code (annual pass): $5.
      (2)   State resident outside the 46312 zip code (annual pass): $50.
      (3)   Out of state resident (annual pass): $100.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Parking violations are to be strictly enforced by the City Police
Department with either a parking ticket or tow, at their discretion.
      (2)   If towed, the only option is to go to the City Police Department
front lobby (2301 E. Columbus Dr.) between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday to pay for a tow release. The police will disclose which
tow yard the vehicle has been taken to.
(Ord. 19-0018, passed 9-9-2019)
HARBORS
§ 96.030 EFFECT OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS ON CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply when not contrary to the powers
and regulations of the federal government. When a conflict in authority
prevails, the provisions of this chapter shall not apply. The local authorities
shall in all matters cooperate with superior federal authority.
(Prior Code, § 101.01)
§ 96.031 HARBOR DEFINED.
   The HARBOR referred to in this chapter shall consist of the Indiana Harbor
Ship Canal and its branches, including all ships adjacent to and connecting
therewith and all piers and permanent structures therein, the Grand Calumet
River, including all ships and basins connecting therewith and all piers,
breakwaters, and permanent structures therein, the waters of Lake Michigan,
including all breakwaters, piers, and permanent structures therein for a
distance of three miles from the shore between the north and south lines of the
city, extended at right angles to the original shore lines of Lake Michigan.
(Prior Code, § 101.02)
§ 96.032 POWERS AND DUTIES OF HARBOR MASTER.
   (A)   The Harbor Master shall have the power to remove any vessel, craft, or
float lying at any dock, wharf, or pier, while receiving or discharging cargo
or otherwise engaged, when it is necessary to do so to facilitate the movements
of other vessels, crafts, or floats or traffic in the harbor, or in case of
fire or when public safety requires it; he or she shall also have the power,
when a vessel is so deeply loaded as to interrupt the traffic at the bridges or
in the harbor, to tie up the vessel until a time as the vessel shall have been
lightened or a rise of water in the harbor may enable it to proceed; also to
stop at any time or place the vessels, crafts, or floats as may be proceeding
up or down the canal, to prevent a jam or blockade or at time of fire or where
public safety requires it.
   (B)   The Harbor Master shall give orders and directions relative to the
location, change of place or station, manner of moving, or use of the harbor of
or by every vessel, craft, or float lying, moving, or laid up in the harbor, as
may be necessary to promote good order therein and the safety and equal
convenience of the vessel, crafts, or floats.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any mud scow, flat boat, dredge, or any crafts to
be placed or laid alongside of another while lying at any of the docks or
wharves of the harbor during the navigable season of the year, without first
having obtained permission from the Harbor Master. Any owner, master, or other
person having charge of the vessel, craft, float, mud scow, flat boat, dredge,
or other craft who shall refuse or neglect to obey any order or direction shall
be deemed guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 101.03) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.033 DOCK CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   Filing. Every person before proceeding with the construction,
erection, rebuilding, alteration, or repair of any dock along the banks of any
river, public canal, or water slip within the corporate limits of the city
shall, subject to the approval of the federal government, file with the
Supervisor of Public Works, drawings, plans, and specifications sufficient to
enable the Supervisor of Public Works to obtain full and complete information
as to the extent and character of the work to be done, which drawings, plans,
and specifications shall be kept on file in the office of the Supervisor of
Public Works governing the construction, erection, rebuilding, alteration, or
repair of any dock along the banks of any river, public canal, or water slip in
the city.
(Prior Code, § 101.04)
   (B)   Approval. If the drawings, plans, and specifications indicate to the
Supervisor of Public Works that the work to be done on any dock is not in all
respects in accordance with the standard plans and specifications approved by
the federal government governing the construction, erection, rebuilding,
alteration, or repair of any dock along the banks of any river, public canal,
or water slip in the city, the supervisor shall immediately notify the federal
government.
(Prior Code, § 101.05)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.034 MAINTENANCE OF DOCKS.
   Every owner, lessee, or person in possession of premises abutting on the
harbor shall at all times keep the wharves and docks on the premises in good
repair and safe condition. The Harbor Master shall notify the owner, lessee, or
person in possession that he or she will be held liable for all damage
occasioned to person or property by reason of the unsafe conditions of the
wharves and docks.
(Prior Code, § 101.06) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.035 SMOKING ON DOCKS, WHARVES, AND PIERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to smoke, carry, or possess a lighted
cigarette, cigar, pipe, or match upon any bulkhead, dock, shipyard, pier,
wharf, warehouse, or shed, except the portions thereof as may be designated by
the Harbor Master, or to smoke, carry, or possess a lighted cigarette, cigar,
pipe, or match on board any ship, lighter, scow, or other similar floating
craft or equipment when berthed or moored at any dock, wharf, pier, or to a
vessel made fast thereto within the harbor.
(Prior Code, § 101.07) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.036 DREDGING PERMIT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any dredge or other machine to cut clay or dredge
sand or other material from the bed or bottom of the harbor, unless the person
present conducting the work has in his or her possession a permit in writing
from the federal government, in which permit the location and time occupied in
the work shall be specified.
   (B)   The person conducting the work shall produce the permit on demand of
the Harbor Master or any of his or her assistants.
(Prior Code, § 101.08) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.037 DUMPING REFUSE; DEPOSITING PUTRID SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Dumping of refuse into Lake Michigan.
      (1)   No person shall throw, discharge, dump, or deposit or cause,
suffer, or procure to be thrown, discharged, dumped, or deposited in the harbor
of the city or anywhere in Lake Michigan within eight miles of the corporate
limits any clay, earth, ashes, or other heavy substances or substance, filth,
logs, floating matter, obstructions, or refuse matter of any kind or
description whatever, unless the material shall be placed inside of a
breakwater so arranged as not to permit the escape of clay, earth, ashes, or
other heavy substance, filth, logs, floating matter, obstruction, or refuse
matter into the body of Lake Michigan.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Harbor Master to cause the arrest of
any person in charge of any tug, scow, or dredge who violates any of the
provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 101.09)
   (B)   Depositing putrid substances on banks and in harbor. No person shall
throw, place, or deposit or cause or permit to be thrown, placed, or deposited
any garbage, refuse, vegetable matter, filth, dung, carrion, dead animal,
offal, putrid, or unwholesome substance of the content of any privy, water
closet, catchbasin, cesspool, or vault upon the margin or banks or into the
waters of the harbor.
(Prior Code, § 101.10)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.038 OBSTRUCTIONS IN HARBOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Harbor Master to report to the City
Engineer any and all encroachments upon the harbor lines, and thereupon the
officers shall take action as may be necessary to remove or cause to be removed
any obstruction or encroachment. If it shall be found that any pile, stone,
timber, earth, dock, bridge, or other obstruction whatever has been placed in
any part of the harbor in violation of the provisions of this section, and that
the person who has placed or caused the same to be placed therein refuses or
neglects to remove the obstruction upon being requested so to do by the Harbor
Master, City Engineer or Board of Public Safety, the officers, and Board or
either of them shall have the power and it is made their duty to proceed
forthwith to inform the federal government. Upon the authorization of the
federal government, the city officer shall remove the obstruction and charge
the expense of the removal to the person who placed or caused to be placed the
obstruction in the harbor, and the imposition of any fine or penalty provided
for or against any person obstructing the harbor shall not be held to exempt
any person from a recovery by the city of the cost of removing any obstruction.
   (B)   Every pile, timber, stone, or other substance placed or laid so as to
project above or below the surface of the waters of the harbor or any part
thereof or beyond any dock line established by its duly authorized agencies is
declared a nuisance; and every person who shall place or lay any pile, timber,
stone, or substance or the owner of any premises on which the same shall be so
placed or laid shall be deemed guilty of violating the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Any person having charge of any raft of lumber, logs, or timber who
shall refuse or neglect to comply with the orders of the Harbor Master,
relative to the change of location or removal of the same, shall be deemed
guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter. Any owner, master, or
officer of any tug, propeller, or steamboat leaving any raft of lumber, logs,
or timber within the harbor, where the same shall be or become an obstruction
to commerce, shall be deemed guilty of violating the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 101.11) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.039 PROJECTIONS FROM WHARF.
   Any owner, lessee, or person in possession of any wharf or dock, at which
any vessel shall have been discharging its cargo, who shall suffer or permit
any part of the cargo so discharged to project from the wharf or dock over and
into the harbor after the vessel so unloaded shall have removed from the wharf
or dock shall be deemed guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 101.12) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.040 REMOVAL OF SUNKEN OR INSECURE VESSELS.
   (A)   Whenever there shall be in the harbor any vessel, craft, or float
insecurely fastened, adrift, sunken, or laid up, which may be required to be
fastened, raised, removed, or its location changed for the benefit of other
vessels navigating the harbor or to carry out the provisions of §
96.032, the Harbor Master shall notify the owner or other person who may be in
charge thereof to secure, raise, or remove the vessel, craft, or float, or if
no person answering the description can be found by him or her, the notice
shall not be required and the Harbor Master shall remove the vessel and the
vessel shall be held for all expenses and costs, and any person who shall
refuse or neglect to comply with the order or direction shall be deemed guilty
of violating the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   If any vessel, craft, or float shall not be secured, removed, or its
location changed in compliance with the direction of the Harbor Master after
notice, or if the Harbor Master shall be unable to serve the notice, in either
case he or she shall cause the vessel, craft, or float to be secured, raised,
removed, or its location changed, employing assistance as may be necessary for
the purpose. All expenses which may be incurred in any case shall be
recoverable of the owner, consignee, master, or other person having charge of
the vessel, craft, or float. If any person shall resist the Harbor Master or
any person acting under him or her in the execution of the duty imposed upon
him or her by these sections, the person so resisting shall be deemed guilty of
violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 101.13) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.041 DISPLAY OF VESSEL NAME.
   It is unlawful for any owner, master, or person in possession, charge, or
control of any vessel, steamboat, propeller, tug, scow, craft, or float of any
kind to operate, navigate, keep, or maintain the same in the harbor of the city
unless the same shall have a name plainly and conspicuously displayed thereon,
which shall be large enough and in a position as to be readily distinguishable
and readable on both sides or from the rear thereof for a distance of at least
500 feet. The name shall be of a distinctive character that any vessel,
steamboat, propeller, tug, scow, craft, or float of any kind may be readily
identified by the same.
(Prior Code, § 101.14) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.042 VESSEL REFUSE TANKS.
   All vessels, craft, or floats which are engaged in lake commerce between the
port of Indiana Harbor and other lake ports and all passenger and excursion
boats and steamers entering or leaving the port or harbor of the city shall be
provided and equipped with adequate tanks to receive and hold all garbage,
refuse, filth, dung, carrion, offal, putrid, or unwholesome substance or the
contents of the privies or water closets while in port, and the contents of the
tanks shall not be dumped within ten miles of the shore line of the city or
into the waters of Lake Michigan nearer than ten miles from any intake of water
for public consumption.
(Prior Code, § 101.15) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.043 LIABILITY FOR INJURY TO CABLES.
   Any person who shall injure, remove, or damage any cable without consent
shall pay to the city the cost of repairing.
(Prior Code, § 101.16) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.044 REPORT OF USE OF HARBOR FACILITIES.
   It shall be the duty of the managing owner, agent, or master of any vessel
or person using the harbor facilities in the city to make a detailed monthly
report to the Harbor Master of the name and tonnage of every vessel coming or
landing at the wharves or docks of the city, the time of arrival of the vessel,
and the time of departure, together with a description of the cargo and a
statement of the tonnage of the vessel.
(Prior Code, § 101.17) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.045 RULES FOR VESSELS IN HARBOR.
   All vessels, craft, or floats lying in or navigating the harbor shall be
respectively governed by the following provisions.
   (A)   Every vessel using steam shall have its smoke pipe or pipes so
constructed and managed as to prevent sparks or coals of fire escaping
therefrom, and shall be moved slowly at a speed not exceeding four mph under a
low head of steam. Every tugboat or steam vessel used chiefly for towing shall
have a joint in its smoke pipe or pipes and shall be constructed in all
respects in a manner as to be able to pass under any bridge which is not less
than 13 feet above the surface of the water.
   (B)   No master or other person owing or having charge of any vessel, craft,
or float shall leave the same in the harbor without having on board or in
charge thereof some competent person to control, manage, and secure the same,
without first obtaining permission of the Harbor Master.
   (C)   All vessels, craft, or floats, whether using steam or otherwise, while
lying in the harbor shall have and keep their anchors on board and their lower
yards cock-biled and the upper yards braced up sharp. They shall also have and
keep out on board during the night time a conspicuous white light and shall
have extinguished or safely secured at dark all fires which may be kept on
board.
   (D)   No vessel, craft, or float shall be suffered to lie in the harbor
adrift of insecurely fastened.
   (E)   Vessels, craft, or floats moving with the current shall have the
right-of-way.
   (F)   In case one vessel desires to pass another going in the same direction
in the harbor, the pilot of the vessel astern shall give the proper signal,
indicating the side upon which he or she wishes to pass. Upon the pilot of one
vessel astern of another giving the signal, the pilot of the vessel ahead shall
immediately answer by giving the same signal; but if he or she does not think
it safe for the vessel astern to attempt to pass at that point, he or she shall
immediately signify the same by giving several short and rapid blasts of the
whistle, and under no circumstances shall the steamer astern attempt to pass
the steamer ahead until a time as they have reached a point where it can be
safely done, when the vessel ahead shall signify its willingness by blowing the
proper signals and then the vessel astern shall pass the overtaken vessel,
giving the overtaken vessel as wide a berth as possible.
   (G)   The vessel dispatcher shall keep a record of the movements of all
vessels, and through the bridge telephone operators give the directions to the
bridge tenders or persons in charge of the bridges in regard to the opening of
bridges that the provisions of this chapter may be carried out.
(Prior Code, § 101.18) Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.046 BRIDGES; OPENING, SIGNALS, AND PASSING.
   (A)   Duration of keeping bridge open during certain hours. During the hours
between 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m., it is unlawful to keep open any bridge within
the city, for the purpose of permitting vessels to pass through the same, for a
longer period at one time than 15 minutes. At the expiration of the period, it
shall be the duty of the bridge tender or other person in charge of the bridge
to display the proper signal and immediately close the bridge and keep it
closed for fully 15 minutes for persons waiting to pass over. If more time
shall be required for vessels, the bridge shall be opened again, for vessels to
pass, for a 15-minute period and so on alternately, if necessary, during the
hours designated in this section.
(Prior Code, § 101.19)
   (B)   Signals for vessels on bridges. The Board of Public Safety shall
provide and maintain, at the several bridges over the Grand Calumet River and
its branches and the Indiana Harbor Ship Canal, over which the city has
jurisdiction, in the best and most practicable manner, vessel signals as
required by these sections or as otherwise required by the federal government.
(Prior Code, § 101.20)
   (C)   Opening bridges for vessels.
      (1)   Every owner, officer, or person in charge of any vessel passing up
or down any part of the harbor shall sound or cause to be sounded a whistle to
signal bridge tenders to open and swing bridges. The signal shall be three
sharp, short sounds of the whistle, to be given in succession as quickly as
possible and not be prolonged, and the whistle used for this purpose shall be
of suitable size to be heard.
      (2)   (a)   When any vessel shall signal for any bridge, the bridge
tender shall immediately open the bridge.
         (b)   If, from any cause, the bridge tender cannot open the bridge, he
or she shall immediately notify the vessel by waving a red flag by day and a
red lantern by night and continue waving the same until the bridge can be
opened. As soon as the cause for stopping the vessel has been removed, the
bridge shall be immediately opened.
         (c)   It is unlawful for the owner, officer, or other person in charge
of a vessel in transit to attempt to navigate any vessel past any of the
bridges while stop signals are being given or displayed.
      (3)   (a)   When any vessel shall signal for any railroad bridge over the
Grand Calumet River or the Indiana Harbor Ship Canal or any of its branches,
the bridge tender shall immediately open the bridge, unless a train be on the
bridge or approaching it so closely as to be unable to stop, and in that case
the bridge may be kept closed long enough for the passage of one train and no
more.
         (b)   If, from any cause, the bridge tender cannot open the bridge, he
or she shall comply with division (C)(2) above.
         (c)   It is unlawful for the owner, officer, or other person in charge
of any vessel to attempt to pass any bridge while a stop signal is being given
or displayed by the bridge tender.
(Prior Code, § 101.21)
   (D)   Manner of passing bridges. All vessels, steamboats, propellers, tugs,
or other craft navigating the harbor, when passing any bridge, shall be moved
past the same as expeditiously as is consistent with a proper movement in the
harbor, but in no case shall any craft, while passing any bridge and
obstructing the passage across the bridge, move at a rate of speed less than
two mph and in no case shall any vessel, steamboat, propeller, tug, or other
craft, while passing any bridge and obstructing the same, remain, or obstruct
the passage across the bridge more than ten minutes; and no vessel, craft, or
float shall be so anchored, laid, moored, or fastened or brought to a stop as
to prevent any bridge from a free and speedy opening, as to prevent any bridge
from a free and direct passage, nor shall any line or fastening be so thrown,
laid, or made fast as to cross the track of any bridge or vessel, under a
penalty of violating the provisions of this chapter, provided, that the
regulations hereunder shall be in compliance with lawful federal regulations.
In the event of difference between local and proper federal regulations, the
federal regulations exclusively shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 101.22)
Penalty, see §
96.999
§ 96.047 DAMAGE AND ACCIDENTS TO DOCKS, PIERS, AND BRIDGES.
   (A)   Damage to bridges.
      (1)   (a)   Whenever any person having charge of any vessel, craft, or
float shall wish to move the same past any bridge, reasonable time shall be
allowed for the opening of the bridge.
         (b)   Any person who shall move any vessel, craft, or float against
any bridge before the same shall be opened shall be deemed guilty of violating
the provisions of this chapter and shall also be answerable to the city for
damages.
      (2)   Whenever any person having charge of any vessel, craft, or float
shall wish to move the same through the draw of any bridge, reasonable time
shall be allowed for the opening of the same; and any person who shall move any
vessel, craft, or float against any bridge or the center or protection piers
thereof before the same shall be opened to the injury thereof, and any person
who shall otherwise, through willfulness or negligence, run any vessel, craft,
or float into any bridge or abutment thereof, or allow the vessel, craft, or
float to be driven or run into the piers, cribs, docks, bridge, or abutment, or
who shall take any stones from the crib for ballast or any other purpose shall,
upon conviction, be subject to the penalty provided in this chapter and shall,
in addition, be liable for all damages thus caused. Any vessel, craft, or
float, whose owner, master, or other person in charge shall become liable as
provided in this section, shall also be chargeable with the payment of the
penalty and damages and amounts shall be and constitute a lien on a vessel,
craft, or float to be enforced as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 101.23)
   (B)   Report of accidents to docks, piers, and bridges. The managing owner,
agent, or master of any vessel, craft, or float who shall run any vessel,
craft, or float into any of the docks, piers, clumps, bridges, or abutment or
allow the vessel, craft, or float to be driven or run into the pier, dock,
clump, bridge, or abutment shall make immediately a report, in writing, to the
Harbor Master of the Chief of Police signed by the managing owner, agent, or
master of the vessel and shall state the name and official number of the
vessel, the port to which it belongs, the place where it was, the nature and
probable cause of and the reason for the injury.
(Prior Code, § 101.24)
§ 96.048 EXAMINATIONS AND REPORTS OF DEFECTIVE DANGEROUS PLACES ON BRIDGES.
   The bridge tenders shall immediately report to the Supervisor of Public
Works all defective and dangerous places upon their respective bridges and the
approaches thereto, which shall come to their notice, and in the performance of
their duties they shall particularly examine the bridges and the approaches
thereto and make the report as provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 101.25)
§ 96.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter,
for which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of § 10.99.
      (2)   Domesticated animals. Any person violating the provisions of §
96.010 or any owner of a domesticated animal who violates provisions of §
96.010 shall be fined in any sum not exceeding an amount as set by the city
from time to time for each offense.
      (3)   Loitering in Koscuisko Park. Any person violating the provisions of
§
96.015 shall be fined in any sum not exceeding an amount as set by the city
from time to time for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 100.99) (Ord. 3405, passed - -1985)
CHAPTER 97: STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.001   Prohibited discharges
   
97.002   Parades, processions, and open-air meetings
   
97.003   Unlawful assemblies
   
97.004   Skating
   
97.005   Soliciting business
   
97.006   Cleanliness of crosswalks and alleys
   
97.007   Mail delivery
Obstructions
   
97.020   Removal
   
97.021   Night lights
   
97.022   Temporary storage of certain fuels
   
97.023   Boxes and crates
   
97.024   Display or storage of merchandise
   
97.025   Fixtures for display of goods
Public Improvements
   
97.040   Injuring or hindering construction
   
97.041   Gas and water fixtures
   
97.042   Construction of wires and pipes
   
97.043   Building upon public ways
Street Grades
   
97.055   Grading authority
   
97.056   Establishment methods; intersection of streets defined
   
97.057   Public works
   
97.058   Unpaved alleys
   
97.059   City datum
   
97.060   Injuring or moving bench monuments
Excavations
   
97.075   Permit
   
97.076   Denial of future permits
   
97.077   Bond
   
97.078   Pavement restoration
   
97.079   Applicability of subchapter
   
97.080   Openings; protection; notification of Police and Fire Departments
   
97.081   Repair deposit
Street Lamps
   
97.095   Erection; control
   
97.096   Injury or destruction prohibited
   
97.097   Acceptance of posts
   
97.098   Unauthorized removal
   
97.099   Shading
   
97.100   Lighting or extinguishing
Subsurface Space
   
97.115   Permit to construct or use
   
97.116   Bond
   
97.117   Interference with sewer or water pipe
   
97.118   Conveyance of premises
   
97.119   Covers over openings
   
97.120   Structural safety
   
97.121   Care of sidewalks
   
97.122   Cesspools, explosives, or flammable oils
   
97.123   Liability for damages
Driveways
   
97.135   Construction permit
   
97.136   Specifications
   
97.137   Compliance with chapter
   
97.138   Existing driveways
Numbering of Buildings and Blocks
   
97.150   System established
   
97.151   Assigning and placing of numbers
   
97.152   Display and size of numbers
   
97.153   Numbers obtained from City Clerk
   
97.154   Compliance required; when
   
97.155   Duty of owner or occupant
   
97.156   Destroying or defacing numbers
   
97.157   Violations recorded by police
   
97.158   Memorial street naming
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.001 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Discharge of offensive liquids and substances. No person shall suffer
any slops, dirty water, or other liquid of offensive smell or which is
otherwise noxious or unwholesome or any fluid, substance, or offensive smell or
otherwise noxious or unwholesome to flow from his or her premises into or upon
any street, gutter, sidewalk, alley, or public place in the city, nor shall any
person place, throw, or leave any noxious, offensive, or unwholesome matter or
substance in or upon any lot, lands, sidewalk, street, alley, parkway, or
public way in the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.001)
   (B)   Discharge of water from eaves of buildings. Every person owning a
building shall cause the pipes conducting the water from the eaves of the
building to be so constructed as not to spread the water over the sidewalk or
to undermine the sidewalk, alley, or street.
(Prior Code, § 97.002)
§ 97.002 PARADES, PROCESSIONS, AND OPEN-AIR MEETINGS.
   No parade or procession shall be allowed upon any public way, nor shall any
open-air public meeting held in or upon any public way or upon any ground
abutting upon any public way until a permit in writing therefor shall first be
obtained from the Chief of Police. Application to conduct a parade or
procession or open-air meeting shall be made in writing to the Chief of Police
by the person in charge or control thereof or responsible therefor and the
application shall set forth the route along which the parade or procession is
to proceed, the time of starting, and the name of the person in control thereof
or responsible therefor, and the purpose of the parade and procession. In case
of an open-air meeting, the application shall specify the place at which it is
desired to hold a meeting, the purpose thereof, and the name of the person in
control thereof or responsible therefor, the time at which the public meeting
is to be held, and the probable duration. Upon an application being made, the
Chief of Police shall investigate or cause to be investigated the person making
the application and the truth of the statements made in the application
regarding the purpose or object of the parade, procession, or open-air meeting,
and, if he or she shall find that the parade, procession, or open-air meeting
is to be held for any lawful purpose and will not in any manner tend to a
breach of the peace or unnecessarily interfere with the public use of the
public ways of the city or the peace and quiet of the inhabitants thereof, he
or she shall issue a permit to the person or society making application
therefor, without fee or charge. Upon refusal of the permit, an appeal may be
made to the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 97.003) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.003 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for three or more persons to assemble, except at a
public meeting of citizens, on any of the sidewalks, street corners, street
crossings, or near the mouths of alleys in this city, to the obstruction of the
same, so as to hinder, delay, or annoy persons passing in, upon, or along the
same, or the owners or occupants of property adjacent thereto, or for any
persons so assembled to make use of any offensive personal remarks upon the
passerby.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prohibit
peaceful, lawful picketing.
(Prior Code, § 97.004) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.004 SKATING.
   It is unlawful for any person to skate on roller or ice skates upon any
public way in the city except on the sidewalks and at street intersections
while crossing from one side of the street to the other or except upon properly
designated and barricaded play streets.
(Prior Code, § 97.005) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.005 SOLICITING BUSINESS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, including the owner of any business
adjacent to or near the public way, either in person or through others, to
stand upon, use, or occupy the public ways to solicit trade, customers, or
patronage for a business or to interfere with or impede any pedestrian or any
one in a vehicle on a public way for the purpose of soliciting business.
   (B)   Any soliciting of business on any public way is declared to be a
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 97.006) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.006 CLEANLINESS OF CROSSWALKS AND ALLEYS.
   It is made the duty of the Director of Maintenance Services Department to
cause the crosswalks and alley crossings to be kept open and free from snow
during the winter months and free from dirt and dust during the year.
(Prior Code, § 97.007) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.007 MAIL DELIVERY.
   All residential mail delivery within the city shall be made directly to the
particular premises to which it is addressed on a door to door basis, unless
the United States postal service or its successors are specifically requested
not to do so by the residents of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 97.180) (Ord. 3104, passed - -1976)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 97.020 REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Supervisor of Public Works is authorized to obey any article or
thing whatsoever which may encumber or obstruct any public way or place within
the city to be removed.
   (B)   If an article or thing shall not be removed within six hours after
notice to the owner or person in charge thereof to remove the same or, if the
owner cannot be readily found for the purpose of notice, the Supervisor of
Public Works shall cause the same to be removed to some suitable place to be
designated by the Supervisor.
   (C)   The owner of any article so removed shall be subject to the penalty
provided in this code.
(Prior Code, § 97.020) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.021 NIGHT LIGHTS.
   Any person having the use of any portion of the street or sidewalk for the
purpose of erecting or repairing any building or for any other business or
proper purpose shall cause two red lights to be placed and to be kept burning
in a conspicuous place, one at each end of the obstruction, from dusk until
sunrise in the morning each night during the time the obstruction remains.
(Prior Code, § 97.021) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.022 TEMPORARY STORAGE OF CERTAIN FUELS.
   It is unlawful for any person, except upon express permission from the
Supervisor of Public Works or the Board of Public Works first obtained to
place, dump, or deposit for a period of over 48 hours, any coal, wood, or other
fuel or anything which may impede or obstruct the free use of any public way by
the public, or anything which tends to scatter or which is unsightly or causes
annoyance to others in or upon alleys, streets, city grounds, parks, or public
ways or places; provided, that building materials to be used soon in the
construction of buildings may be stored to a reasonable degree in public ways;
provided further, that the provisions for lights required in §
97.021 shall be followed.
(Prior Code, § 97.022) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.023 BOXES AND CRATES.
   It is unlawful for any person to place or store, maintain, or keep any
boxes, barrels, crates, or other material upon any part or portion of any
street, sidewalk, or alley, within the city; provided, that merchants and
business persons shall have the right to place boxes, barrels, crates, and
merchandise upon two feet of the outer portion of any sidewalk adjacent to
their place of business, during the time the same are being loaded and
unloaded, but none of the boxes, barrels, crates, or merchandise shall be
permitted to remain upon a portion of the sidewalk for a longer period than two
hours.
(Prior Code, § 97.023) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.024 DISPLAY OR STORAGE OF MERCHANDISE.
   It is unlawful for any person to use any part or portion of any sidewalk,
street, alley, or public way in the city, for the purpose of storing,
exhibiting, or displaying thereon or therein any goods, foods, wares,
merchandise, hardware, implements, vehicles, or any other articles or personal
property of any description whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 97.024) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.025 FIXTURES FOR DISPLAY OF GOODS.
   It is unlawful for any person to build, erect, construct, or maintain any
showcase of any nature or description, any rack or stand, hooks or brackets, or
other device or arrangement upon which to display goods, so that the same shall
project over or occupy any part or portion of any sidewalk, street, or alley in
the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.025) Penalty, see §
10.999
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 97.040 INJURING OR HINDERING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall injure or tear up any pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk,
drain, sewer, or an other public improvement without authority from the Board
of Public Works.
   (B)   No person shall hinder or obstruct the making or repairing of any
public way without authority from the Board of Public Works.
   (C)   Any person who shall injure or tear up any pavement, sidewalk,
crosswalk, drain, or sewer, without due authority or who shall injure or
obstruct any person employed by the Common Council or Supervisor of Public
Works or the person employed by him or her, in making or repairing any public
improvement or work ordered by the Common Council or Board of Public Works
shall, upon conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of violating the provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.040) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.041 GAS AND WATER FIXTURES.
   It is unlawful for any person to build, erect, or construct any escape pipe,
plugs, or shutoff valve or water, artificial gas, natural gas, oil, or other
pipes so that the same shall project above the flush level of any sidewalk,
street, or alley in the city; provided, that the provisions of this section
shall not be deemed to apply to fire plugs.
(Prior Code, § 97.041) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.042 CONSTRUCTION OF WIRES AND PIPES.
   No person shall construct or maintain, except as expressly provided by this
code, any wire, pipe, conduit, track, bay window, or other structure or device
over or underneath the surface of any public way without first having
petitioned and obtained specific authority by ordinance adopted by the Common
Council authorizing the privilege.
(Prior Code, § 97.042) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.043 BUILDING UPON PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   No person shall erect or place any building or other structure, in
whole or in part, upon any public way or other public ground within the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this section prohibiting structures upon public ways
shall not be construed to include United States mail boxes, police or fire
alarm signal posts or boxes, public foundations, waste paper receptacles, and
other structures as may be legally authorized by the proper authorities in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 97.043) Penalty, see §
10.999
STREET GRADES
§ 97.055 GRADING AUTHORITY.
   Grades of all streets, alleys, and sidewalks in the city shall be fixed or
changed by the Board of Public Works, and the records of the action thereof
shall be maintained by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 97.055) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.056 ESTABLISHMENT METHODS; INTERSECTION OF STREETS DEFINED.
   (A)   Street grades shall be established along the curb lines of the streets
and shall run in a straight line from the established grade at any street
intersection to the established grade at the intersection of the next street
thereto or to any established street grade between the intersections of the
streets.
   (B)   The term INTERSECTION OF STREETS shall be taken as the intersection of
curb lines produced at all intersecting and abutting streets.
(Prior Code, § 97.056) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.057 PUBLIC WORKS.
   All public works and public improvements shall be construed in conformity
with the street grade elevations established by the Board of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 97.057) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.058 UNPAVED ALLEYS.
   The grades of the side lines of each unpaved alley in the city at its
intersection of streets shall conform to the sidewalk grades of streets,
respectively and from the intersection shall rise at the rate of six inches in
each 100 feet to meet at a summit.
(Prior Code, § 97.058) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.059 CITY DATUM.
   The city datum, from which all elevations and the height of all grades shall
be measured in feet and decimal fractions of a foot and for the purpose of
fixing and establishing the level of the base or datum line, is declared to be
at the City Hall, about 42 yards north of the building, about 28 yards east of
the center line of Indianapolis Boulevard at the flag pole and in the top of
the concrete base as a standard disk stamped “East Chicago” 1934 (178.744
meters or 586.429 feet).
(Prior Code, § 97.059)
§ 97.060 INJURING OR MOVING BENCH MONUMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to cover up, conceal, deface, obliterate, or
in any manner to injure, erase, disfigure, or change the location of any of the
standard bench monuments which have heretofore been established or which may
hereafter be established by the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.060) Penalty, see §
10.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 97.075 PERMIT.
   (A)   Required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, it is unlawful
for any person to injure or to make an opening in, or tear up any public way or
other public place without first obtaining a written permit to do so from the
Board of Public Works. It is unlawful to dig any ditch or drain or to remove
any sod, stone, earth, sand, or gravel from any public way or public ground in
the city without first having obtained a written permit from the Board of
Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 97.075)
   (B)   Application. All applications for permits which are required under
division (A) above shall be made in writing to the Board of Public Works and
shall contain exact descriptions, specifications, and diagrams, as requested,
showing the time, place, and character of the opening and the purpose thereof
and other facts which the Board may deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 97.076)
   (C)   Conditions on issuance. The Board of Public Works shall not issue any
permit for breaking into any public way until it has been fully advised of the
time and place of the opening and the purpose thereof and shall have an
estimate of the cost of inspection and of restoring the pavement and surface to
a condition equally as good as it was before it was opened, with a fair
additional sum as margin for contingent damages. The Board may, if in its
opinion it is necessary, require the work to be done under authority of a
permit to be supervised and inspected by either the City Engineer or a
competent Inspector appointed by him or her. If the city deems it necessary to
place an Inspector in charge of the work, the expense of supervision and
inspection by the Inspector shall be charged to the person whom the permit was
issued, and the amount of the expense shall be paid by the person.
(Prior Code, § 97.077)
§ 97.076 DENIAL OF FUTURE PERMITS.
   Any person, having obtained a permit as provided in this chapter and having
done work thereunder, who shall have failed or refused to prosecute the work
thereunder in compliance with the provisions of this chapter or the terms of
the permit and who shall have violated the provisions of this chapter or shall
have failed, in any manner, to perform and complete the work in a good and
workmanlike manner, may be refused permission by the Board for the construction
of any more proposed work and may be denied any other permit unless and until
the same shall be ordered by the Common Council after a full hearing.
(Prior Code, § 97.078)
§ 97.077 BOND.
   It is unlawful for any person to tear up, remove, or repair any public way,
or any part thereof, without first filing with the Clerk of the Board of Public
Works a good and sufficient bond executed to the city in an amount to be fixed
by the Board and in no case to be less than an amount as set by the city from
time to time, with sureties to be approved by the Board conditioned to
indemnify, save, and keep harmless the city from any and all loss, cost,
damage, expense, or liability of any kind whatsoever which the city may suffer
or which the city may be put to or which may be recovered from the city, from
or on account of the issuance of the permit or from or on account of any act or
thing done by virtue of the authority given in a permit or for any damage,
loss, or expense to any person caused by the tearing up, repairing, or removing
of a public way or part thereof and further conditioned that the applicant will
complete the work in a workmanlike manner and properly fill in the opening and
excavation and replace any surface that may have been displaced in as good
condition as before the excavation had been made and shall in all respects save
the city harmless from any cost, loss, or damage. The bond shall be in effect
for a period of not less than one year.
(Prior Code, § 97.079) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.078 PAVEMENT RESTORATION.
   Immediately after the completion of the work done under authority of the
permit, the City Engineer or the Inspector appointed by him or her shall see
that any surface or pavement of any public way, which may have been displaced
by reason of any work done under the permit, is restored and replaced in proper
shape and condition and that the surface of any public way or public place
which may have been opened or otherwise disturbed, under the authority of any
permit, has been restored to a condition equally as good as it was before being
opened or disturbed under authority of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 97.080)
§ 97.079 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to every person who
shall place building material in any of the public streets or avenues or who
shall be engaged in building any vault or constructing any lateral drain from
any cellar to any public sewer or who shall do or perform any work causing
obstructions in the public streets by virtue of any permit from an executive
department and also to all city officers and employees engaged in performing
any work in behalf of the city, whereby obstructions or excavations shall be
made in the public streets.
   (B)   No department, division, bureau, or officer of the city, except the
City Engineer or Supervisor of Public Works in an absolute and extreme
emergency, shall have the power to grant a permit or permission to any person
to dig or make an opening in any public way in the city without a written
permit as required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.081)
§ 97.080 OPENINGS; PROTECTION; NOTIFICATION OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   All openings made in streets, alleys, sidewalks, or any other public place
shall be protected at all hours by sufficient barriers on which signal lights
or flares shall be placed and maintained after dark. It shall be the duty of
the master plumber to notify Police and Fire Departments when the streets,
alleys, sidewalks, or any other public place are fully obstructed.
(Prior Code, § 97.082) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.081 REPAIR DEPOSIT.
   The amount of deposit required for the repairs for each opening of any
street, alley, sidewalk, parkway, or any other public place shall be an amount
as set by the city from time to time, payable to the City Controller.
(Prior Code, § 97.083) Penalty, see §
10.999
STREET LAMPS
§ 97.095 ERECTION; CONTROL.
   All street lamp posts and lamps of the city shall be erected by the city
electrician, who shall have control over the lamp posts and lamps.
(Prior Code, § 97.095) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.096 INJURY OR DESTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall break, deface, or in any way injure or destroy any street
light or tie any animal, hang, or place any goods or merchandise or place any
goods, boxes, wood, or other heavy material upon or against any street lamp or
lamp post in the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.096) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.097 ACCEPTANCE OF POSTS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized and directed to
accept, on behalf of the city, all bills of sale presented to it by any person
doing business in the city, conveying, or assigning or transferring to the city
the ownership of any electric light poles or telegraph or telephone poles
having street lighting, alarm, or other equipment of the city, which the Board
shall deem necessary or desirable for the use of the city.
   (B)   The city electrician shall, upon acceptance of poles by the city,
cause all previous marks of ownership to be removed and shall immediately
thereafter mark them indicating the city’s ownership of the poles.
(Prior Code, § 97.097) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.098 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL.
   No person, without permission from the city electrician, approved by the
Board of Public Works, shall take up, remove, or carry away any street lamp
posts of the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.098) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.099 SHADING.
   (A)   Upon order of the Board of Public Works, the city electrician is
authorized to cause to be installed, a device on street lamps, brackets, or
poles of the city for the purpose of diverting direct rays of light which
interfere with the comfort or are detrimental to the health of persons residing
near the lamp.
   (B)   No person, other than the duly authorized employees of the Electric
and Light Division, shall place or attempt to place on any post any device for
the obstruction of the light of a street lamp or shall interfere with a device
placed in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.099) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.100 LIGHTING OR EXTINGUISHING.
   No person, unless authorized by proper authority, shall at any time light or
extinguish or cause to be lighted or extinguished, any street light or lamp of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.100) Penalty, see §
10.999
SUBSURFACE SPACE
§ 97.115 PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT OR USE.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   No person shall construct for use, except as otherwise provided in
this subchapter, any space underneath the surface of any public way or other
public ground in the city or construct, install, and maintain any structure
thereunder or disturb the sidewalk or a public way or other public ground for
the purpose of using, constructing, and maintaining any vault or structure
thereunder or any coal hole, trap door, areaway, grating, hyatt light, or glass
prisms or any other opening therein, without first obtaining a permit to do so
from the Building Commissioner.
      (2)   No person shall use any space underneath any public way if, after
written request by the Commissioner, any person now using any space shall fail
to take out a permit for the use showing the structural soundness of the
subsidewalk space construction as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.115)
   (B)   Application. Application for permits for new construction under this
subchapter shall be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the gross
measurements of the vault to be constructed hereafter, together with all
openings in the surface over the same and the sketch or diagram shall be
approved by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 97.116)
   (C)   Cancellation. Whenever any party holding a permit for the construction
or maintenance of any sidewalk space shall desire to have the permit canceled,
the Building Commissioner shall cancel the same, but the permit and the bond
given therewith shall remain in full force and effect as to all rights and
liabilities accruing under the same.
(Prior Code, § 97.117)
   (D)   Revocation.
      (1)   All permits issued for the use of subsidewalk space shall be
subject to revocation in whole or in part by the Building Commissioner whenever
it is necessary for a public purpose. The permittee or owner shall have the
right to appeal to the Board of Public Safety from an adverse ruling of the
Building Commissioner.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued except upon the agreement of the party to
whom the same is issued that the vault or space, or any portion thereof,
required to be vacated shall be vacated within 30 days after the Building
Commissioner shall have given notice of revocation of the permit; provided,
that the Board of Public Safety shall have the power to extend the time of
vacation or revocation.
      (3)   Permits which shall be issued under this chapter may be revoked by
the Board of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 97.118)
§ 97.116 BOND.
   (A)   Every applicant for a permit authorizing the disturbing of a sidewalk
for the construction and maintenance of any coal hole, trap door, or other
opening therein, shall file with the application, a bond in the penal sum of an
amount as set by the city from time to time with sureties to be approved by the
Board of Public Safety. The bond shall be conditioned that the person to whom
the permit shall be issued, his or her heirs, successors, or assigns will save
and keep the city free and harmless from any and all loss or damage or claim of
damage arising from or out of the construction or use of the space, structure,
vault, coal hole, trap door, or other opening therein mentioned; and for the
maintenance of the public way or the sidewalk over the space containing the
hole, trap door, or other opening, as the case may be, in a condition that the
public way or the sidewalk shall, at all times after the structure, coal hole,
trap door, or other opening is completed or the space is covered, be safe for
public use and conditioned for the full and complete protection of the city
against any and all litigation growing out of the granting of the permit or
anything done under the permit and conditioned further for the faithful
performance and observance of various provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever the Board of Public Safety determines that the sureties on
any bond given for any permit issued thereunder have become insufficient, a new
bond for the permit shall be filed with the sureties to be approved by the
Board.
(Prior Code, § 97.119) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.117 INTERFERENCE WITH SEWER OR WATER PIPE.
   No person shall use his or her subsidewalk space in any manner to interfere
with any sewer, water pipe, or any work lawfully in the public way, without the
express consent of the Board of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 97.120) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.118 CONVEYANCE OF PREMISES.
   Any person to whom a permit for the use of subsidewalk space shall have been
granted under the terms of this subchapter, or who has given a bond for the
occupation of space under any sidewalk under any provisions of this subchapter,
who has conveyed his or her interest in the premises for which the permit is
issued, shall notify the Board of Public Safety, in writing, and shall furnish
in writing the name and address of the purchaser. The new purchaser must again
apply for a permit in the same manner as the original permittee.
(Prior Code, § 97.121) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.119 COVERS OVER OPENINGS.
   (A)   Every opening in any vault or coal hole or aperture in the sidewalk
over a coal hole or vault shall be covered with a substantial metal plate with
a rough surface to prevent accidents and the entire construction of the coal
holes and vaults shall be subject to the reasonable direction and supervision
of the City Engineer. The cover shall be kept sufficiently strong and safe.
   (B)   No person shall remove or insecurely fix, cause, procure, or permit to
be removed or to be insecurely fixed so that the same can be moved in its bed,
any grate or covering of any coal hole, vault, or chute under any public way or
other public place; provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the
owner or occupant of the building with which the coal hole, vault, or chute
shall be connected, from removing the grate or covering for the proper use of
the opening, in case he or she incloses the opening or aperture, and keeps the
same inclosed while the grate or covering shall be removed, with a proper guard
or curb at least 24 inches high, firmly and securely made; provided further,
that he or she shall not remove the grate or covering until after sunrise of
any day and shall replace the grate or covering before one-half hour after
sunset.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person owning or using any coal hole, outside
stairway, or any other opening in any public sidewalk to allow the same to
remain uncovered or opened, except while the same is actually being used for
the purpose of an entrance or exit or for the purpose of introducing or
removing any article or materials through an opening.
(Prior Code, § 97.122) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.120 STRUCTURAL SAFETY.
   Whenever any coal hole, vault, or any aperture constructed in any sidewalk
is not covered or secured as provided in this subchapter, or is unsafe or
inconvenient for public travel, the Board of Public Safety may order the same
to be placed in a safe condition and if the same shall not be done within 15
days from the service of notice upon the owner or person in possession of the
premises, the Supervisor of Public Safety may make the change and the expense
thereof shall be charged against the owner or person in possession of the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 97.123) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.121 CARE OF SIDEWALKS.
   Every person using the space under any sidewalk shall at all times keep the
sidewalk in good condition and repair and free from all snow, ice, dirt, filth,
or other obstructions or incumbrances.
(Prior Code, § 97.124) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.122 CESSPOOLS, EXPLOSIVES, OR FLAMMABLE OILS.
   No cesspool shall be constructed or located for use or kept or operated and
no explosive substance or flammable oil or substance shall be stored or kept
for any purpose under any sidewalk and no excavations shall be ventilated into
the public ways unless the aperture or ventilating hole or opening shall be
securely covered as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 97.125) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.123 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   The owner and the person in possession of the abutting premises, in front of
which a coal hole or vault is constructed, shall be held jointly responsible to
the city for any and all damages to persons or property in consequence of any
defect in the construction of the vault or coal hole or for allowing the same
or any portion thereof, to remain out of repair, or for allowing the aperture
in the sidewalk to be left exposed and uncovered or for leaving the covering
insecure or unfastened. The owner shall be required to keep the vault or coal
hole, its walls and coverings in good order at all times.
(Prior Code, § 97.126) Penalty, see §
10.999
DRIVEWAYS
§ 97.135 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (A)   Required. No person shall construct build, establish, alter, or
maintain any driveway over, across, or upon any public sidewalk, curb, or
public parkway without first obtaining a written permit to do so from the Board
of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 97.140)
   (B)   Application. Any person desiring to construct, build, establish,
alter, or maintain a driveway shall make written application to the Board of
Public Works and shall submit specifications and plans which have first been
approved by the City Engineer together with any other information which the
Board may require. The Board shall thereupon make any investigation it deems
necessary, shall require certain specifications, and shall make reasonable
rules and regulations for the construction.
(Prior Code, § 97.141)
   (C)   Revocation. All permits issued under this subchapter may be revoked by
the Board of Public Works at any time without the consent of the grantee, in
which case the authority and permit granted shall thereupon cease and
terminate. Upon the termination by revocation or otherwise of the authority
rights and privileges granted by the permit, the driveway therein authorized
shall be removed and the sidewalk space where the same shall have been located,
shall be restored to its proper condition to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer, so that the portion of the sidewalk space used for the driveway shall
be safe for public travel and in the same condition as the remaining portion of
the sidewalk space. The restoration shall be made at the sole expense to the
grantee without cost or expense of any kind whatsoever to the city; provided,
that in the event of the failure, neglect, or refusal on the part of the
grantee to remove the driveway when directed to do so, the city may proceed to
remove the driveway and charge the expense to the grantee.
(Prior Code, § 97.142)
   (D)   Issuance. If the Board of Public Works, in its discretion, desires to
permit the construction of the driveway by the applicant, upon his or her
agreement to maintain the driveway properly with full right reserved in the
Board to order it sealed, it may do so.
(Prior Code, § 97.143)
Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.136 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Driveways which are to be built across the sidewalk space, unless
otherwise expressly authorized, shall conform, as much as possible, to the
sidewalk grade. The driveways shall be seven inches in depth and shall consist
of concrete. This work shall be done in the manner, and materials shall be of
the quality and proportions specified for portland cement concrete sidewalks.
   (B)   No driveway shall be so constructed as to prevent free and
unobstructed passage on, over, or across the same, or in a manner as to
interfere with the proper drainage and safe grading of the streets. Gradual
approaches to the regular sidewalk grade shall be made from the grade of the
driveway. The slope of any driveway and the approaches thereto shall not exceed
one inch vertical to one foot horizontal in any direction.
   (C)   All driveways shall be built in a manner that no sand or dirt from the
parkway shall be washed or carried into the street gutter by way of the
driveway. The Board of Public Works may require curbs to be built so that
driveways can meet the above specified requirements.
(Prior Code, § 97.144) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.137 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   Any driveway built, constructed, established, altered, or maintained in
violation of this subchapter is declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 97.145) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.138 EXISTING DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works shall have the right to number and plat all
existing driveways and to require proper repair and maintenance upon the
additional penalty of ordering the sealing of the driveways.
   (B)   The permittee shall be liable for any negligence in the maintenance of
the driveway and the city shall be impliedly exempt and indemnified against
liability therefrom by virtue of the permit granted or the use of the driveway.
(Prior Code, § 97.146) Penalty, see §
10.999
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS AND BLOCKS
§ 97.150 SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   There is established a uniform system of numbering all blocks, lots, and
buildings in the city fronting on all streets, alleys, and highways in the
city. This system shall be as follows:
From the northern limits of the city to the southern limits of the city, the
lots and blocks shall be numbered consecutively, increasing 100 numbers for
each block thereof, and on all blocks and lots running a general easterly and
westerly direction, the numbering of buildings shall commence at number one at
the waterways (conveyed to the United States of America, by deed, dated July 5,
1888, and recorded April 15, 1889, in Book 44, pages 472—475, in the Recorder’s
Office of the county) and shall number consecutively 100 for each block
thereof, from the west line of the waterway to the western limits of the city
and shall also commence with number one and shall number consecutively 100 for
each block running east from the east line of the waterway as above set out to
the eastern limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 97.160) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.151 ASSIGNING AND PLACING OF NUMBERS.
   The City Engineer shall make the necessary survey and shall assign a number
to each lot or part of lot, fronting on any street or avenue or public place
according to the plan, assigning odd numbers to one side and even numbers to
the other; giving to each lot a number that is practicable and he or she shall
keep a record of all numbers so assigned. The system of numbers and map of the
same prepared by the City Engineer and now on file in the office of the City
Clerk is in all things ratified and approved and all numbers hereafter issued
shall be issued according to a system and a record shall be made of the same in
the office of the City Clerk and all numbers heretofore issued that conflict
with the system shall be changed and made to conform to the system, and in
accordance herewith as new numbers are taken out.
(Prior Code, § 97.161) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.152 DISPLAY AND SIZE OF NUMBERS.
   The owner or occupant of every house or business place in the number
assigned to his or her lot or part of lot by the City Clerk in a conspicuous
place on the side thereof or above the front door of the house or building,
which number shall consist of figures not less than three inches in length and
so made or marked as to be distinctly and easily read. If there is a garage at
the rear of the property and the rear of the property is near an alley, the
rear address must be displayed on the side of the garage facing the alley. If
the rear of the property is not adjacent to an alley, no rear address is
required. The owner of every business place shall also place the number at the
rear of the building.
(Prior Code, § 97.162) (Ord. 0-05-0004, passed 3-14-2005) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.153 NUMBERS OBTAINED FROM CITY CLERK.
   Before any owner or occupant of any house or building shall place a number
on the same, he or she shall obtain from the City Clerk the number assigned to
his or her lot or part of lot and shall so place the number upon his or her lot
or part of lot occupied.
(Prior Code, § 97.163) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.154 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; WHEN.
   Every occupant of any building hereafter erected in this city shall within
30 days after the erection of the same, place a number upon the same, according
to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.164) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.155 DUTY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   It is made the duty of the owner, agent, or occupant of any building to
number it in the manner herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 97.165) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.156 DESTROYING OR DEFACING NUMBERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to take down, alter, deface, destroy,
mutilate, or cancel any number assigned to be placed upon any building or to
place, substitute, or permit to be placed, substituted, or retained, an
erroneous, illegible, or improper number upon any building.
(Prior Code, § 97.166) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 97.157 VIOLATIONS RECORDED BY POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of all police officers to record violations of any
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.167)
§ 97.158 MEMORIAL STREET NAMING.
   (A)   Whenever the Common Council determines to honor a person, or ethnic
group, or to designate a community, or historic area by naming a city street,
other public ways, or parts thereof or parcels of real estate which the City
Council has designated by Council ordinance as part of the city’s arterial
highway system; the public street, arterial highway, or part thereof, shall
retain its official name and its legal status, and a suitable sign or signs
memorializing the honoree(s) shall be installed at a location beneath the
official street name designated by proper Council resolution indicating the
name, ethnic group, community, or historical area to be so honored.
   (B)   The proposed resolution shall take effect and be in full force from
and after its passage by the Common Council and approval from the Mayor as
required by the ordinance codified in this section. The resolution shall be
prepared as follows:
Be it now ordered that the City Engineer is hereby authorized and directed to
give consideration to honorarily designate ___________from________to__________
memorializing the street to_____________.
(Prior Code, § 97.168) (Ord. 0-95-0008, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 98: SIDEWALKS AND CURBS
Section
General Provisions
   
98.001   Parkways
   
98.002   Depositing rinds or peelings
   
98.003   Removal of rubbish
   
98.004   Snow and ice removal
   
98.005   Driving animals
   
98.006   Sprinkling or throwing water
   
98.007   Openings
   
98.008   Awnings
   
98.009   Obstructing sidewalks
   
98.010   Dropping metal weights or other weights
Design Standards
   
98.025   Width
   
98.026   Level of sidewalk
   
98.027   Grade generally
   
98.028   Slope
   
98.029   Curbing
Construction and Repair
   
98.040   Compliance with chapter
   
98.041   General regulations
   
98.042   Permit to build or repair
   
98.043   Supervision of construction and repairs
   
98.044   Safety
   
98.045   Construction specifications
   
98.046   Nameplates
   
98.047   Repairs by property owner
   
98.048   Repairs by city
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.001 PARKWAYS.
   Upon improved streets where there remains a strip of ground between the curb
of the improved roadway and front lot line, according to the recorded plat of
the abutting real estate, that has not been specifically designated by the
Board of Public Works and Safety for a sidewalk or is not used for a sidewalk,
the strip of ground shall be denominated, known, and designated, as a parkway.
It is unlawful for any person to ride or drive any vehicle or animal upon or
across the parkway or to permit any animal to run, walk, or graze upon the
parkway or to place any rubbish or trash upon the same unless expressly
permitted by this code.
(Prior Code, § 98.01) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.002 DEPOSITING RINDS OR PEELINGS.
   No person shall place, put, throw, or deposit any watermelon rind or seeds
or the rind or seeds of any other kind of melon or any orange or banana peel or
any other slippery thing or substance on any sidewalk in this city or on any
steps leading from any sidewalk to any building.
(Prior Code, § 98.02) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.003 REMOVAL OF RUBBISH.
   No occupant of any lot or of the ground floor of any building or the owner
of any unoccupied lot or building within the city, shall permit or suffer to
remain upon the sidewalk opposite or in front of a lot or building, any beer
kegs, boxes, leaves, sand, or rubbish of any kind. Every owner or occupant who
shall refuse or neglect to remove beer kegs, boxes, leaves, sand, or rubbish,
within six hours after receiving notice, from or by direction of the Supervisor
of Public Works or any member of the police force, to remove the same, shall be
deemed guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 98.03) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.004 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   (A)   Ever owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or other person having charge of
any building or lot of ground in the city abutting upon any public way shall
remove the snow and ice on the sidewalk in front of the building or lot of
ground. If the sidewalk is of greater width than six feet, it shall not be
necessary for the person to remove snow or ice for a space wider than six feet.
   (B)   In case the snow and ice on the sidewalk shall be frozen so hard that
it cannot be removed without injury to the pavement, the person having charge
of any building or lot of ground as aforesaid shall, within the time specified,
cause the sidewalk abutting on the premises to be strewn with ashes, sand,
sawdust, or some similar suitable material and shall, as soon thereafter as the
weather shall permit, thoroughly clean the sidewalk.
   (C)   (1)   The snow which falls or accumulates during the day (excepting
Sundays) before 4:00 p.m. shall be removed within three hours after the same
has fallen or accumulated.
      (2)   The snow which falls or accumulates on Sunday or after 4:00 p.m.
and during the night on other days shall be removed before 10:00 a.m. in the
following morning.
(Prior Code, § 98.04) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.005 DRIVING ANIMALS.
   No person having the charge, custody, or control thereof shall suffer or
permit to go or lead or ride or drive, any horse or other animal of any kind,
except dogs or cats, upon any sidewalk in the city and no person shall lead,
ride, or drive any dray, cart, wagon, carriage, or other vehicle to which any
horse or other animal is attached on any of the sidewalks of this city.
(Prior Code, § 98.05) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.006 SPRINKLING OR THROWING WATER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to clean or sweep any sidewalk on a
business street, unless it shall have been first sprinkled with water or other
dust deterrent sufficient to avoid the raising of dust while being cleaned or
washed, except at times as when the sprinkling would be impossible on account
of frost.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to sweep carpets, rugs, or mats or to
deposit rubbish, dirt, or dust on any sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 98.06) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.007 OPENINGS.
   (A)   Leaving open. It is unlawful for any person to leave or keep open any
cellar, door, or grating of any window or vault on any sidewalk or street or to
suffer the same to be left or kept open so as to endanger life or limb.
(Prior Code, § 98.07)
   (B)   Protection. It is unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, use, or
operate in any part of any sidewalk within the city any open areas, areaway, or
other opening therein, without having the same equipped and maintained with
sufficient iron doors or shutters which, when closed, shall be flush with the
sidewalk and, when opened, the shutters shall stand perpendicularly and be
firmly held in place by iron rods or other appliances, which rods and shutters
or other appliances, when the areaway is open, shall be barriers and guards to
warn and protect pedestrians using the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 98.08)
Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.008 AWNINGS.
   (A)   Wooden. No wooden awnings or shade shall be put upon or over any
sidewalk in the city.
(Prior Code, § 98.09)
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   The awning bracket, arm, or frame of all cloth awnings now up or
which may hereafter be put up in the city shall be at the outer edge of the
awning at least seven feet above the level of the sidewalk.
      (2)   All curtains and borders on the awnings shall hang at least six
feet six inches above the level of the sidewalk.
      (3)   No person shall put up any awnings or suffer any awning to remain
contrary to the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 98.10)
Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.009 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall pile, deposit, place, or permit to be piled, deposited, or
placed, any rubbish, wood, coal dirt, impediment, stand, table, chair, or
obstruction of any kind upon or over any sidewalk or to occupy or obstruct any
sidewalk as to interfere with the convenient use of the same by the public.
(Prior Code, § 98.11) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.010 DROPPING METAL WEIGHTS OR OTHER WEIGHTS.
   No person shall throw, drop, or place any metal or other weight whereby the
sidewalk shall be chipped, defaced, or otherwise damaged.
(Prior Code, § 98.12) Penalty, see §
10.999
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 98.025 WIDTH.
   All sidewalks to be hereafter constructed on any portion of the public ways
of the city shall be not less than six feet in width except where any street is
so narrow in width as to prevent a sidewalk of this width, in which case the
Board of Public Works, upon recommendation of the City Engineer, may permit, in
writing, a narrower construction. Sidewalks not to exceed two feet in width may
be constructed adjoining the curb to permit access to and from vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 98.25) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.026 LEVEL OF SIDEWALK.
   No part of any sidewalk or sidewalk space shall be taken for private use by
lowering or cutting down the same next to the building or railing off the same
by any wooden or iron railing or by shutting off the public from using the
same; and the sidewalk shall not be raised next to the building by constructing
a platform of wood, iron, concrete, or stone, but the sidewalk shall be built
flush up to the building on a uniform grade as provided in §
98.027.
(Prior Code, § 98.26) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.027 GRADE GENERALLY.
   (A)   The grade for sidewalks shall be fixed, established, or changed by the
Board of Public Works and a record of the same shall be kept on file and be
accessible to the public.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall build or assist in building any sidewalk where
no grade has been established by the Board of Public Works or is contrary to
any established grade.
      (2)   All sidewalks heretofore constructed which do not conform to the
established grade shall be relaid to the proper grade by the owner of the
abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 98.27) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.028 SLOPE.
   All sidewalks shall be so constructed that when completed, the top surface
shall coincide with the grade of the space between the curb line and the street
line, which grade shall be a uniform incline, from the curb line towards the
street line, with a rise of one inch in every three feet.
(Prior Code, § 98.28) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.029 CURBING.
   (A)   Whenever it is necessary to construct curbing or a “blind curb” in
connection with a cement sidewalk, the curb shall consist of concrete mixed of
materials and in proportion as in this chapter specified for concrete walks;
the blind curb shall extend 18 inches below the top of the sidewalk.
   (B)   When finished, it shall present a true and perfectly plumb appearance,
shall be free from buckles and bulges and all joints shall be straight and
clean cut.
   (C)   The curb shall be seven inches in thickness.
(Prior Code, § 98.29) Penalty, see §
10.999
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 98.040 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   It is unlawful for any person to construct, lay, rebuild, or disturb any
sidewalk or any public way of the city except in compliance with the provisions
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 98.40) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.041 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   All work shall be done according to plans, specifications in this code, and
ordinances of the city. All work shall be properly barricaded and warning
lights shall be kept on barricades from one-half hour after sunset to one-half
hour before sunrise.
(Prior Code, § 98.41) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.042 PERMIT TO BUILD OR REPAIR.
   (A)   Required. No person shall build, rebuild, lay, remove, repair, or in
any manner disturb any sidewalk or any portion of the public ways of the city
without first having obtained a permit from the Board of Public Works
specifying the work to be done. Any violations of the terms of the permit shall
render it null and void.
(Prior Code, § 98.42)
   (B)   Application; plans and specifications. Any person desiring a permit to
built, rebuild, lay, remove, repair, or in any manner disturb any sidewalk or
public way shall first submit his or her plans and specifications to the City
Engineer for approval. Upon the approval of the City Engineer, the applicant
shall make written application to the Board of Public Works for a permit.
(Prior Code, § 98.43)
Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.043 SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIRS.
   All persons granted permits to build, rebuild, lay, remove, repair, or in
any manner disturb any sidewalk or any portion of a public way shall, in so
doing, be subject to the supervision of the City Engineer or the Supervisor of
Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 98.44) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.044 SAFETY.
   (A)   No sidewalk shall be constructed or repaired so that it prevents free
and unobstructed passage over, on, or across the same or in a manner as to
interfere with the proper drainage and safe grading of the street. While the
construction or repair of the sidewalk is being carried on, proper barricades
shall be maintained at all times and adequate red warning lights shall be
maintained from one hour after sunset until one hour before sunrise during the
time the obstruction or danger remains.
   (B)   No person shall, without consent of the City Engineer, Supervisor of
Public Works or Board of Public Works, remove any barricades herein required.
(Prior Code, § 98.45) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.045 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   Construction specifications for sidewalks within the city shall conform to
the State Highway Standards, § 604, Sidewalks and Steps.
(Prior Code, § 98.46) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.046 NAMEPLATES.
   (A)   Before the top or finishing of concrete walks has set, the contractor
or person building the walk shall place in a walk a front of each lot or parcel
of property a stamp or plate giving the name and address of the contractor or
person building the walk and the year in which the work was done. The top of
the plate or stamp, which must not cover more than 54-square inches of surface,
shall be flush and even with the top of the finished walk and must be of a
permanent character plainly stamped or firmly bedded in the concrete in a
manner that it cannot become loose or be easily removed or defaced.
   (B)   Wherever one contractor or person has laid walks in front of three or
more adjoining lots or parcels or property in one continuous stretch, one of
the above name stamps placed in the walk at each end of the stretch of walk
will be sufficient.
(Prior Code, § 98.47) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.047 REPAIRS BY PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all property owners abutting the public ways
of the city to keep their respective sidewalks in repair, in a safe condition,
and in compliance with this chapter and with law.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of any building or lot to permit the
sidewalk abutting thereon to become and remain out of repair, so as to become
dangerous and unsafe for pedestrian passage.
(Prior Code, § 98.48) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 98.048 REPAIRS BY CITY.
   (A)   When any property owner fails to repair his or her sidewalk abutting
the public ways of the city, the Supervisor of Public Works or other city
employees or officers may notify the owner or his or her agent.
   (B)   If, after 30 days’ notice, the property owner fails to make the
necessary repairs, the city may do so and charge the same against the property
owner.
(Prior Code, § 98.49) Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 99: TREES, PLANTS, AND SHRUBS
Section
General Provisions
   
99.001   Powers and duties of Board of Parks and Recreation
   
99.002   Permission to remove, plant, or destroy along public way
   
99.003   Injuring or destroying on public ways      
   
99.004   Maintenance of trees and lawns
   
99.005   Approval of trees; placement
   
99.006   Protection of trees during building construction
   
99.007   Attaching animals, signs, or other items to trees or shrubs
   
99.008   Removing or injuring protective devices
   
99.009   Open spaces around trees on public highways
   
99.010   Electrical devices near trees
   
99.011   Depositing salt in gutters
   
99.012   Gas leaks near trees
   
99.013   Removal of cottonwood trees or trees liable to fall
   
99.014   Certain trees declared nuisance
   
99.015   Overhanging branches
City Horticulturist
   
99.030   Powers
   
99.031   Duties
   
99.032   Interference
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.001 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF PARKS AND RECREATION.
   (A)   The Board of Parks and Recreation shall have the exclusive power to
order, control, and regulate the planting, trimming, maintaining, and removing
of shade trees, shrubs, vines, flowers, hedges, and plants along the
boulevards, streets, avenues, and other public ways of the city. The Board
shall also have the power to take over and control the improvement,
maintenance, and embellishment of all lawns, street centers, and parkways in
and along the boulevards, streets, avenues, and other public ways of the city.
   (B)   The Board shall have the right and power to compel the owner of lots
and parcels of land bordering on boulevards, streets, avenues, and other public
ways to plant, trim, protect, and maintain shade trees, and to sod, plant, and
maintain lawns, street centers, and parkways upon first adopting a resolution
and upon proceeding in the manner provided by law.
   (C)   The Board may make arrangements with property owners to make the
improvements mentioned in this section, by private contract, at the expense of
the owner, without levying assessments as the Board is empowered to do by law.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Parks and Recreation, with the cooperation of the
Board of Public Works, is authorized to order the planting, maintaining, and
protecting of shade trees and parkways along the residence streets of the city,
under the same regulations and in the same manner as grading, paving, and other
improvements of streets and sidewalks are now constructed and maintained.
      (2)   The expense of the same shall be a lien on lots and parcels of
ground so improved in the same manner and to the same extent as liens for
street improvements.
   (E)   The Board of Parks and Recreation and the Board of Public Works shall
cooperate at all times to beautify the city.
(Prior Code, § 99.01)
§ 99.002 PERMISSION TO REMOVE, PLANT, OR DESTROY ALONG PUBLIC WAY.
   It is unlawful for any person to remove, plant, injure, or destroy any tree,
vine, shrub, hedge, flower, or plant along any public way without first having
obtained permission from the City Horticulturist or other person properly
designated by the Superintendent of Public Parks with the approval of the Board
of Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 99.02) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.003 INJURING OR DESTROYING ON PUBLIC WAYS.
   No person shall cut, break, tear, deface, or otherwise injure or destroy any
grass plot, flower bed, ornamental or shade tree, or shrub other than his or
her own upon any sidewalk or other public way.
(Prior Code, § 99.03) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.004 MAINTENANCE OF TREES AND LAWNS.
   The owner of any lot or parcel of ground within the city bordering on any
residence, side street, or public way, excluding business districts, shall be
required and are ordered to plant, maintain, and protect shade trees and lawns
in and along the parkway, sidewalks, streets, and public ways under the
direction, control, and management of the Board of Park Commissioners of the
city or the City Horticulturist, and according to the plans, details, and
specifications of the City Engineer, as shall have been approved by the Board
of Parks and Recreation, and adopted and filed in the office of the Board of
Public Works of the city; and the expense of the improvements, if and when so
ordered by ordinance of the city, shall be a lien on the lots and parcels or
ground and shall be collected in the same manner as assessments for the
improvement of streets, as provided in I.C. 36-1-6-2.
(Prior Code, § 99.04) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.005 APPROVAL OF TREES; PLACEMENT.
   No shade or ornamental trees or shrubs shall be planted in or along any of
the public ways of the city until the tree or shrub and the place where it is
to be planted shall have been first approved, in writing, by the City
Horticulturist or other person designated by the Superintendent of Public
Parks, with the approval of the Board of Parks and Recreation.
(Prior Code, § 99.05) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.006 PROTECTION OF TREES DURING BUILDING CONSTRUCTION.
   In the erection, alteration, or repair of any building or structure, the
owner thereof shall place or cause to be placed guards around or nearby trees
in the public way as shall effectually prevent injury to the trees.
(Prior Code, § 99.06) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.007 ATTACHING ANIMALS, SIGNS, OR OTHER ITEMS TO TREES OR SHRUBS.
   No person shall fasten an animal or attach any rope, sign, handbill, or
other thing to any tree or shrub or to any protective device around any tree or
shrub growing in any public way or parkway of the city; nor shall any person
allow any animal to injure or deface any tree, plant, or shrub in any manner
whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 99.07) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.008 REMOVING OR INJURING PROTECTIVE DEVICES.
   No person shall remove, injure, or misuse any guard or device placed or
intended to protect any tree, plant, or shrub growing in any public way of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 99.08) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.009 OPEN SPACES AROUND TREES ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   No person shall place or maintain upon the ground in a public highway of the
city stone, cement, lumber, or other substance or material which shall impede
the free passage of water and air to any tree or shrub in the highway without
leaving an open space of ground outside the trunk of the tree or the base of
the shrub of an area not less than 16 square feet. Before depositing any
materials in any highway of the city near to trees or shrubs therein, the
person so depositing the material shall place guards around the trees and
shrubs as shall effectually prevent injury to the trees and shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 99.09) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.010 ELECTRICAL DEVICES NEAR TREES.
   (A)   No person shall without the written permit of the City Horticulturist
attach any electric wire, insulator, or any other device for holding an
electric wire to any tree growing in any public way in the city.
   (B)   Every person having or maintaining any wire charged with electricity
shall, whenever practicable, securely fasten the same so that the wire shall
not come in contact with any tree in any public way in the city.
(Prior Code, § 99.10) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.011 DEPOSITING SALT IN GUTTERS.
   No person, except city employees in the exercise of a prescribed duty, shall
deposit or throw upon any public way or into any gutter thereof any salt or
salt water or deposit in the gutter any receptacle containing salt or salt
water which will injure trees in any way.
(Prior Code, § 99.11) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.012 GAS LEAKS NEAR TREES.
   (A)   No person owning, maintaining, or operating any gas pipes or mains
beneath the surface of any public way or public place in the city shall permit
any leak to occur in the pipes or mains within a radius of 40 feet of any tree
growing in any public way or public place in the city.
   (B)   In the event that a leak exists or occurs in any pipe or main, it
shall be the duty of the person owning or using the defective pipe or main to
repair the same immediately and to stop the leak in a manner so as to prevent a
recurrence thereof, within five days after receiving notice, in writing, from
the City Horticulturist, calling the attention of the person to the fact that
the leak exists or has occurred. A separate offense shall be regarded as
committed each day during which the person shall allow the violation to
continue.
(Prior Code, § 99.12) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.013 REMOVAL OF COTTONWOOD TREES OR TREES LIABLE TO FALL.
   (A)   No tree which, in the opinion of the Supervisor of Public Works, may
be liable to fall upon any sidewalk, street, or building near the tree shall be
permitted to stand upon or near any sidewalk in this city.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner of the property upon which the tree
sits to timely remove or cause the tree to be removed, or, to request that the
tree be removed at public expense.
(Prior Code, § 99.13) (Ord. 0-02-0012, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.014 CERTAIN TREES DECLARED NUISANCE.
   The planting, preserving, and maintaining of poplar, cottonwood, box elder,
willow, and dwarf catalpa trees for street planting and the planting within the
city of the shrub known as berberis vulgaris are declared and shall be deemed a
nuisance and are therefore prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 99.14) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 99.015 OVERHANGING BRANCHES.
   Trees, branches, or limbs must not be permitted to overhang streets, alleys,
or sidewalks so as to interfere with traffic, obstruct traffic signals or signs
or constitute a hazard or danger by reason of becoming liable to fall on any
street, alley, sidewalk, or public property. It shall be the duty of the owner
of the property upon which the trees sit to timely remove or cause the removal
of the trees, branches, or limbs, or to request that the tree, branches, or
limbs be removed at public expense.
(Prior Code, § 99.36) (Ord. 0-02-0012, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
10.999
CITY HORTICULTURIST
§ 99.030 POWERS.
   The City Horticulturist shall have the power to destroy trees in the public
ways and parkways if infected by disease or by injurious insects, when the
destruction is necessary for the protection of other trees.
(Prior Code, § 99.20)
§ 99.031 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the City Horticulturist to see that the provisions
of this chapter are obeyed. Prosecutions for all violations of this chapter
shall be instituted at the direction of the City Horticulturist and shall be
prosecuted in the name of the city.
(Prior Code, § 99.21)
§ 99.032 INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall prevent, delay, or interfere with the City Horticulturist or
his or her assistants in the planting, pruning, cultivating, spraying, or
removing of any tree, plant, or shrub that may be growing in any public way of
the city or in the removing of stone, cement, or other material about the trunk
of any tree that may be growing in any public way of the city.
(Prior Code, § 99.22) Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 100: COLLECTIONS BOXES
Section
   
100.01   Intent
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Collection box permit
   
100.04   Application for a permit and fee
   
100.05   Requirements for a permit
   
100.06   Terms and renewal of permit
   
100.07   Revocation of permit
   
100.08   Appeal to Plan Commission
   
100.09   Violations and remedies
   
100.10   Prohibited locations
 
   
100.99   Penalty
§ 100.01 INTENT.
   This chapter is intended to be a regulatory chapter for the public’s health,
safety, and welfare for the protection of all citizens who use collection
boxes. The intent of this chapter is to impose restrictions and conditions on
all collection boxes in the city so that they are, and remain, clean, safe, and
do not create hazards to pedestrians and to vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 23-0037, passed 9-27-2023)
§ 100.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTION BOX. Any container, receptacle, or smaller device that is located
on any parcel or lot of record within the city and that is used for soliciting
and collecting the receipt of clothing, household items, or other salvageable
personal property. This term does not include recycle bins for the collection
of recyclable material, any rubbish or garbage receptacle, or any collection
box located within an enclosed building.
   OPERATOR. A person who owns, operates, or otherwise is in control of
collection boxes to solicit collections of salvageable personal property.
   PERMITEE. A person over 18 years of age or an entity who is issued a permit
authorizing placement of a collection box(es) on real property.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person who is an owner of real property where the
collection box(es) are located.
   REAL PROPERTY, PROPERTY, or LAND. A lot of record located in the City of
East Chicago.
(Ord. 23-0037, passed 9-27-2023)
§ 100.03 COLLECTION BOX PERMIT.
   No later than 90 days from the effective date of this chapter; no person
shall place, operate, maintain, or allow any collection box on any real
property without first obtaining an annual permit issued by the city to locate
a collection box. If there are existing collection boxes as of the date of this
chapter, those collection box owner and property owners shall have 90 days to
obtain a permit under this chapter. If no permit is obtained for existing
collection boxes, the city shall remove same at the cost of property owner and
owner of the collection box.
(Ord. 23-0037, passed 9-27-2023) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.04 APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT AND FEE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to secure a permit shall make an application to
the City Controller’s office.
   (B)   A permit shall be obtained for each collection box(es) proposed and
shall be made by both the owner of the collection box as well as the property
owner. The license fee for donation boxes shall be $100 per year, per box. Said
fee is non-refundable. Additionally, a deposit of $200 is required, which is
refundable upon expiration of the permit, removal of the box, and contingent
upon no monies being owed to the city with relation to the collection box at
issue and no city code violations or enforcement by the city on code
violations.
   (C)   The application for a permit shall be upon a form provided by the City
Controller and be signed by an individual who is an officer, director, member,
or manager of an entity applicant. The application shall also be signed by the
property owner. The applicant shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and email of all partners or limited partners of a
partnership applicant, all members of an LLC applicant, all officers and
directors of a non-publicly traded corporation applicant, all stockholders
owning more than 5% of the stock of a non-publicly traded corporate applicant,
and any other person who is financially interested in the ownership or
operation of the business, including all aliases;
      (2)   Whether the applicant has previously received a permit for a
collection box in the city or operates a collection box or similar type
receptacle without a permit in the city;
      (3)   The name, address, email, and telephone number of a contact person
for all matters related to a collection box located in the city;
      (4)   The physical address of the real property where the collection box
is proposed to be located;
      (5)   A scaled drawing sufficient to illustrate the proposed location of
the collection box on the real property, the dimensions of the proposed
collection box, and that the location complies with the requirements of this
chapter and the this code of ordinances; and
      (6)   If not the owner of the real property, an affidavit from the
property owner providing written permission to place the collection box(es) on
the property, as well as an acknowledgment from the property owner of receipt
of a copy of this chapter shall be provided on a form provided by the city. For
purposes of this division (C)(6), the affidavit and acknowledgment may be
executed by an individual who is an officer, director, member, manager, or
agent of an entity owning the property.
   (D)   Within 21 days of receiving an application for a permit, the city
shall notify the applicant whether the permit is granted or denied. If the city
denies an application, the city shall state, in writing, the specific reasons
for denial.
   (E)   No person to whom a permit has been issued shall transfer, assign, or
convey such permit to another person or legal entity
   (F)   The property owner shall be the exclusive agent for receiving all
notices concerning the operation of the collection box including notice to
revoke permit, removal of box, and the like.
   (G)   By virtue of making the permit application, property owner consents to
the city entering property owner’s property to inspect the box and to
physically remove the box in the event of an ordinance violation determined by
city code enforcement or when a permit has expired and a box remains on
property owner’s property.
(Ord. 23-0037, passed 9-27-2023)
§ 100.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR A PERMIT.
   A permitee shall operate and maintain, or cause to be operated and
maintained, all collection boxes located in the city for which the permitee has
been granted a permit as follows.
   (A)   Collection boxes shall be metal and be maintained in good condition
and appearance with no structural damage, holes, or visible rust and shall be
free of graffiti.
   (B)   Collection boxes shall be locked or otherwise secured in such a manner
that the contents cannot be accessed by anyone other than those responsible for
the retrieval of the contents.
   (C)   Collection boxes shall have, at minimum, $2 inch type visible from the
front of each collection box the name, address, email, website, and phone
number of the operator, as well as whether the collection box is owned and
operated by a for profit company or a not for profit company. The collection
box shall not have information or advertising of logos other than those
relating to the operator.
   (D)   Collection boxes shall be serviced and emptied as needed, but at least
no less than every 15 days.
   (E)   The permitee and property owner shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, the area surrounding the collection boxes, free from any junk,
debris, or other material. The property owner shall be responsible to the
extent provided by law for the city’s cost to abate any nuisance.
   (F)   Collection boxes shall:
      (1)   Not be permitted on any land used for residential purposes;
      (2)   Not be permitted on any unimproved parcel, nor where the principal
use of the land has been closed or unoccupied for more than 30 days;
      (3)   (a)   Not be less than 1,000 feet from another collection box as
measured along a straight line from one box to the other.
         (b)   Notwithstanding this separation requirement, up to two
collection boxes on a single lot of record are permitted if the two collection
boxes are side by side and are no more than one foot apart;
      (4)   Not exceed seven feet in height, six feet in width, and six feet in
depth;
      (5)   Not cause a visual obstruction to vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
      (6)   Not be placed closer than 15 feet from:
         (a)   A public or private sidewalk, except that this provision does
not apply to a private sidewalk as long as the private sidewalk maintains a
five-foot clearance;
         (b)   A public right-of-way;
         (c)   A driveway; or
         (d)   A side or rear property line of adjacent property used for
residential purposes.
      (7)   Not cause safety hazards with the regard to a designated fire lane
or building exit;
      (8)   (a)   Not interfere with an access drive, off-street parking lot
maneuvering lane and/or required off-street parking space to an extent which
would cause safety hazards and/or unnecessary inconvenience to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic;
         (b)   Not encroach upon an access drive, off-street parking lot
maneuvering lane, and/or required off-street parking space;
      (9)   Be placed on a level, hard (asphalt or concrete) paved, dust-free
surface; and
      (10)   If placed on a parking lot servicing a business, the box shall not
reduce the minimum number of parking spaces needed for the business pursuant to
City Code.
(Ord. 23-0037, passed 9-27-2023)
§ 100.06 TERMS AND RENEWAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The permit year shall begin on January 1st in each year and shall
terminate on December 31st of the same calendar year. An annual permit issued
between December first and December thirty-first of any year shall expire on
December thirty-first of the calendar year next following issuance thereof.
   (B)   A collection box permit shall be renewed annually. The application for
renewal must be filed not later than 30 days before the permit expires. The
application for renewal shall be upon a form provided by the city.
   (C)   The city shall either approve or deny the renewal of a permit within
21 days of receipt of the complete renewal application and payment of the
renewal fee. Failure of the city to act before expiration of the permit shall
constitute approval of the renewal of the permit.
   (D)   A permit renewal fee set by resolution of the city council shall be
submitted with the application for renewal.
   (E)   Prior to expiration of the permit, the permitee may voluntarily cancel
the permit by notifying the city, in writing, of the intent to cancel the
permit. The permit shall become void upon the city’s receipt of a written
notice to intent to cancel the permit.
   (F)   The city shall approve the renewal of a permit if the city finds that
no circumstances existed during the term of the permit which would cause a
violation to exist and that the time of submission of the application for
renewal, or at any time during the renewal of the application for renewal,
there were not circumstances inconsistent with any finding revoked shall be
denied renewal of the permit for the subsequent calendar year.
   (G)   If the permit expires and is not renewed, the collection box(es) must
be removed from the real properly within a maximum of ten days after expiration
of the permit.
(Ord. 23-0037, passed 9-27-2023) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.07 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A) The city shall have the right to revoke any permit issued hereunder for
a violation of this chapter. Any of the grounds upon which the city may refuse
to issue an initial permit shall also constitute grounds for such revocation.
In addition, the failure of the permitee to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or other laws shall provide a written notification to the permitee and
property owner stating the specific grounds for a revocation and a demand for
correction and abatement. The notice shall allow a maximum of 20 days from
mailing of the notice to correct or abate the violation. Upon failure to make
the correction or abatement, the permit shall be revoked by the city and,
thereafter, the permitee shall not be eligible for a permit on the property for
the subsequent calendar year.
   (B)   Upon revocation, the collection box shall be removed from the real
property within ten days and, if not so removed within the time period, the
city may remove, store or dispose of the collection box at the expense of the
permitee and/or real property owner. All costs associated with the removal of
the collection box incurred by the city or the city’s contractor shall be the
responsibility of the property owner. If such obligation is not paid within 30
days after mailing of a billing of costs to the property owner, the city may
place a lien upon such real property enforceable as a tax lien in the manner
prescribed by the general laws of this state against the property and collected
as in the case of general property tax. If the same is not paid prior to the
preparation of the next assessment roll of the city, the amount shall be
assessed as a special tax against such premises on the next assessment roll and
collected thereunder.
   (C)   A permit for a collection box may be revoked if any government
authority or agency determines that the collection box has violated the State
Consumer Protection Act and/or the Charitable Organizations and Solicitations
Act.
(Ord. 23-0037, passed 9-27-2023) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.08 APPEAL TO PLAN COMMISSION.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision rendered by the city in granting or
denying an application for a permit under this chapter or in revolting a permit
issued under this chapter may appeal the decision to the Plan Commission. The
appeal shall be made by filing a written notice thereof with the city setting
forth the grounds for the appeal not later than ten days after receiving notice
of the decision. The Plan Commission may grant relief if the applicant presents
clear and convincing evidence that there was an error in the decision of the
city.
(Ord. 23-0037, passed 9-27-2023)
§ 100.09 VIOLATIONS AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to revocation of the permit, any person violating the
provisions of this chapter is guilty of a civil infraction.
   (B)   In addition to the penally provided in division (A) above, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, or any ordinance, shall be deemed a new and separate offense for each
day that such condition continues to exist.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city from pursuing any other
remedy provided by the law in conjunction with or in lieu of prosecuting
persons under this section for violation of this chapter.
   (D)   The real property owner and permitee shall be jointly and severally
liable for each violation and for payment of any fine and costs of abatement.
   (E)   No fines shall be imposed for a violation of this chapter until 90
days after its effective date. All collection boxes existing at the effective
date of the ordinance shall apply for a permit as required herein within 30
days of the effective date. Any collection boxes not in compliance with this
chapter after 90 days of the effective date shall be subject to all remedies
for violation as provided herein.
(Ord. 23-0037, passed 9-27-2023) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.10 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   Collection boxes are prohibited on public property, in residential areas, in
locations wherein they are a traffic concern, as well as in locations which
pose a safety risk.
(Ord. 23-0037, passed 9-27-2023) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   Pursuant to l.C. 36-1-3-8, the first violation of this chapter shall not
exceed a fine of $2,500, and the second or subsequent violation shall not
exceed a fine of $7,500.
(Ord. 23-0037, passed 9-27-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING AND FEES
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
112.   FOOD AND BEVERAGES
      
113.   LODGING AND RENTAL DWELLINGS
      
114.   CONSTRUCTION AND STRUCTURES
      
115.   VEHICLE-RELATED BUSINESSES AND SERVICES
      
116.   PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, SOLICITORS
      
117.   SPECIALIZED SALES AND SERVICES
      
118.   TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING AND FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
110.001   Business license requirements
   
110.002   Health Certificates
   
110.003   Contents; compliance with code
   
110.004   Term
   
110.005   Procedure for changing licensed location
   
110.006   Transfer of licenses
Application
   
110.020   Contents
   
110.021   False statements
   
110.023   Affidavits
   
110.024   Compliance with local building, fire, health, zoning, state, and
federal provisions
   
110.025   Investigations; disapproval
License Issuance and Procedures
   
110.040   Qualifications; when required
   
110.041   Indebtedness to city
   
110.042   Insurance or bond
   
110.043   Procedure for correction of minor defect or violation in application
   
110.044   Enforcement and right of entry
   
110.045   Suspension; revocation; denial of issuance or renewal
   
110.046   Appeals
Fees
   
110.060   Payment
   
110.061   Application
   
110.062   Refund for nonapproval of license application fee
   
110.063   License transfer
   
110.064   Late fees
Insignia
   
110.075   Delivery
   
110.076   Posting; display
   
110.077   Issuance of duplicate
   
110.078   Alteration; removal
   
110.079   Use by other than licensee
   
110.080   Surrendering plates and certificates
License Fee Schedules
   
110.095   Class 1: Retail; food/beverage
   
110.096   Class 1: Retail; restaurant/beverage/food dispensing
   
110.097   Class 2: Retail; service
   
110.098   Class 2: Retail
   
110.099   Class 3: Environment/miscellaneous
 
   
110.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.001 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any business or activity, office, plant, or place within the city,
whether temporary or permanent in nature, and whether within or without a
permanent structure, where services or professional services; day care
providers, including schools, preschools, private home day cares, centers,
ministries; manufacturing; fabrication; construction; assembly or design occur,
or where commodities or goods are sold or offered for sale to the public in
general or to the ultimate consumer of the commodities or goods shall be
required to obtain a valid business license from the city.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to conduct, engage in, maintain,
operate, carry on, or manage a business or occupation, thing, or device for
which a business license is required without first procuring a business license
for such business, occupation, thing, or device as provided in this code or
other ordinance of the city.
      (2)   Any establishment not specifically covered by a separate business
license provision will require a business license.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.002 HEALTH CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Before a business license is issued or renewed for any business or
occupation which involves the production, preparation, or distribution of food
products or beverages, the business shall be required to produce a
Certification of Food Handler Requirements, demonstrating compliance with the
State Department of Health (ISDH) Rule 410 I.A.C. 7-22, Certification of Food
Handler Requirements and I.C. 16-42-5.
   (B)   Before a business license is issued or renewed, all persons who are
engaged or desire to engage in any occupation or business for which a license
is required and who produce or distribute food or food products or drinks shall
be required to present a current health certificate, signed by the city health
officer, which shall declare each person so engaged to be free from infectious
or contagious disease. The applicant shall be subject to any and all applicable
fees assessed for these services.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.003 CONTENTS; COMPLIANCE WITH CODE.
   Licenses shall be signed by the Mayor and be attested by the City
Controller. All licenses issued shall bear the seal of the city, the name of
the licensee, the address, nature or kind of business, occupation, thing, or
device licensed, the period for which such license is issued, the amount of the
fee paid and such other pertinent information as the City Controller shall
prescribe. All licenses shall be subject to the provisions of this code or
other ordinance of the city which may be in force at the time of the issuance
thereof, or which subsequently may be passed by the Common Council.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.004 TERM.
   Except where otherwise expressly provided, all licenses shall be granted for
a period of one year; and unless otherwise expressly provided, every license
shall expire on March 31 following the date of its issuance. All annual
licenses, unless otherwise provided, shall be taken out and dated as of April
1. Conducting or continuing any business for which a business license is
required under an expired or otherwise invalid license is expressly prohibited
by this code.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.005 PROCEDURE FOR CHANGING LICENSED LOCATION.
   If any person licensed to engage in a business or occupation at a particular
place shall, before the expiration of the license period, desire to change the
location of such place of business, he or she shall forthwith notify the City
Controller of such fact. No business or occupation shall be conducted at such
new location until timely notice of the new location has been given to the City
Controller, and such licensee shall have complied with all the provisions of
this code and applicable city ordinances, including all necessary inspections
of the new business location, and any and all application fees have been paid,
as provided by this code.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.006 TRANSFER OF LICENSES.
   No license or renewal thereof granted under the provisions of this chapter
shall be assignable or transferable.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012) Penalty, see §
110.999
APPLICATION
§ 110.020 CONTENTS.
   (A)   Information required. An applicant for a business license issued under
this chapter shall complete an application form prepared and made available by
the City Controller and upon presentment and surrender of the receipt of the
City Controller showing payment of the license fee as provided in §
110.060. Said application shall contain or state the following information:
      (1)   The full legal name, age, residence, and address of the applicant
and business owners.
      (2)   Whether the applicant is an incorporated firm, association, or
corporation.
      (3)   If applicant is an incorporated firm or partnership, the
application shall contain the full name and residence addresses of every
individual composing such firm or partnership, including full names,
residential addresses, and telephone numbers of registered agents.
      (4)   All applicable federal and state identification numbers.
      (5)   If applicant is a limited partnership, the full names and residence
addresses of the general partners thereof.
      (6)   If applicant is a corporation, the full names and residence
addresses of its officers and resident agents and the place where and the time
when it was incorporated.
      (7)   If applicant is a corporation, a copy of its current official
Certificate of Existence or Authorization issued by the State Secretary of
State, or other state in which the corporation is registered.
      (8)   The exact location of the place of business or proposed location
for which the license is sought.
      (9)   The nature of the business, occupation, thing, or device for which
the license is sought.
      (10)   Whether applicant is a citizen of the United States or resident
alien.
      (11)   The experience, if any, the applicant has had in such business.
      (12)   The designation of a mailing address which will be acceptable for
the receipt of letters or notifications to appear before the proper city
authorities to show cause why such license should not be revoked for failure to
comply with the code or other ordinance of the city. For the purposes of this
section, a post office box does not suffice as an address.
      (13)   The hours of operation for the proposed retail or service
establishment.
      (14)   Any other information the City Controller shall find reasonably
necessary to effectuate the purpose of this chapter, and to arrive at a fair
determination of whether the terms of this chapter have been complied with.
   (B)   Licenses; fees and renewal.
      (1)   An application for renewal shall be first approved and certified by
the city controller before a renewal is granted and issued.
      (2)   The annual business license renewal fee for a business in good
standing shall be determined according to the current Business License Schedule
of Fees.
      (3)   The full annual fee must be paid in full before a license or
renewal is issued, and there shall be no prorating of fees.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.021 FALSE STATEMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person, either in his or her own behalf or for
another, to make any false statement or false representations willfully for the
purpose of obtaining any license or any undue advantage under this code or
other ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.023 AFFIDAVITS.
   All applicants may be required to swear to any statement made in connection
with the application for the issuance of any business license. Such affidavit
may be made by the applicant before the City Controller, or designated agent,
or a notary public in the office of the City Controller, in which cases the
oath shall be administered without cost.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.024 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL BUILDING, FIRE, HEALTH, ZONING, STATE, AND
FEDERAL PROVISIONS.
   The City Controller shall require that all business license applications
comply with provisions of the building, fire, health, and zoning codes and all
prevailing federal and state laws and provisions regulating ordinances and
codes.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.025 INVESTIGATIONS; DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   (1)   When a receipt of the City Controller is presented showing the
payment of the business license fee for any application for a business license
which requires an investigation or an inspection by the city, an approval of
the character or fitness of any applicant for a business license or an approval
of the proper location or condition of the premises in which the business, for
which an application is made, managed, conducted, operated, or carried on, the
City Controller shall transmit to each department, board, or division charged
with the investigation and approval of any such business license application
such information as may be necessary in order that the required investigation
or inspection may be made.
      (2)   Each department, bureau, or division head charged with such
investigation or inspection shall, immediately upon receipt of such information
from the City Controller, or its agent, cause an investigation or inspection to
be made, and shall, within a reasonable time period after the receipt of such
information from the City Controller, either approve or disapprove the issuance
of such business license and shall notify the City Controller accordingly.
   (B)   If any department, division, or bureau head charged with the
enforcement of this code (see § 110.024) shall disapprove such business license
application and the applicant for a business license shall be in business or
shall engage in the occupation for which the business license is sought, it
shall be the duty of such department or bureau head to take such action as may
be necessary to compel compliance, within a reasonable time period, with the
provisions of this code.
   (C)   An applicant may be denied a business license at the discretion of the
City Controller based on the findings of a criminal background check for any
previous felony convictions involving fraud, financial malfeasance, violent
crime, or offenses against minors, pursuant to I.C. 35-50-2-4, I.C. 35-50-2-
5Cite, I.C. 35-50-2-6Cite, and I.C. 35-50-2-7 Citewith the advice of the Police
Department and City Legal Department depending upon the nature of the business
and factors including but not limited to type or category of business, method
of business, or location, of the applicant’s business for which the license is
applied.
   (D)   An applicant may be denied a business license based on the findings of
a criminal background check pursuant to I.C. 35-50-3-2 and I.C. 35-50-3-3 Cite
(Class A and B), misdemeanors involving fraud, financial malfeasance, or
offenses against minors at the discretion of City Controller, with the advice
of the Police Department and City Legal Department depending upon the nature of
the business and factors including but not limited to type or category of
business, method of business, or location, of the applicant’s business for
which the license is applied.
   (E)   A denial of a business license shall be issued in writing by the City
Controller within a reasonable time. Such denial is appealable to the Board of
Works as provided by §
110.046 of this code.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
LICENSE ISSUANCE AND PROCEDURES
§ 110.040 QUALIFICATIONS; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon receiving satisfactory proof from the City Controller that the
applicant or each of the principal officers, if the applicant is a corporation,
is a fit and proper person to be granted such business license, and that all
laws and provisions of this code regulating such business or occupation, thing,
or devise for which such license is applied for have been complied with, the
City Controller may authorize and issue such license.
   (B)   In all cases where licenses are required to be procured, such licenses
may upon full compliance by the applicant, be granted and issued by the City
Controller.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.041 INDEBTEDNESS TO CITY.
   No license or permit shall be issued to any person indebted to the city
until such persons pays to the city all indebtedness then due by such person.
This shall include all citations, including citations for violations of the
City Code, liens, special assessments, property tax, or other taxes payable to
the county for property located within the city.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.042 INSURANCE OR BOND.
   (A)   (1)   No business license or renewal thereof shall be issued by the
City Controller until such time the applicant has presented evidence of current
liability insurance; or has made, executed, and delivered to the City
Controller, or a bond, with good and sufficient surety, in the sum specified
under the business license provisions of this code, payable to the City
Controller. The insurance policy or bond shall recite that the principals and
sureties agree to indemnify and hold harmless the city against any and all
claims and demands made by or against the city arising out of the principal’s
practice as a business within the city, or the applicant shall present a signed
statement to the Controller indemnifying the city against the same.
      (2)   Any bond given by any person to the city under the business license
provisions of this code or other ordinance of the city shall, before a business
license is granted, be examined for approval as to form by the City Controller
or Law Department at their discretion.
      (3)   Except if otherwise specifically required, the City Controller
shall investigate the sureties of any business license bond, and if, upon
investigation, he or she shall find that the same are good, he or she shall
approve such bond; provided that where a surety bond is required or furnished,
the surety company must first be authorized to do business in the state.
   (B)   Insurance policies or bonds shall be resubmitted each year before
renewal of the business license is granted.
   (C)   All bonds, including continuation bonds, submitted shall be stamped
and filed with the County Recorder’s office prior to issuance of a business
license.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.043 PROCEDURE FOR CORRECTION OF MINOR DEFECT OR VIOLATION IN APPLICATION.
   (A)   The applicant shall be given two business days in the interest of
efficiency to make any “minor” correction to an entry or omission on their
business license application, or make correction or repair in regard to their
mode or method of business or procedure required or recommended by the
rejecting department(s) in writing, and may upon making such corrections re-
submit the license application for further review without resubmitting the
application fee. Applicants shall not be allowed to avail themselves of this
remedial procedure to correct minor defect in the application more than once
per application. Subsequent denials require that the applicant re-submits the
application and application fee, or initiate the appeals process described
herein under §
110.046. Applications which are deemed to have a major violation, inaccuracy,
or omission in violation of the city code shall be denied a business license.
   (B)   Applicants who fail to submit corrections or notify the City
Controller of his or her intention to remedy a minor defect or violation in
their application, or business as described in division (A) above by the end of
the second business day after notification of such defect or violation, shall
be deemed to have waived their opportunity to correct without resubmitting the
application and fees, and the denial of the application shall be final.
Applicants who have been denied a business license may re-submit their business
license application and pay all applicable fees, or begin a new application
process, and pay all applicable fees.
   (C)   Where a condition requiring repair or correction exists on real
property, the rejecting department(s) shall notify the applicant and persons
holding a substantial interest in the property of the violation in writing, and
the required or recommended repair. The applicant and/or property owners shall
be given ten business days to bring the property and/or place of business into
compliance with this code. The applicant may upon making such correction(s) or
repair within the allotted time, re-submit the license application for further
review without resubmitting the application fee.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.044 ENFORCEMENT AND RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, all police officers, City
Controller, and all departments of the city, including the Building, Fire, Code
Enforcement, and Health Departments, charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this code to conduct inspections of the business, thing, or
device regulated and licensed under this code and to enforce, as may be
provided by law, all laws of the city and state in the proper exercise of
police powers of the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of enforcing provisions of this code with regard to
required business licenses, police officers shall have the right to request any
person claiming to be licensed under this code to produce a business licenses
and to issue a citation to any person who violates any of the business license
provisions of this code and shall have the right of entry and to cease
operations, at any time, to any place or operation of business for which a
business license is required by this code.
   (C)   For the purpose of ascertaining whether or not there is compliance
with the licensing provisions of this code, the City Controller and the
departments of Building, Fire, Code Enforcement, and Health, shall also have
the right of entry and to cease operations at any time, to any place or
operation of a business for which a business license is required.
   (D)   In accordance with I.C. 36-1-6-2(a), if a condition violating this
code or other city ordinance exists on real property, employees or contractors
of city may enter onto that property and take appropriate action to bring the
property into compliance with the ordinance and may bring an enforcement
action. See §
110.999. If the city takes action to bring compliance, the expenses incurred by
the city to bring compliance constitute a lien against the property. The lien
attaches when notice of the lien is recorded in the office of the County
Recorder. The lien is superior to all other liens except liens for taxes, in an
amount that does not exceed:
      (1)   Ten thousand dollars for real property unoccupied or unimproved
property; or
      (2)   Twenty thousand dollars for all other real property.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.045 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; DENIAL OF ISSUANCE OR RENEWAL.
   The City Controller may recommend to the Board of Public Works the
suspension or revocation of any business license issued under this division
when such business shall have been guilty of fraud, misrepresentation,
negligence, or for violations of the provision of the city code. The City
Controller for the above or reasons of equal gravity, may deny an application
for a new or a renewal of a business license.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.046 APPEALS.
   (A)   If the City Controller affirms its prior decision to deny, suspend, or
revoke a license, the applicant or licensee may appeal the decision to the
Board of Public Works within 30 days after the date of that decision by the
City Controller.
   (B)   In the event of such an appeal, the following procedures shall be
followed, except to the extent a specific licensing ordinance provides
otherwise:
      (1)   The applicant or licensee may within 30 days (inclusive of holidays
and weekends) of the date of the final decision of the City Controller request
an appeal on the issue of the license denial, suspension, or revocation.
      (2)   The applicant or licensee shall make the request for an appeal in
writing to the secretary of the Board of Public Works and such notice is
effective as of the date of receipt by the secretary.
      (3)   (a)   The Board of Public Works shall rule on the matter within ten
business days of its submission to the Board of Public Works by the applicant
or licensee and shall notify the applicant or licensee in writing of its ruling
by certified mail sent on the day of ruling.
         (b)   The denial, suspension, or revocation will be effective 30 days
after the decision of the Board of Public Works if an appeal to the Board of
Public Works is taken.
      (4)   (a)   The ruling of the Board of Works shall be the final decision
of the city.
         (b)   A denial, suspension, or revocation of a business license
application issued by the Board of Works shall be appealable to the County
Circuit Court provided that such appeal is filed within 30 days after the
applicant or receives notice of such denial.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
FEES
§ 110.060 PAYMENT.
   The applicant for a business license shall pay directly to the City
Controller the required license fees and the City Controller shall thereupon
issue a quietus and/or receipt to such person.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.061 APPLICATION.
   No such receipt or the payment of any license application fee shall entitle
or authorize any person to any of the rights or privileges conferred by the
issuance of any license or to the opening or maintenance of any business or
establishment contrary to any of the provisions of this code or other ordinance
of the city.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.062 REFUND FOR NONAPPROVAL OF LICENSE APPLICATION FEE.
   In the event a license is denied, suspended, or revoked, the license
application fee paid shall not be refunded.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.063 LICENSE TRANSFER.
   No business license or renewal thereof granted under the provisions of this
chapter shall be assignable or transferable. A new business license application
must be submitted.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.064 LATE FEES.
   All license fees are due as of March 31 of each year. A late fee of 25% of
the appropriate fee shall be added to all business license fees which are 30
days or more past due.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
INSIGNIA
§ 110.075 DELIVERY.
   (A)   In all cases where any provision of this code requires a license to be
obtained and the regulation pertaining thereto also requires the licensee to
obtain and exhibit a plate, tag, badge, emblem, or other insignia, it shall be
the duty of the City Controller to deliver such insignia, to the licensee and
the fee paid shall be considered as including the cost of such insignia.
   (B)   (1)   Such license plate, tag, emblem, badge, or other insignia shall
be impervious to weather and shall bear the same serial number as the license.
      (2)   Whenever practical, it shall be the duty of the City Controller to
change annually the predominate background color of such insignia.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.076 POSTING; DISPLAY.
   (A)   When a license certificate is delivered to any licensee who has
designated therein a building, room, store, office, or place in which the
licensed business or occupation is to be conducted, it shall be the duty of
such licensee to post the same in a conspicuous place upon the licensed
premises.
   (B)   Every licensee operating a vehicle, for which a license plate is
issued under the provisions of this code, shall have such plate securely
fastened and plainly visible on the outside of each vehicle used or licensed in
the conduct of the business or occupation.
   (C)   Every licensee operating any devise or thing shall have such license
tag or certificate affixed and displayed in a conspicuous place on such device
or thing.
   (D)   No license certificate, plate, badge, tag, emblem, or other insignia
shall be permitted to remain posted or displayed after the period for which the
license was issued has expired.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.077 ISSUANCE OF DUPLICATE.
   In case any licensee who has been furnished a plate, badge, tag, emblem, or
other insignia, in accordance with the provisions of this code shall lose the
same, it shall be within the discretion of the City Controller to authorize an
issuance of a duplicate insignia, upon the making of an affidavit of loss by
such person and the payment of the replacement cost to the city, unless
otherwise provided.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.078 ALTERATION; REMOVAL.
   (A)   No person shall add to, alter, deface, forge, or counterfeit any
license certificate or license plate, tag, badge, emblem, or other insignia
which has been or is being issued by the city.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall destroy, obliterate, take, remove, or carry away
without the consent of the owner any license certificate or license plate, tag,
badge, emblem, or other insignia which has been issued by the city; except,
that such certificate, plate, tag, badge, emblem, or other insignia may be
removed after the licensed business has been discontinued or the licensed
premises have been abandoned or the period of the license has expired.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the Mayor or his
duly authorized representative, or the City Controller, from removing any
license certificate, emblem, or insignia from the possession of a former
licensee or from his or her premises, device, or thing from any vehicle when
such license has been revoked under the provisions of this code or other
ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.079 USE BY OTHER THAN LICENSEE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee to lend or give away any license
certificate or any license plate, tag, badge, emblem, or other insignia issued
to such licensee.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to use or display any license
certificate or license plate, badge, tag, emblem, or other insignia which has
been unlawfully acquired.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012) Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.080 SURRENDERING PLATES AND CERTIFICATES.
   Upon revocation of any license, the license plates and certificate, if any,
shall be returned to the City Controller.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
LICENSE FEE SCHEDULES
§ 110.095 CLASS 1: RETAIL; FOOD/BEVERAGE.
   (A)   Fee schedule. The fees below are subject to change at the discretion
of the city.
Category Code Fee
Category                                    Code     Fee
Amusement games (tavern), per unit          32212-00 $100
Amusement machines (other venues), per unit 32212-01 $50
Bakery                                      32211-07 $100
Beverage distributor, per truck             32211-14 $100
Cigarette machine, per event                32213-00 $100
Convenience store                           32211-04 $100
Delicatessen (stand alone)                  32211-03 $100
Drugstore                                   32211-09 $100
Farmer’s market, per event                32211-15 $100
Fish market                                 32211-06 $100
Food commissary                             32211-00 $100
Food manufacturer/distributor               32211-11 $100
Food peddler                                32211-12 $100
Fruit/vegetable market                      32211-05 $100
Grocery store (under 3,000 sq. ft.)         32211-02 $100
Juke box, per unit                          32213-02 $50
Liquor store                                32211-08 $100
Milk distributor, per truck                 32211-13 $100
Private/public hall café                   32211-16 $100
Supermarket (over 3,000 sq. ft.)            32211-01 $250
Wholesale store                             32211-10 $100
 
   (B)   Description of business categories. For the purpose of this section,
the following descriptions shall apply.
      AMUSEMENT GAMES. A device that may be computerized game equipment for
amusement to be used for monetary cost or any tabletop amusement equipment.
      AMUSEMENT MACHINE. A machine that dispenses toys, gum, and/or candy for a
monetary cost.
      BAKERY. A retail establishment where products such as bread, cake, and
pastries are baked or sold for retail.
      BEVERAGE DISTRIBUTOR. A person traveling to business establishments
delivering beverages (water, non-alcoholic beverages, alcoholic beverages,
beer, wine, any soft drink intended or reasonably likely to be used as a
beverage).
      CIGARETTE LICENSE/TOBACCO. Anyone selling tobacco products behind service
counter that is not dispensed from a machine must have a license to do so.
      CIGARETTE MACHINE. A machine that dispenses cigarettes for a monetary
cost.
      CONVENIENCE STORE. A retail establishment that sells pre-packaged foods,
ready-to-eat foods, household goods, and personal items for public retail.
      DELICATESSEN. A retail establishment that sells prepared ready-to-eat
foods (sandwiches, salads, and packaged snacks).
      DRUG STORE. A retail establishment that dispenses prescription medication
and other over the counter medication as well as household items.
      FARMER’S MARKET. A person engaging at a stationary location selling fresh
fruit, fresh vegetables, and garden produce for retail.
      FISH MARKET. A retail establishment that sells fresh or frozen seafood,
fresh water products, or farm raised fishery.
      FOOD COMMISSARY. A register catering establishment, restaurant, or any
retail food establishment in which food, food containers, or food supplies are
kept, handled, prepared, packaged, or stored.
      FOOD MANUFACTURER/ DISTRIBUTOR. An establishment that prepares and
packages food items in large bulk or quantity and distributes to retail food
establishments.
      FOOD PEDDLER. A person traveling from place to place engaging in the
selling of fresh fruit, fresh vegetables, garden produce, dairy products, or
any prepared food by commissary.
      FRUIT/VEGETABLE MARKET. A retail establishment engaging in the selling of
fresh fruit, fresh vegetables, garden produce, seasonal produce, and seasoning
items.
      GROCERY STORE. A retail establishment generally located in a residential
neighborhood that sells food and household goods at a low volume.
      JUKE BOX. A coin operated music entertainment machine that plays music
for a monetary cost,
      LIQUOR STORE. A retail establishment that sells packaged alcoholic
beverages for retail (beer, wine, and hard liquor).
      PRIVATE/PUBLIC HALL CAFÉ. An area where food is prepared for public or
private events and may be used to hold hot/cold foods for a short time prior to
the event.
      SUPERMARKET. A retail establishment that sells food and household goods.
      WHOLESALE STORE. An establishment that sells items in large bulk or
quantity, usually at a lower cost.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.096 CLASS 1: RETAIL; RESTAURANT/BEVERAGE/FOOD DISPENSING.
   (A)   Fee schedule. The fees below are subject to change at the discretion
of the city.
Category Code Fee
Category                                           Code     Fee
Candy/gum ball/nut machines                                 $25
   First 3 machines
   Each additional machine                               $25
Carry-out                                          32210-02 $100
Casino restaurant                                  32210-00
   1-49 seats                                            $200
   50-99 seats                                           $300
   100 and over                                          $500
Caterer                                            32210-10 $100
Charitable/fraternal café                         32210-15 -
Commercial cafeteria                               32210-17 $500
Food vending machine, per machine                  32210-09 $50
Food vendor                                        32210-14
   Per unit                                              $100
   Per vendor/booth                                      $50
Industrial cafeteria                               32210-07 $100
Institutional cafeteria                            32210-12 $100
Mobile food vehicle, per unit                      32210-08 $100
Nightclub                                          32210-06 $225
Public centers (café)                             32210-16 -
Restaurant/carry-out                               32210-01 $100
Restaurant/tavern                                  32210-03 $150
Restaurant/nightclub                               32210-05 $250
School cafeteria (for all city schools)            32210-11 $100
Tavern                                             32210-04 $200
Temporary food establishment, per booth, per event 32210-13 $50
Note to table: Fees are doubled if square footage is over 3,000 sq. ft.
 
   (B)   Description of business categories. For the purpose of this section,
the following descriptions shall apply.
      CARRY-OUT. A retail establishment where meals are prepared and served to
be consumed inside/outside of establishment.
      CASINO RESTAURANT. A retail establishment located within in a casino or
gaming licensee’s property where meals are prepared and served.
      CATERER. An individual or business that prepares and sells food usually
for particular events for retail.
      CHARITABLE/FRATERNAL CAFÉ. A non-profit hall or organization that serves
prepared food (example: Post 369, Shriner’s, Knights of Columbus, and the
like).
      COMMERCIAL CAFETERIA. A retail establishment that sells prepared food and
is located within a public/industrial site.
      FOOD VENDING MACHINE. Coin/dollar operated machine that offers for sale
pre-packaged food or snacks.
      INSTITUTIONAL CAFETERIA. A retail establishment that sells prepared food
they serve at a private/public school, hospital, or college cafeteria.
      LOUNGE. A retail establishment that sells prepared food and alcoholic
beverages to consumers.
      MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. A retail mobilized food operation capable of moving
on its own, moving to place to place selling pre-packaged ready-to-eat foods.
      NIGHTCLUB. A retail establishment that dispenses alcoholic beverages and
has live entertainment (includes DJ) and has a dance floor.
      PUBLIC CENTERS (CAFÉ). An area where food is prepared for the public and
may be used to hold hot/cold foods for breakfast and lunch programs conducted
by or entirely funded charity and/or by local, state, or federal government.
      RESTAURANT/CARRY-OUT. A retail establishment where meals are prepared and
served.
      RESTAURANT/TAVERN. A retail establishment where meals are prepared and
served; and alcoholic beverages are dispensed.
      SCHOOL CAFETERIA. An establishment that sells prepared food to students
in a primary or secondary public or charter school setting.
      TAVERN/BAR. A retail establishment that dispenses alcoholic beverages.
      TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT/FESTIVALS. A temporary celebration or event
in a designated area preparing food and drink on site by food vendors under
strict sanitary conditions for a limited time.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.097 CLASS 2: RETAIL; SERVICE.
   (A)   Fee schedule. The fees below are subject to change at the discretion
of the city.
Categories Code Fee
Categories                                                Code     Fee
Arcade                                                    32217-01 $150
Auto body shop                                            32214-04 $100
Auto parts import/export                                           $250
Auto repair shop                                          32214-02 $100
Auto service station                                      32214-01
   3 pumps or less                                              $50
   Each additional pump                                         $25
Billboard
   10’6” x 22’9”, per billboard                         $200
   Over 11’ x 23’, per billboard                            $400
Car wash                                                  32214-03 $100
Currency exchange                                                  $1,000
Dry cleaner                                               32215-02 $100
Exterminator                                              32224-00 $125
Financial institutions                                    32228-03 $100
Furniture store                                           32221-00 $150
Hotel rooming house                                       32218-00
   10 rooms or less                                             $175
   11-49 rooms                                                  $350
   50 rooms or more                                             $500
Junk scrap dealer/recycler                                32220-00 $150
Kennel pet shop                                           32225-00 $100
Laundromat                                                32215-01 $100
Lumber yard                                               32222-00 $175
New car dealer                                            32219-01 $500
                                                                   $500
No pawn                                                   32227-01 Surety bond
                                                                   $5,000
                                                                   $600
Pawn broker/gold dealer                                   32227-00 Surety bond
                                                                   $5,000
                                                                   $1,000
Payday loans                                              32227-02 Surety bond
                                                                   $5,000
Phrenology or psychic practitioner                        32223-00 $175
Pool hall/billiard room                                   32217-00
   Facility                                                     $150
   Per game                                                     $50
Private public hall                                       32216-00 $150
Property management, per building managed (Double fee for 32229-00 $100
each building over 3,000 sq. ft.)
Secondhand/resale store                                   32229-18 $100
Tattoo/piercing                                                    $250
Taxi cab service, per vehicle                             32226-00 $150
Used car dealer                                           32219-02 $250
Vehicle for hire, per vehicle                             32226-01 $150
 
   (B)   Description of business categories. For the purpose of this section,
the following descriptions shall apply.
      ARCADE FACILITY. A retail establishment with electronic computerized game
equipment for amusement for monetary costs to be used.
      AUTO BODY SHOP. An auto repair shop or garage specializing in fixes or
modifications to a car’s chassis (doors, hoods, bumpers).
      AUTO REPAIR SHOP. A retail or other establishment which performs vehicle
repairs by mechanics.
      AUTO SERVICE STATION. A retail establishment dispensing gasoline, diesel
fuels, or other energy source primarily for transportation purposes. A single
PUMP is defined as one fuel station with a single nozzle for the dispensing of
fuel or other energy source.
      BILLBOARDS. A structure for displaying advertisements.
      BILLIARD ROOM. A retail establishment with a game played on a
rectangular, cloth covered table with raised cushioned edges for entertainment
purposes. Monetary costs may be levied.
      CAR WASH. An area or building equipped for washing vehicles.
      CURRENCY EXCHANGE. A financial institution other than a bank or credit
union primarily involved in cashing checks, making short-term or “payday”
loans, selling financial instruments such as money orders, phone cards,
domestic and international wire transfers, car title loans, or providing notary
services.
      DRY CLEANER. A retail establishment to clean clothing or fabrics with
chemical solvents for a monetary cost.
      EXTERMINATOR. A retail establishment or person who is hired to get rid of
vermin by destroying completely.
      FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. Banks, credit unions, and other FDIC insured
establishments which perform financial transactions including banking,
investing, and lending money.
      FURNITURE STORE. A retail establishment that sells equipment useful for
comfort, conveniences, or appliance articles (home and/or office use).
      HOTEL/ROOMING HOUSE. A retail establishment that provides lodging for a
monetary cost.
      JUNK SCRAP DEALER/RECYCLER. A retail establishment that provides
recyclable materials such as aluminum, brass, copper, or plastics, and any
other material substances found in organic waste.
      KENNEL/PET SHOP. A retail establishment where dogs are bred, trained, or
boarded for monetary cost.
      LAUNDROMAT. A retail establishment equipped with washing machines and
dryers for public use. Apartment complexes may or may not charge monetary
costs.
      LUMBER YARD. A retail establishment that sells new or used lumber and
other building materials.
      NEW CAR DEALER. A retail establishment that sells or business
transactions for purchasing new vehicles.
      NO PAWN. A retail establishment which purchases seller’s items in
exchange for cash. Each broker shall keep a ledger in which shall be recorded
legibly and in ink, at the time of making each loan, an accurate account and
description of the goods, articles, or things received as well as a photograph
of the same, and the name and address of the person(s) who exchanged or sold
such goods, articles, or things with the business. The NO PAWN broker and its
employees shall take such steps as reasonably necessary to ascertain the true
name and identity of the persons with whom the NO PAWN does business.
      PAWN BROKER. A retail establishment which lends money at interest in
exchange for personal property left as security. This retail establishment
purchases seller’s items in exchange for cash. Each BROKER shall keep a ledger
in which shall be recorded legibly and in ink, at the time of making each loan,
an accurate account and description of the goods, articles, or things received
as well as a photograph of the same, and the name and address of the person(s)
who exchanged or sold such goods, articles, or things with the broker. The
BROKER shall take such steps as reasonably necessary to ascertain the true name
and identity of the persons with whom the broker does business.
      PAYDAY LOANS. A financial institution that lends money with interest for
a short period of time on a contractual promise to repay when the individual
receives their weekly or bi-weekly paycheck.
      PHRENOLOGY. A person that may appear to have the ability as a psychic to
predict one’s future.
      PROPERTY MANAGEMENT. Any private or public owner or manager of a property
who exercises control or oversight of an aggregate of more than two commercial,
industrial, or residential real estate properties, which are rented, leased,
used for storage, or otherwise generate, or are intended to generate income or
provide value to a business operation. This includes real estate properties
located within the city and/or property management offices located within the
city, which manage the requisite number of real estate properties which may be
located within the city or elsewhere.
      PUBLIC HALL. A building for public gathering or entertainment at no
charge or monetary costs.
      TATTOO/PIERCING. A business which provides tattoo or piercing services.
Such a business shall not provide tattoo or piercing services to minors under
the age of 18 without the express prior written permission of the minor’s
parent or guardian.
      TAXI CAB SERVICES. An automobile that carries passengers for a fare.
      USED CAR DEALER. A retail establishment that sells or business
transactions for purchasing used vehicles.
      VEHICLE FOR HIRE. An automobile, such as a limousine, coach bus, moving
truck (furniture and equipment).
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012; Ord. 14-0027, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 110.098 CLASS 2: RETAIL.
   (A)   Fee schedule. The fees below are subject to change at the discretion
of the city.
Categories Code Fee
Categories                                                  Code     Fee
Apparel store                                               32228-03 $100
Auto parts store                                            32228-01 $100
Automated video rental, per unit                                     $100
Barber shop                                                 32228-08 $100
Beauty shop                                                 32228-09 $100
                                                                     per event
Circus/carnival vendor                                      32228-16 / per
                                                                     vendor
   Per event                                                      $500
   Per vendor (certain vendors may have to be separately          $5
licensed)
Festival, per event                                         32228-18 $500
Fireworks retailer                                          3222843  $250
Fireworks wholesaler                                        32228-12 $750
Florist                                                     32228-05 $100
General business license                                    32228-17 $100
Hardware store                                              32228-07 $100
Hawker                                                      32228-10 $100
Nail shop/spa                                               32228-11 $100
Professional services/financial services-licensing of       32228-14 $100
premises
Solicitor/canvasser, per person                             32228-00 $75
Specialty store/service                                     32228-06 $100
Theaters/entertainment                                      32228-15 $500
Variety stores                                              32228-02 $100
Video store                                                 32228-04 $100
 
   (B)   Description of business categories. For the purpose of this section,
the following descriptions shall apply.
      APPAREL STORE. A retail establishment selling articles of dress, garment,
or attire.
      AUTO PARTS STORE. A retail establishment that sells new or restored
mechanical components and provides other vehicle items.
      BARBER SHOP. An establishment or person whose business is to cut hair and
to shave or trim beards, and have received a state license of completion.
      BEAUTY SHOP. An establishment or person whose business is to shampoo and
condition hair, hair coloring, haircuts, apply relaxers and other treatments,
and have received a state license of completion.
      CIRCUS/CARNIVAL VENDOR. A public entertainment that features acts by
acrobats, clowns, and trained animals. A traveling show featuring exhibits and
rides.
      FESTIVAL. An assembly of people gathered for an occasion of feasting or
celebration for a specific recurring day or time engaged in a common activity.
      FIREWORKS RETAILER. A person who purchases fireworks for resale to
consumers. See the following version of this section in I.C. 22-11-14-5.5(b)
(1); I.C. 22-11-14-4.5(b)(2)Cite; or I.C. 22-11-14-4.5(c)Cite; or from a tent
under section I.C. 22-11-14-4.5(a)Cite. A RETAILER may sell consumer fireworks
and items under the following conditions.
         (a)   The structure must be a Class 1 structure in which consumer
fireworks are sold and stored.
         (b)   The sales site must comply with all applicable local zoning and
land use rules.
         (c)   The weight of consumer fireworks in the structure may not exceed
3,000 gross pounds of consumer fireworks.
         (d)   The RETAILER holds a valid registration.
         (e)   A RETAILER that sold consumer fireworks and operated from a
structure with a registration in 2005 may continue in operation in the
structure in 2006 and the following years.
         (f)   Fire and building safety staff shall inspect tents and
structures in which fireworks are sold.
         (g)   A retailer selling items referenced in this section at one or
more temporary stands must obtain a fireworks stand retail sales permit.
      FIREWORKS WHOLESALER. A person who purchases fireworks for resale to
retailers. See the following version of this section in I.C. 22-11-14-5.5(b)
(1); I.C. 22-11-14-4.5(b)(2)Cite; or I.C. 22-11-14-4.5(c)Cite; or from a tent
under section I.C. 22-11-14-4.5(a)Cite.
      FLORIST. A retail establishment or person whose business is selling
flowers and ornamental plants.
      GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSE. Any person or entity, who conducts, engages in,
maintains, operates, carries on, or manages a business or occupation, thing, or
device in exchange for monetary enumeration not otherwise defined or addressed
by this section.
      HARDWARE STORE. A retail establishment selling a large assortment of
merchandise for home improvement repairs and general tools.
      HAWKER. A person that goes from block to block or stationary and
advertises merchandise with signage.
      NAIL SHOP. An establishment or person whose business is to perform
manicures, pedicures, and nail art and have received a state license of
completion.
      PROFESSIONAL SERVICES/FINANCIAL SERVICES. A business which primarily
provides to the public the services of a professional licensee such as a CPA,
realtor, physical therapist, massage therapist, veterinarian, insurance agent,
optometrist, or other profession which is regulated or licensed by the state
and/or federal government. The license shall be for the premises, and the fee
shall be for inspection of the same to ensure compliance with the local and
state building, fire, health, and zoning codes. Note that I.C. 36-8-2-10
provides that a unit of government may regulate the operation of businesses,
crafts, professions, and occupations.
      SOLICITOR/CANVASSER. A salesperson that travels throughout city
boundaries or person to person, to solicit orders, subscriptions, or conduct a
survey.
      SPECIALTY STORE/SERVICE. An establishment that has a particular activity,
occupation, or business in which one specializes.
      THEATERS/ENTERTAINMENT. An establishment that offers live performances,
motion pictures, or any live entertainment for entertainment purposes. A person
or persons performing live for a venue (music DJ’s).
      VARIETY STORE. A retail establishment selling a large assortment of
merchandise excluding food.
      VIDEO STORE. A retail establishment that sells or rents recordings of
motion picture productions.
(Ord. 12-0019, passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.099 CLASS 3: ENVIRONMENT/MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Fee schedule. The fees below are subject to change at the discretion
of the city.
Categories Code Fee
Categories                                    Code     Fee
Charitable/fraternal (halls)                  32229-12 -
Day care center                               32229-02 $150
Funeral parlor                                32229-17 $350
Garage sale/yard sale permit fee                       $5 per day/per household
General contractor                            32229-13 $200
Health care center                            32229-04 $350
Home based business                           32229-21 $100
Hospitals                                     32229-14 $500
Industry                                      32229-10 $500
   Over 3,000 sq. ft.                               $1,000
Janitorial                                    32229-20 $200
Landscaping/snow removal                      32229-15 $100
Mass gathering                                32229-08 $350
Post-secondary school/vocational school/other 32229-01 $200
educational institution
Public center                                 32229-03 -
Scavenger                                     32229-19 $175
Swimming pool                                 32229-05 -
Trucking company                              32229-16 $350
Note to table: Fees are doubled if square footage is over 3,000 sq. ft.
 
   (B)   Description of business categories.
      CHARITABLE/FRATERNAL (HALLS). Of an organization or activity officially
recognized as to assist those in need.
      DAY CARE CENTER. The care provided for infants, toddlers, and
preschoolers.
      FUNERAL PARLOR. An establishment with facilities for the preparation of
the dead for burial or cremation, for the viewing of the body.
      GARAGE OR YARD SALE. A sale of miscellaneous household goods, held in the
garage or yard of a residence. A permit is required for each day of the event
and each day shall require payment of the fee. The hours and days of the event
must be listed on the permit. Permit must be clearly posted at all times during
the sale. The GARAGE OR YARD SALE event cannot encroach on the right-of-way,
including sidewalks and streets, unless and until a separate permit has been
granted for use of the city right-of-way/street.
      GENERAL CONTRACTOR. The contractor with main responsibility for
construction, improvement, or renovation project under contract, and is the
party signing the prime construction contract for the project. The GENERAL
CONTRACTOR is the person or entity who hires all of the subcontractors and
suppliers for a project. It is an individual, partnership, corporation, or
other business entity that is capable of performing construction work as a
contractor with overall responsibility for the satisfactory completion of a
project using its own forces to perform or supervise part of the work.
      HEALTH CARE CENTER. A building or an institution where medical services
are practiced.
      HOME BASED BUSINESS. A small business which operates from the business
owner or manager’s residence, serving from one to no more than five customers
per week, or a business which routinely stores an excess of an amount as set by
the city from time to time worth of equipment and/or inventory for the
operation of a business at a residence or in a residential area not otherwise
regulated by this code.
      HOSPITALS. An institution in which sick or injured persons are given
medical or surgical treatment.
      INDUSTRY. The aggregate of manufacturing or technically productive
enterprises, often named after a particular product.
      JANITORIAL. One who attends to the maintenance or cleaning of a building.
      LANDSCAPING/SNOW REMOVAL. Lawn care services, and/or snow removal.
      MASS GATHERING. Temporary collections of large numbers of people at one
site or location for a common purpose.
      POST-SECONDARY/VOCATIONAL SCHOOL/OTHER EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. A post
secondary, vocational, or other educational institution which provides
education or training such as a university, college, graduate school, or
professional schools, or non-accredited tutoring business.
      PUBLIC CENTER. A facility open to the public for activities, meetings,
events.
      SCAVENGER. A person who searches for and collect discarded items.
      SECONDHAND/RESALE. Common place to find cheap used goods.
      SWIMMING POOL. A structure, a concrete-lined excavation of rectangular
shape filled with water.
      TRUCKING COMPANY. A company that ships goods or possessions by truck.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
§ 110.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of this code, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail
to perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the City
Controller or its agents, or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey a lawful
order given by the City Controller, or its agents, in connection with the
provisions of this chapter for each such violation, failure, or refusal, such
person, firm, or corporation shall be fined in any sum not to exceed an amount
as set by the city from time to time, and costs of prosecution as provided
under I.C. 36-1-6-2. Each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited by the
first sentence of this section shall constitute a separate offense. The City
Corporation Council or City Attorney shall bring an action against the violator
as provided in division (B) or (C) below.
   (B)   The city may issue a citation and summons for a violation of this
code, and bring an action in the name of the city in City Court, or County
Circuit Court to enforce the ordinance as provided in I.C. 34-28-5-1.
      (1)   In an enforcement action, the city need not prove that it or the
ordinance is valid unless validity is controverted by affidavit. Such actions:
         (a)   Shall be conducted in accordance with the State Rules of Trial
Procedure; and
         (b)   Must be brought within two years after the alleged conduct or
violation occurred.
      (2)   In an action brought under I.C. 34-28-5-1, the city must prove the
commission of an infraction or ordinance violation by a preponderance of the
evidence.
      (3)   The complaint and summons described in I.C. 9-30-3-6 may be used
for any infraction or ordinance violation.
   (C)   If any person, firm, or corporation violates the provisions of this
code, or continues to violate the provisions of this code after receiving
written notice of a violation, the city may bring an action against the person,
firm, or corporation as provided in I.C. 34-28-5 or a civil action as provided
in I.C. 36-1-6 seeking an injunction, a judgment, an order for continuous
enforcement (as defined in I.C. 36-7-9-2Cite), an order for the suspension or
revocation of a license, an order for an inspection, and order vacating the
property or other remedy as proscribed by I.C. 36-1-6-4(b)Cite.
(Ord. 11-0040, passed 1-9-2012; Ord. 12-0002, passed 3-1-2012; Ord. 12-0019,
passed 6-15-2012)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Definitions
   
111.002   Grounds for revocation of license
   
111.003   Charitable entertainments; identification of benefitted parties
   
111.004   Tag day solicitations
Amusement Places
   
111.015   License
   
111.016   Insurance; bonds
   
111.017   Inspection
   
111.018   Use of city streets
   
111.019   Advertising
   
111.020   Location
   
111.021   Bond for carnivals
   
111.022   Tickets
Temporary Structures
   
111.035   Building permit
   
111.036   Occupancy permit
   
111.037   Attendance of city fire equipment at location
Coin-Operated Devices
   
111.050   Definitions
   
111.051   Gambling devices
   
111.052   Maintenance; identification; refunds
   
111.053   Violations
   
111.054   Licenses
Night Clubs, Dance Halls, and Skating Rinks
   
111.065   Definitions
   
111.066   Licenses
   
111.067   Insurance for skating rinks
   
111.068   Hours of operation of public dance halls
   
111.069   Employment of minors
   
111.070   Misrepresentation of age or parentage to gain admittance or
employment
   
111.071   Inspection of premises
   
111.072   Ventilation, toilets, and drinking fountains
   
111.073   Maintenance of premises and equipment
   
111.074   Public hall; attendance of police officers
   
111.075   Public dances; prohibited acts
   
111.076   C-3 North Harbor Business District: conditions of liquor license
Pool Rooms and Bowling Alleys
   
111.090   Definitions
   
111.091   Hours of operation
   
111.092   Sanitation
   
111.093   Gambling
   
111.094   Minors
   
111.095   Bowling alleys to comply with zoning regulations
   
111.096   Licenses
Shooting Galleries and Gun Clubs
   
111.110   Licenses
   
111.111   Location; premises approval required   
   
111.112   Safety regulations
   
111.113   Exemptions
Establishments Selling Items Commonly Used as Drug Paraphernalia
   
111.125   Blunt cigars and similar items
   
111.126   Location of sale
   
111.127   Exception
Coin-Operated Telephones
   
111.140   Applicability
   
111.141   Registration
   
111.142   Permit
   
111.143   Maintenance and location regulations
   
111.144   Non-maintenance; violation; correction; removal
   
111.145   Installation, placement, and enforcement authority
 
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT. Any theatrical exhibition, show, and similar entertainment
offered, operated, presented, or exhibited for gain or for admission to which
the public is required to pay a fee.
   AMUSEMENT PLACE. The place, auditorium, hall, theater, park, grounds,
gardens, tents, or other enclosures within which it is intended to produce,
offer, or present any amusement.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.002 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be subject to the right
which is expressly reserved to revoke the same should the licensee, directly or
indirectly sell or lend or offer to sell or lend, give away or offer to give
away, or in any manner exhibit or have in his or her possession with or without
intent to sell, lend, or give away, any obscene book, pamphlet, paper, drawing,
lithograph, stereoscopic picture, model, cast, instrument, or article which is
obscene or instrument or article for procuring abortion or for self-pollution
or medicine for procuring abortion or advertise the same or any of them for
sale or write or print any letter, circular, handbill, card, book, pamphlet,
advertisement, or notice of any kind or give information orally, stating when,
how, where, or by what means or of whom any of the obscene articles or things
hereinbefore mentioned can be purchased, borrowed, presented, or otherwise
obtained or are manufactured or whoever knowingly manufactures or draws and
exposes or draws with intent to sell or have sold or prints the articles or
things; provided, that nothing in this section shall be construed to affect
teaching in regularly chartered medical colleges, the publication of standard
medical books or the practice of regular practitioners of medicine or druggists
in their legitimate business.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, obscene items as listed herein are
defined as those items listed in this section which depict or describe sexual
conduct, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, in a patently offensive way
and, taken as a whole, appeal to the prurient interest in sex lacking serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value, which sexual conduct shall
include but not be limited to fornication, cunnilingus, analingus, sodomy,
fellatio, sadism, masochism, bestiality, excretory functions, masturbation and
lewd exhibition of the genitals.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.003 CHARITABLE ENTERTAINMENTS; IDENTIFICATION OF BENEFITTED PARTIES.
   No person shall use any ticket, poster, placard, badge, or other
advertisement in the promotion of any dance, bazaar, picnic, game, theater, or
other entertainment or performance purporting to be given for charitable
purposes unless the names of the persons or organizations intended to be
benefitted by the receipts from the entertainment or performance are stated on
the ticket, poster, placard, badge, or other advertisement.
(Prior Code, § 116.01) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.004 TAG DAY SOLICITATIONS.
   (A)   The solicitation of the public in the public streets, buildings, and
grounds, commonly classified as tag day solicitations, by solicitors for
charitable, benevolent, or religious institutions or organizations is
prohibited. The intention of this section is to abolish so-called tag days and
similar solicitations; provided, that the provisions of this section shall not
apply where the Mayor has first granted a permit for solicitation.
   (B)   The officer or representative of any charitable, benevolent, or
religious institution or organization or any person representing himself or
herself as an officer or agent thereof who shall solicit contributions from the
public on the streets of the city in violation of the provisions of this
section shall be subject to the penalty provided in this code.
(Prior Code, § 116.02) Penalty, see §
111.999
AMUSEMENT PLACES
§ 111.015 LICENSE.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any person to own, manage, lease, or
operate any amusement place, amusement, or carnival without first obtaining a
license as provided in this code.
(Prior Code, § 111.15)
   (B)   Application. The owner, manager, or lessee of any licensed amusement
place or carnival shall file his or her application for a performance license
or permit in conformity with the provisions of this code and shall, in
addition, offer information concerning the structure, equipment, and capacity
of the amusement place or carnival together with other relevant facts.
(Prior Code, § 111.16)
   (C)   Fees; schedule.
      (1)   Amusement places. Every amusement place shall pay an annual license
fee of $100 per year for each year the same is so used; provided, that this
provision requiring a payment of a license fee shall not apply to any church or
school building within the city, unless they are used, leased, or rented for
gain or hire, provided also, that the license shall be separate and is not to
be accepted in lieu of the license for specific amusements as provided in the
following division.
      (2)   Amusements. No person shall operate, manage, conduct, present,
offer, give, or cause to be given within the city any of the following without
first obtaining a performance license to do so and without paying the following
fees, which are subject to change at the discretion of the city.
Amusement Fee
Amusement                                                                  Fee
Amusement consisting of pony or animal rides or attractions operated by    $10
animal power for the transportation of persons, each, per day
Amusement operated by motor power or other than animal power, including
devices, apparatus, and attractions and entertainments for the             $100
transportation of persons, each, per day, except merry-go-rounds
Circus, menagerie, caravan, or hippodrome or combinations of the same,     $100
each, per day
Combined vaudeville, variety, musical, or minstrel shows, each, per day    $5
Entertainment, exhibition, performance, contest, or amusement not
specifically included in any of the categories of this section, each, per  $5
day
Exhibition to which a separate admission is charged, each, per day         $25
Merry-go-round, each, per day                                              $10
Rodeo, horse show, tent show, dog and pony show, exhibition, or show of
puppets, panorama, jugglery, sleight of hand performance, industrial and   $5
trade shows, monkey shows, wild west shows, or animal shows, each, per day
Theatrical exhibition, live or filmed, or musical concert, each, per day   $10
of operation
 
      (3)   Carnivals. Nothing herein to the contrary provided, the required
fee for conducting or exhibiting a carnival in the city shall be the sum of
$500 for each show or exhibition, which shall be good for a license period not
to exceed three days, which sum shall be payable in advance and no license
shall be granted except upon the payment of the full fee.
(Prior Code, § 111.17)
   (D)   Fees; exemptions.
      (1)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to require
a license fee from any religious, educational, charitable, literary, or
scientific club or corporation when presenting the entertainment or amusement
where the entire profit from the venture shall inure to and be used for the
organization. If any club or corporation shall present any amusement or
carnival, contemplated in or by this subchapter, where it is to receive only a
percentage of the profits, a license shall be required as provided in this
subchapter; provided, that the fee therefor shall be reduced in the same
proportion as the club’s share of the proceeds is to the gross receipts of the
show, entertainment or amusement.
      (2)   No license fee shall be required for musical entertainment or
concerts and exhibitions of painting and statuary given or made by citizens of
the city. No license fee shall be required under this subchapter for amusements
given in halls, buildings, or rooms licensed as amusement places. No license
fee shall be required for musical entertainment or concerts and exhibitions of
painting and statuary given or made by citizens of the city. No license fee
shall be required under this subchapter for amusements given in halls,
buildings, or rooms licensed as amusement places. No license fee shall be
required for historic, scientific, or benevolent or literary subjects and the
apparatus for the elucidation of the same, including specimens of fine arts.
(Prior Code, § 111.18)
   (E)   Nontransferable; revocation. All licenses issued under this subchapter
shall be nontransferable, and all licenses so issued shall be subject to the
right to revoke the same should the licensee, directly or indirectly, suffer or
permit the display or exhibition of any thing or person contrary to good morals
as provided in §
111.002.
(Prior Code, § 111.19)
Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.016 INSURANCE; BONDS.
   (A)   The applicant for a license under this subchapter shall furnish
evidence to the City Controller that a public liability insurance policy in
amounts of not less than an amount as set by the city from time to time for one
person and another amount as set by the city from time to time for any one
accident shall be in force and effect at the time the structure is to be
occupied as a place of assembly by the public.
   (B)   The applicant shall deposit with the City Treasurer a cash bond in an
amount as set by the city from time to time, conditioned upon saving harmless
from any and all liabilities or causes of action, which might arise by virtue
of the granting of a permit to the applicant, and conditioned further that no
damage will be done to the streets, sewers, trees, or adjoining property and
that no dirt, paper, litter, or other debris will be permitted to remain upon
the streets or upon any private property by the applicant. The cash bond shall
be returned to the applicant upon certification by the Chief of Police that
there has been compliance with all conditions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.20) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.017 INSPECTION.
   Every amusement place and carnival at which an admission fee is charged
shall be required to be inspected by the proper city authorities and be
licensed pursuant to the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 111.21) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.018 USE OF CITY STREETS.
   (A)   No circus, dog or pony show, menagerie, or other shows shall use the
streets of the city without first having obtained a permit from the Board of
Public Safety therefor and without having the route of travel of the show
approved in advance by the Board of Public Safety.
   (B)   The Board of Public Safety shall require as a condition for the use of
the streets that the applicant agrees to repair and replace any pavement which
may be damaged by it in the use of the streets and may require that a bond,
with sureties to be approved by the Board, be furnished, which bond guarantees
the payment.
   (C)   No applicant shall deviate from the route fixed or approved by the
Board of Public Safety.
   (D)   (1)   The marks or signs placed to serve as guides or to designate the
routes of travel shall be made in chalk or other means which shall be temporary
in character.
      (2)   The city streets shall not be used for the parking of wagons,
trucks, or other vehicles belonging to the circus, dog and pony show,
menagerie, or other show.
(Prior Code, § 111.22) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.019 ADVERTISING.
   It is unlawful for any person to post, tack, or paste any advertising matter
or banner concerning any amusement upon the outside of any building, fence, or
structure within the city; provided, that this provision shall not apply to any
regularly established billboard or those which are erected especially for this
purpose; provided further, that any and all other advertising matter concerning
the amusement or performance shall be removed immediately after the date of the
amusement.
(Prior Code, § 111.23) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.020 LOCATION.
   The amusement places, carnivals, and amusements provided in this subchapter
shall be located only at those places permitted by the zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 111.24) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.021 BOND FOR CARNIVALS.
   No license shall be granted under the terms of this subchapter until the
applicant shall have given to the city a bond in the penal sum of an amount as
set by the city from time to time, conditioned to indemnify and to keep and
save harmless the city against all liabilities, judgments, costs, damages, and
expenses which may in any way come against the city in consequence of the
granting of the license or which may accrue against, be charged to or recovered
from the city, from or by reason or account of any act or thing done, omitted,
or neglected to be done by the licensee in and about the conduct of the
carnival in the construction, maintenance, use, and removal of all materials
and equipment provided for the conduct of the carnival. The bond shall be
conditioned further that during the conduct of the carnival, public ways or
public places will be kept clean and free from paper, debris, or refuse and
that upon termination of the license, by lapse of time or otherwise, all
materials and equipment will be removed and the streets and sidewalks cleaned,
and if damaged, will be repaired and restored to the condition they were in at
the time the license was granted. The bond shall be continuing in effect until
the carnival, material, and equipment are removed and the public ways are
restored as required.
(Prior Code, § 111.25) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.022 TICKETS.
   All tickets to be used for admission to any amusement place or carnival
governed by this subchapter shall have printed thereon in legible type the name
of the owner, promoter, or sponsor, type of entertainment to be presented, the
date of the presentation and the admission price. If a government tax or
service charge is to be paid, the ticket shall show on its face the amount of
the tax or charge. If no tax is to be collected, the tickets shall so state.
(Prior Code, § 111.26) Penalty, see §
111.999
TEMPORARY STRUCTURES
§ 111.035 BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any person to erect or cause to be
erected any temporary structure composed, wholly or partly, of canvas or
similar material to be used as a place of amusement, carnival, or for any
religious, educational, or recreational purposes or for any other public
assemblages whatsoever within the city without first having made application
for and having received a permit to do so in accordance with the conditions and
limitations as set out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.40)
   (B)   Application; contents.
      (1)   The application for the permit for temporary structures, as
required in division (A) above, shall be presented to the City Controller and
shall be accompanied by a set of building plans, in duplicate, drawn to scale,
which shall indicate clearly:
         (a)   The type of construction;
         (b)   The seating arrangements;
         (c)   The aisles;
         (d)   The structural details and calculations of the seats and
supports;
         (e)   The location of all electrical wiring;
         (f)   The location of all exits;
         (g)   The location of all fire equipment within the structure and the
specifications of the equipment; and
         (h)   The location, insofar as feasible, or adjacent structures and
obstructions which might hinder the free egress of persons from the exits.
      (2)   The application shall further specify:
         (a)   Whether any open flame is intended to be used within the
structure, and if so, what precautions are to be taken to render it safe;
         (b)   The name of the person which will use the structure;
         (c)   The location of the principal place of business of the person;
         (d)   The names and addresses of the officers if firm or corporation;
         (e)   The length of time the structure is intended to be used for the
purpose for which the application was made;
         (f)   The hours of the day or night during which the structure is
intended to be used as a place of assembly;
         (g)   The formula of the solution which is to be used to flameproof
the structure;
         (h)   What provisions have been made for sanitary facilities for
persons using the premises on which the structure is to be erected or is
maintained; and
         (I)   Any other relevant information as the Fire Chief may require.
(Prior Code, § 111.41)
   (C)   Application; submission. This application and plans required by
division (B) above shall be submitted to the Fire Chief at least ten days prior
to the date of the opening of any structure, and he or she shall be notified at
least 48 hours prior to the erection of the structure, so that he or she may
make an inspection during reasonable daylight hours.
(Prior Code, § 111.42)
   (D)   Approval. If the Fire Chief finds that the following provisions are or
will be complied with by the applicant, he or she shall recommend that a
license and permit be issued to erect or maintain a temporary structure,
conditional upon reasonable limitations and requirements as he or she may deem
necessary for the safety of persons and property.
      (1)   The Fire Chief or the Fire Inspector upon his or her orders shall
determine and make his or her recommendations on a temporary structure if the
applicant has made provisions for:
         (a)   Adequate aisles, seats, platforms, and poles;
         (b)   Sufficient exits that are well marked and properly lighted;
         (c)   Lighted and unobstructed passageways to areas leading away from
the structure;
         (d)   Removal before the structure is to be used as a place of public
assembly of any pole, rope, or other obstruction in any aisle or exit;
         (e)   Inspection before the opening of each performance by a qualified
electrician to ascertain if any defects exist in the wiring, and provision made
for the immediate correction of any defects which may be found during the
inspection;
         (f)   Sufficient first aid fire appliances to be distributed
throughout the structure with operating personnel familiar with the operation
of the equipment available and assigned during the use of the structure as a
place of assembly;
         (g)   Sufficient “No Smoking” signs, the signs being visible at all
times;
         (h)   An employee at each entrance to require the extinguishing of all
cigarettes, cigars, and other smoking materials;
         (i)   Announcement at frequent intervals to the persons in the
assembly of the fact that smoking within the structure is prohibited;
         (j)   Proper safeguarding of any use of open flames or its use
prohibited;
         (k)   The clearing of straw, dry grass, sawdust, and any combustible
trash from the structure before it is opened to the public, and arrangements
made to keep the areas where debris may be expected to accumulate well
serviced, especially under open seats;
         (l)   Proper facilities for calling the city fire force;
         (m)   Special fire equipment of the city to attend at the structure
during its use as a place of public assembly as the Fire Chief may decide is
necessary for proper fire protection;
         (n)   The attendance of special police officers and firefighters as
the Fire Chief may deem necessary for the control of persons in the assembly to
prevent overcrowding, obstruction of aisles and exits, and other control as may
be necessary to render the occupation of the structure by the public safety;
and
         (o)   The tent and canvas parts of the structure and all combustible
decorative materials, including curtains, acoustic materials, streamers, cloth,
cotton batting, straw, vines, leaves, trees, and moss, to be rendered
fireproof.
      (2)   The City Health Officer shall make an inspection to determine if
provision has been made for satisfactory sanitary facilities on or near the
premises on which the temporary structure is maintained or is to be maintained.
Upon completing his or her inspection, the City Health Inspector shall make his
or her recommendations concerning a permit.
      (3)   (a)   The Building Commissioner shall make an inspection to
determine whether satisfactory provisions have been made for the public safety
of persons on or near the premises on which the temporary structure is
maintained or is to be maintained.
         (b)   Upon completion of his or her inspection, the Building
Commissioner shall make his or her recommendations concerning a permit.
(Prior Code, § 111.43)
§ 111.036 OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   Upon completion of a temporary structure, it shall not be used as a
place of assembly until the Fire Chief has inspected the entire premises upon
which the structure is located.
   (B)   If the Fire Chief finds that all of the limitations and requirements
of the permit and this subchapter have been complied with and that the
structure has been erected in accordance with the plans and specifications
submitted with the application, he or she shall recommend that a permit be
granted to occupy the premises.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to cause or permit the occupancy of the
structure as a place of assembly, without the issuance of the permit to occupy
the structure as herein provided.
   (D)   If the Fire Chief finds that the structure or the premises on which it
is located is being maintained in violation of any of the provisions of the
permit or any of the provisions of this subchapter or in a manner as to
constitute a fire hazard, he or she may revoke the permit to occupy herein
provided.
   (E)   Any person whose permit to occupy has been revoked as provided in this
subchapter may, within ten days after receipt of a notice thereof, appeal to
the Mayor for a hearing thereon, and the decision of the Mayor in this regard
shall be final. If no appeal is taken within ten days as provided herein, the
action of the Fire Chief shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 111.44) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.037 ATTENDANCE OF CITY FIRE EQUIPMENT AT LOCATION.
   If the Fire Chief determines that the attendance of fire equipment at the
location of a temporary structure during the use of the structure as a place of
assembly is necessary for the safety of persons and property, the Fire Chief
shall require that the applicant deposit with the City Controller a sum equal
to the reasonable value of the use of the equipment and the furnishing of the
necessary personnel for the time as will be required in order to reimburse the
city for the expense.
(Prior Code, § 111.45) Penalty, see §
111.999
COIN-OPERATED DEVICES
§ 111.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT GAME MACHINE. Any device, whether mechanical, electrical, or
electronic, which shall be ready for play by the insertion of a coin, token, or
payment to an attendant and may be operated by the public for use as
entertainment or amusement. It shall include video games, pinball machines, and
pool tables. It does not include vending machines which do not incorporate
amusement features, nor does it include juke boxes.
   CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINE. Any automatic vending machine commercially used
for the sale of cigarettes and matches and controlled by the insertion of
coins.
   COIN VENDING MACHINE. Any automatic vending machine commercially used for
the sale of food and/or drink.
   JUKE BOX. Any music vending machine or device commercially used, which upon
the insertion of a coin, token, or payment to an attendant, may be operated by
the public for the emission of music or similar amusement.
(Prior Code, § 116.15)
§ 111.051 GAMBLING DEVICES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall in any way be construed to authorize,
license, or permit any gambling devices whatsoever or any mechanism that has
been judicially determined to be a gambling device in this state or which is
contrary to law.
(Prior Code, § 116.16)
§ 111.052 MAINTENANCE; IDENTIFICATION; REFUNDS.
   (A)   No person shall permit a cigarette vending machine, coin vending
machine, juke box, or amusement game machine to be maintained for use or
operation by the public when they are not in proper working order. The owner of
the machines or devices shall be responsible for maintaining or causing to be
maintained any machine which is out of order.
   (B)   A placard shall be placed on every machine or device in a conspicuous
place which shall contain the name of the owner and person in charge of the
machine or device and shall, also, state that the person in charge of the
machine or device will refund to any person money deposited for which service
has not been received, and it is made the duty of the person to do so.
(Prior Code, § 116.17) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.053 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person holding a license under this subchapter shall permit the
playing of juke boxes between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day.
   (B)   No person shall install or make amusement game machines available for
public use without first complying with all standards and regulations on
amusement game machines which have been set forth in the zoning regulations of
this code.
   (C)   (1)   No person holding a license under this subchapter shall display
or offer any cigarette vending machine, juke box, coin vending machine, or
amusement game machine unless it is offered to the public.
      (2)   The devices shall be kept in good and safe condition for the
purposes for which they are to be used.
   (D)   No person holding a license under this subchapter shall permit the
devices to be operated to constitute a nuisance or to permit the sound of the
devices to disturb the peace and quiet of other persons in the vicinity of the
premises where they are operated.
   (E)   No device shall be operated or be permitted to be operated in a manner
which is offensive to good morals.
   (F)   No coin vending machines shall be operated or be permitted to be
operated to sell any article of food or drink therefrom unless the same shall
be fit for human consumption, shall be sanitary and shall comply with
provisions of law and of this code.
(Prior Code, § 116.18) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.054 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any person within the city to display or
keep for operation any cigarette vending machine, coin vending machine, juke
box, or amusement game machine, as defined in this subchapter, without first
obtaining a license from the city, as herein provided. No person under 21 years
of age or any person who is an alien shall be issued a license under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 116.19)
   (B)   Application. The application for a license under this subchapter shall
be made in duplicate to the City Controller upon forms to be supplied by him or
her for that purpose. shall be verified by the owner of the machines, and shall
comply with the general licensing provisions of this code. The application
shall state the place where the machine or device is to be displayed or
operated, the business conducted at that place, and a description of the
machine to be covered by the license.
(Prior Code, § 116.20)
   (C)   Investigation; approvals.
      (1)   One copy of the application for a license under this subchapter
shall be referred to the Chief of Police, who shall investigate the location
wherein it is proposed to operate the machine or device, ascertain if the
applicant is a person of good moral character and either approve or disapprove
the application.
      (2)   One copy of the application for a license under this subchapter
shall be referred to the Building Commissioner who shall investigate the
location wherein it is proposed to operate the devices, ascertain if the
standards and regulations of the zoning regulations of this code have been met,
and either approve or disapprove the application.
      (3)   The Department of Inspections and Permit shall inspect all devices
to determine if they are safe and in compliance with the electrical code and
shall either approve or disapprove the application.
      (4)   The City Health Officer shall inspect all coin vending machines and
the contents thereof which vend food or drink and shall either approve or
disapprove the application. He or she shall also approve the premises where the
machines are kept.
(Prior Code, § 116.21)
   (D)   Fees.
      (1)   Every applicant, before being granted a license, shall pay the
following annual license fee for the privilege of operating or maintaining for
operation each cigarette vending machine, coin vending machine, juke box, or
amusement game machine as defined in this subchapter. The fees below are
subject to change at the discretion of the city.
 
Amusement game machines, per machine    $100
Cigarette vending machines, per machine $25
Coin vending machines, per machine      $25
Juke boxes, per machine                 $25
 
      (2)   The entire license fee shall be paid in advance without prorating.
(Prior Code, § 116.22)
   (E)   Issuance. Upon compliance with all necessary conditions by the
applicant for a license under this subchapter, the City Controller shall issue
a license for each cigarette vending machine, coin vending machine, juke box,
or amusement game machine.
(Prior Code, § 116.23)
   (F)   Display; transfer.
      (1)   Each cigarette vending machine, coin vending machine, juke box, or
amusement game machine licensed under this subchapter shall contain suitable
identification marks and numbers and a card certifying to the issuance of a
license for each machine, juke box, or device shall be affixed and be plainly
visible or be posted permanently and conspicuously at the location of the
machine or device in the premises wherein it is to be operated or maintained.
      (2)   The license, except for amusement game machines, may be transferred
from one machine or device to another similar machine upon applying to the City
Controller to the effect and the giving of a description and the serial number
of the new machine or device. Not more than one cigarette vending machine, coin
vending machine, juke box, or amusement game machines shall be operated under
one license and the applicant or licensee shall be required to obtain a license
for each and every one displayed or operated by him or her.
      (3)   If the licensee shall move his or her place of business to another
location within the city, the license may be transferred to the new location
upon application to the City Controller, giving the street and number of the
new location. The new location shall be approved by the Chief of Police, the
Building Commissioner and the City Health Officer in the same manner as
provided in division (C) above.
(Prior Code, § 116.24)
   (G)   Revocation. Every license issued under this subchapter is subject to
the general powers of revocation should the licensee, directly or indirectly,
violate this code or state law.
(Prior Code, § 116.25)
NIGHT CLUBS, DANCE HALLS, AND SKATING RINKS
§ 111.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NIGHT CLUB. Each and every place or establishment in the city where
alcoholic beverages, whether distilled, malted, or fermented, may be sold under
a state license, to be consumed on the premises where sold and where, in
addition to the sale of the alcoholic beverages, dancing is permitted or floor
shows are given.
   PRIVATE HALL.
      (1)   Any room, place, or space, enclosed or unenclosed, in which private
dances, receptions, and parties shall be held to which only the members of the
organization owning or leasing the premises, and their guests, may gain
admission.
      (2)   A PRIVATE HALL becomes a public hall when the general public may
gain admission.
   PUBLIC DANCE. A dance to which admission can be had by payment of a fee or
by the purchase, possession, or presentation of a ticket or token, or at which
a charge is made for care of clothing or other property or to which the public
generally may gain admission with or without payment of a fee, or where an
individual fee is charged or collected for participation in any individual
dance.
   PUBLIC HALL. Any room, place, or space, enclosed or unenclosed, in which a
public dance reception and party shall be held and to which the public
generally may gain admission.
   SKATING RINK. Enclosed rooms or structures for skating.
(Prior Code, § 116.40) (Ord. 3375, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.066 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required; qualifications.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to own, operate, or manage any public
dance hall, night club, or skating rink in the city without first having
obtained a license so to do.
      (2)   Every licensee or the manager of a business licensed under the
provisions of this subchapter must be a citizen of the United States.
      (3)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or who has been twice
convicted of a violation of this subchapter shall be entitled to hold or
operate a public dance hall, night club, or a skating rink.
(Prior Code, § 116.41)
   (B)   Application; issuance. The application and issuance of a license for a
night club, public dance hall, or skating rink shall be made in conformity with
the general licensing provisions of this code. The applicant shall state the
size of the hall, room, place, or space to be used. In addition the applicant
for a night club license shall be required to show:
      (1)   Detailed and legible plans of the entire and specific premises to
be used under the license;
      (2)   The seating capacity for which the night club is contemplated;
      (3)   The names of five reputable householders of the city who have
resided in the city for at least five years prior to the application to be used
as reference as to the moral character, credit standing, and general reputation
of the applicant;
      (4)   Places when and where applicant has engaged in any business;
      (5)   The entire and detailed criminal record, if any, of the applicant;
and
      (6)   The name of the person owning the building or structure in which
applicant intends to carry on the business.
(Prior Code, § 116.42)
   (C)   Fees; period of issuance.
      (1)   The annual license fee for a night club shall be an amount as set
by the city from time to time.
      (2)   The license period shall be in conformity with the general
licensing provisions of this code.
      (3)   The annual fee for a public hall shall be an amount as set by the
city from time to time.
      (4)   The annual fee for a skating rink shall be an amount as set by the
city from time to time.
      (5)   The annual fee for a private hall shall be be an amount as set by
the city from time to time; however, no fee shall be charged if the private
hall also has a public hall license.
(Prior Code, § 116.43)
   (D)   Investigation; approval of officials. In addition to the investigation
required under the general provisions of this code, the City Controller shall
require the applicant to obtain a signed approval of the following officials:
      (1)   City Health Officer, showing that the premises are clean,
healthful, and sanitary and that they are properly ventilated and equipped and
have at least two separate toilets for both men and women;
      (2)   Building Commissioner, stating that the building is constructed
properly to permit the holding or conducting of a congregation, and that the
location is expressly permitted by the zoning regulations of this code; and
      (3)   Fire Chief, stating that the building and hall are properly
equipped with adequate fire escapes, exits, and are properly safeguarded
against fires.
(Prior Code, § 116.44)
   (E)   Forfeiture. The license of any person convicted of two violations of
any of the provisions of this subchapter shall automatically operate as a
forfeiture of the license issued under this subchapter to the owner or
operator. No new license shall be issued to the former licensee until after the
expiration of one year.
(Prior Code, § 116.45)
(Ord. 3375, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.067 INSURANCE FOR SKATING RINKS.
   All licensees, before being permitted to operate skating rinks under this
subchapter, shall furnish an approved insurance policy in the sum of an amount
as set by the city from time to time protecting persons against negligence in
the operation of the skating rink or in the use and maintenance of its
equipment.
(Prior Code, § 116.46) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.068 HOURS OF OPERATION OF PUBLIC DANCE HALLS.
   No person shall be permitted to operate or hold a public dance between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.; provided, that the City Controller, with the
approval of the Chief of Police, may grant the permits, in writing, allowing
the establishments to operate until a later hour on special occasions; provided
further, that the application for the permit shall have been filed not less
than 48 hours before the dance.
(Prior Code, § 116.47) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.069 EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.
   It is unlawful for any person operating a night club or public dance to
employ, allow, or permit any person under the age of 18 years to act as an
entertainer or to be employed in any other capacity. It is unlawful for any
person who holds a public dance or who owns, operates, or manages a night club
to permit any person under 18 years of age to loiter in or around his or her
place of business, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian; provided, that
the provisions of this subchapter shall not prohibit the employment of minors
in a public dance hall under 18 years to assist in the check or cloak room when
an adult is also working therein.
(Prior Code, § 116.48) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.070 MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE OR PARENTAGE TO GAIN ADMITTANCE OR
EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to represent himself or herself to have
reached the age of 18 years in order to obtain admission to a night club or
public dance hall or obtain employment or to remain or participate in the night
club or public dance hall.
   (B)   It is also unlawful for any person to represent himself or herself to
be a parent or guardian of any person for the purpose of avoiding the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 116.49) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.071 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   The licensed premises of a public dance hall, night club, and skating rink
shall be open at all times to inspection by the duly constituted city and state
authorities for the purposes of inspecting the premises to determine whether
there has been compliance with all fire, sanitary, and police regulations of
this code.
(Prior Code, § 116.50) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.072 VENTILATION, TOILETS, AND DRINKING FOUNTAINS.
   Every public dance hall, night club, and skating rink shall have proper
provisions made for ventilation, be supplied with separate and sufficient
toilet conveniences for both men and women in good sanitary condition and with
sanitary drinking fountains, all to the approval of the Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 116.51) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.073 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT.
   The licensee shall, at all times, keep and maintain the premises and
equipment in a clean, wholesome, and safe condition.
(Prior Code, § 116.52) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.074 PUBLIC HALL; ATTENDANCE OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of any person operating any public hall or private hall
used as a public hall as defined in this subchapter for the purpose of holding
public dances, receptions, and parties either upon the payment of admission fee
or otherwise, to request for the duration of the function two police officers
for the purpose of maintaining peace, quietude, and dignity of the function. It
shall be the duty of the person or organization holding or proposing to hold
the dance to make the request to the Chief of Police at least 24 hours prior to
the holding of the function. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police on
presentation of the application to assign regular or special police officers to
the duty. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or lessor of the public
hall to state these conditions in their contract when leasing any hall for the
purposes as mentioned in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 116.53) (Ord. 3375, passed - -1984) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.075 PUBLIC DANCES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No licensee under the provisions of this subchapter or any other person, by
himself, herself, or another, shall permit his or her establishment or public
dance to:
   (A)   Become a place for thieves, prostitutes, procurers, vagrants, or other
disorderly persons to congregate or loiter;
   (B)   Permit gambling or the placing or using of any gambling apparatus or
paraphernalia; or
   (C)   Allow any intoxicated person to dance or loiter.
(Prior Code, § 116.54) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.076 C-3 NORTH HARBOR BUSINESS DISTRICT: CONDITIONS OF LIQUOR LICENSE.
   The following operation and design requirements shall be applied to all new
businesses licensed to sell alcoholic liquor located within the C-3 North
Harbor Business District. Existing businesses licensed to sell alcoholic liquor
within the C-3 North Harbor Business District shall have 24 months to comply
with the design requirements here within and shall be required to comply with
the operation requirements upon approval of this section by the City Council.
   (A)   Closing hours.
      (1)   (a)   This chapter, all authorized licensed eating/drinking
establishments are permitted to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption in the
dining facilities in conjunction with and incidental to the purchase (for fair
consideration) and consumption of a sit-down meal. The bar area for the sale of
alcoholic liquor and beverages shall be no more than 30% of the net square
footage of the establishment. Licensed eating/drinking establishments are not
authorized to sell packaged alcoholic liquor or beverages to consumers.
         (b)   The bar cannot be self-contained or have separate entrance and
exit access from the dining facilities. The bar and the dining facilities must
close at the same time.
         (c)   All patrons, customers, and all persons other than the licensee
and employees thereof, in the actual pursuit of their duties as such, shall
leave the premises not later than 15 minutes following the closing hours per
state law.
      (2)   In the case of hotels and recreational facilities, where the sale
of alcoholic liquor is conducted on the premises, the bar area for the sale of
alcoholic liquor shall be no more than 30% of the net square footage of the
establishment.
   (B)   Election days. Licensees may not sell at retail any alcoholic liquor
on the day of any national, state, county, or municipal election, including
primary elections, during the hours the polls are open, within the political
area in which such election is being held.
   (C)   Sale of packaged liquor. The sale of packaged liquor is prohibited.
   (D)   Alcoholic drinks. Alcoholic drinks cannot be taken off the premises.
   (E)   Quantity sales for on-premises liquor consumption. It shall be
unlawful for any licensee, other than a Class I or Class J licensee offering
restaurant service, and possessing a bottle permit, within the meaning of that
term as defined in this chapter, to sell, give away, or permit to be sold,
served, or given away for consumption on the licensed premises any distilled
spirits except by the glass, in individual servings not exceeding three fluid
ounces.
   (F)   Alcoholic beverages at reduced prices. It shall be unlawful for any
licensee licensed hereunder to sell, offer for sale, dispense, or serve any
alcoholic beverages at reduced prices or promotional drinks, except as
authorized as liquor tasting licensees.
   (G)   Happy hours restrictions.
      (1)   All retail liquor licensees shall maintain a schedule of the prices
charged for all drinks of alcoholic liquor to be served and consumed on the
licensed premises or in any room or part thereof. Whenever a license holder
operates on its premises more than one establishment at which drinks of
alcoholic liquor are sold at retail, the license holder shall maintain at each
such establishment a separate schedule of the prices charged for such drinks at
the establishment.
      (2)   No retail liquor licensee or employee or agent of such licensee
shall:
         (a)   Serve two or more drinks of alcoholic liquor at one time to one
person for consumption by that one person, except selling or delivering wine by
the bottle or carafe;
         (b)   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or
contest which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of
alcoholic liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises;
or
         (c)   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licensed
premises, any of the practices prohibited under this division (G)(2).
      (3)   Nothing in division (G)(2) above shall be construed to prohibit a
liquor licensee from:
         (a)   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
         (b)   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package;
         (c)   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
         (d)   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a contract
between a liquor license holder and another group for the holding of any
function, meeting, convention, or trade show on the premises of the licensee;
         (e)   Providing room service to persons renting rooms at a hotel;
         (f)   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including but not limited
to buckets), carafes, or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are customarily sold
in such manner and delivered to two or more persons at one time; or
         (g)   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in
whole or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment
not regularly scheduled.
      (4)   A violation of this section shall be grounds for suspension or
revocation of the retailer’s liquor license as provided by the current city
business license ordinances and all current state statutes.
   (H)   Displaying liquor and tobacco licenses. Every liquor and tobacco
licensee shall cause the license or licenses to be framed and hung in plain
view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 116.55) (Ord. 0-08-0031, passed 11-24-2008) Penalty, see §
111.999
POOL ROOMS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 111.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLIARD ROOM. Any public place where the game of billiards is permitted to
be played for hire or gain within the city.
   BILLIARDS. Any of the several games played on a table surrounded by an
elastic edge of cushions with balls which are impelled by a cue, including all
forms of the game known as carom billiards.
   BOWLING ALLEY. Includes bowling alleys, pin and ball alleys, box ball
alleys, skee-ball alleys, and all alleys of similar character.
(Prior Code, § 121.01)
§ 111.091 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a billiard room or bowling alley between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. or permit any person to play billiards or bowl
or permit any person in the room in which the table or alley is kept.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit regular employees from
performing necessary work within the premises.
(Prior Code, § 121.02) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.092 SANITATION.
   The entire premises in which a billiard room or bowling alley is located
shall be kept, at all times, in a clean and sanitary condition and shall comply
with all provisions relating to the same and shall be subject to all sanitary
rules and regulations prescribed by the Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 121.03) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.093 GAMBLING.
   Gambling in any form in any billiard room or bowling alley is prohibited;
provided, that this provision shall not be construed to prevent the giving of
cash prizes or merchandise to billiard players or bowlers in tournament,
league, or any other competitive play.
(Prior Code, § 121.04) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.094 MINORS.
   It is unlawful for any person to play billiards and to be permitted to
remain in a billiard room who has not reached the age of 18 years, unless
accompanied by a parent or guardian, and it is unlawful for any person to
represent himself or herself to have reached the age of 18 years in order to
obtain admission to or to be permitted to remain where the person in fact is
under 18 years of age.
(Prior Code, § 121.05) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.095 BOWLING ALLEYS TO COMPLY WITH ZONING REGULATIONS.
   No person shall conduct, own, operate, or manage within the city any bowling
alleys in any building, structure, or place unless there is compliance with the
zoning regulations or other applicable provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 121.06) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.096 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. No person shall conduct, own, operate, or manage for profit
a billiard room or bowling alley within the city without first obtaining a
license to do so. No person shall be eligible for a license under this chapter
who is not a citizen of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 121.07)
   (B)   Application; issuance.
      (1)   Applications for licenses under this chapter shall be made in
conformity with the general licensing requirements of this code. The
application shall also include information concerning citizenship; employment
or business of the applicant during previous five years; complete record of
convictions, if any, of felonies or misdemeanors; the number of bowling alleys
or billiard tables to be licensed. The applicant shall also give three persons
for references who are householders in the city. The applications shall be
referred to the Chief of Police for investigation as to the moral status of the
applicant and the moral conditions surrounding the proposed location.
      (2)   The Chief of Police shall cause an investigation to be made as to
the character of the applicant and of the officers of the club, society, group,
or corporation and shall report the result to the City Controller.
      (3)   If the City Controller, upon the report of the investigation, shall
find that any of the persons named in the application are not of good moral
character or have been connected with a billiard room where the license has
been revoked and has not been restored, he or she may refuse to issue the
license.
(Prior Code, § 121.08)
   (C)   Fees.
      (1)   The annual fee for a billiard room containing only one billiard
table shall be an amount as set by the city from time to time.
      (2)   The annual license fee for a billiard room containing more than one
billiard table shall be an amount as set by the city from time to time.
      (3)   (a)   The annual fee for each billiard table shall be an amount as
set by the city from time to time.
         (b)   The fee for each table shall be in addition to the billiard room
fee and must be paid for each table. Persons conducting, owning, operating, or
managing a billiard room containing more than one table must pay the billiard
room fee in addition to the fee for each table.
         (c)   Persons conducting, owning, operating, or managing a billiard
room with only one billiard table need pay only the fee for the table and need
not pay the billiard room fee.
      (4)   The annual license fee for each separate bowling or pin and ball
alley shall be an amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 121.09)
   (D)   Transferability. No transfer of any license granted under the
provisions of this chapter shall be permitted, except with express written
consent of the City Controller and in conformity with the general licensing
provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 121.10) Penalty, see §
111.999
SHOOTING GALLERIES AND GUN CLUBS
§ 111.110 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required; citizenship of applicant.
      (1)   No person shall conduct, own, or operate any shooting gallery,
rifle range, gun club, or other place where firearms are discharged within the
city without first being licensed to do so.
      (2)   No person who is not a citizen of the United States shall be
eligible to obtain a license under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 126.01)
   (B)   Application; prerequisite inspection.
      (1)   Application for a license under this chapter shall be in conformity
with the general licensing requirements of this code.
      (2)   When the application is made, the Chief of Police shall cause to be
made an inspection of the premises in or upon which it is intended or desired
to conduct or operate the shooting gallery, rifle range, gun club, or other
business subject to this license to determine whether the premises are properly
located and are of sufficient size, and that the targets and other equipment of
the premises will be placed, kept, and maintained in a manner and in a
condition as to produce the maximum degree of safety.
      (3)   In addition to the information generally required, the applicant
must state the specific caliber of cartridges to be used, and there can be no
deviation from the stated size without the written consent of the city, as
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 126.02)
   (C)   Fees. The annual license fee for a license provided under the terms of
this chapter shall be an amount as set by the city from time to time, and no
license shall be issued except upon the payment of the full license fee.
(Prior Code, § 126.03)
§ 111.111 LOCATION; PREMISES APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No shooting gallery shall be located anywhere within the city unless
expressly permitted in the zoning regulations of this code.
   (B)   Each rifle range, gun club, or other place upon or in which firearms
may be discharged shall be sufficiently ample to permit the discharge thereon
or therein without endangering the safety of the public or persons living
adjacent to the premises, and the targets or butts shall be so placed, kept,
and maintained as to permit the use of the premises and the discharge thereon
or therein of firearms with the maximum of safety to the public, to persons
living adjacent to the premises and to persons using the premises upon which
the rifle range or gun club is being conducted or operated.
   (C)   The Chief of Police must approve the premises before it can be used
for a shooting gallery or gun club.
(Prior Code, § 126.04)
§ 111.112 SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Targets shall be of the stationary bull’s-eye type; all moving targets
are prohibited unless approved by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   No firearms shall be used, kept, or discharged within any of the
premises licensed under this chapter other than 22 caliber rifles or pistols,
and no ammunition larger than 22 caliber long rifle rim fire cartridge shall be
used, except upon the written recommendation of the Chief of Police and the
approval of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may make other reasonable regulations for reasons
of safety, all subject to approval of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Prior Code, § 126.05) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.113 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter pertaining to the licensing, establishment,
and operation of shooting galleries and gun clubs shall not apply to the police
force of the city.
(Prior Code, § 126.06)
ESTABLISHMENTS SELLING ITEMS COMMONLY USED AS DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 111.125 BLUNT CIGARS AND SIMILAR ITEMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any retail business to sell
of offer for sale any of the following: any item that constitutes drug
paraphernalia as that term is used in I.C. 35-48-4-8.1, 35-48-4-8.3 and 35-48-
4-8.5 where the seller knows, or under the circumstances reasonably should
know, that it would be used to convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation of
that Act, especially any of the following:
   (A)   Containers, bags, capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers
used, intended for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances, as well as cigars, cigarettes, and related items
intended for use in concealing or holding the substances; and
   (B)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
      (1)   Cigars sold singly, flavored cigars known as blunts, unflavored
blunts, flavored and unflavored blunt wraps, cigarette rolling papers,
cigarillos, and tiparillos;
      (2)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
      (3)   Water pipes;
      (4)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      (5)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      (6)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material such as
a marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
      (7)   Chamber pipes;
      (8)   Carburetor pipes;
      (9)   Electric pipes;
      (10)   Air-driven pipes;
      (11)   Chillums;
      (12)   Bongs;
      (13)   Ice pipes or chillers;
      (14)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials; and
      (15)   Rose and pen combinations.
(Prior Code, § 124.01) (Ord. 0-08-0002, passed 1-28-2008) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.126 LOCATION OF SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any retail business, to sell
or offer for sale within 500 feet of a school, recreation center, day care
center, church, or community center any of the items identified above
regardless of the intent as to use of the item.
(Prior Code, § 124.02) (Ord. 0-08-0002, passed 1-28-2008) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.127 EXCEPTION.
   This chapter shall not apply to cigarettes in packages of 20 or more.
(Prior Code, § 124.03) (Ord. 0-08-0002, passed 1-28-2008)
COIN-OPERATED TELEPHONES
§ 111.140 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions set out in this chapter shall apply to all coin-operated
telephones in the city.
(Prior Code, § 129.01) (Ord. 0-94-0006, passed - -1994)
§ 111.141 REGISTRATION.
   Owners/installers of existing coin-operated telephones and those wishing to
install new coin-operated telephones shall register with the City Controller on
forms provided by the Controller’s office which shall include information as to
the current address, telephone number, and license number of the owner/
installer.
(Prior Code, § 129.02) (Ord. 0-94-0006, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.142 PERMIT.
   (A)   Required; fees. No coin-operated telephone shall be installed until a
permit for the installation shall be issued by the Board of Public Works and
Safety. The fee for the permit shall be an amount as set by the city from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 129.03)
   (B)   Application; installation determination authority.
      (1)   To obtain a permit an application shall be filed including a
drawing showing the proposed location of the telephone, and the permit fee must
be paid. The Board of Public Works and Safety shall determine whether the
proposed coin-operated telephone is necessary and reasonable for the proposed
location.
      (2)   Representative(s) from the Board of Public Works and Safety may
canvass residents and businesses in the area adjacent to and within 500 feet of
the proposed telephone to determine if the proposed telephone is reasonable and
necessary. No coin-operated telephone shall be located within 500 feet of an
existing coin-operated telephone, unless a showing of hardship and necessity is
made by the individual or corporation requesting the permit.
(Prior Code, § 129.04)
(Ord. 0-94-0006, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.143 MAINTENANCE AND LOCATION REGULATIONS.
   All coin-operated telephones and their surroundings shall be checked and
maintained on a regular basis by the owner. Any debris or graffiti shall be
removed. All coin-operated telephones shall be located within the property
lines on which they are located, and shall be set back from the property line a
minimum of three feet, or more if necessary so the telephone shall not block or
restrict movement upon the public sidewalk or right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 129.05) (Ord. 0-94-0006, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.144 NON-MAINTENANCE; VIOLATION; CORRECTION; REMOVAL.
   Any telephone found by a representative of the Board of Public Works and
Safety to not be regularly maintained shall receive a written notice of
violation. The notice shall provide the owner 14 days to correct the violation.
If the violation is not corrected, the telephone may be removed with notice by
mail to the owner/installer.
(Prior Code, § 129.06) (Ord. 0-94-0006, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.145 INSTALLATION, PLACEMENT, AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall authorize the issuance of permits
for the installation of coin-operated telephones, and shall further regulate
the placement of telephones, and shall enforce other rules and regulations as
the city may from time to time promulgate with regard to the technical
requirements for installation, maintenance, and removal of telephones,
including but not limited to the following restrictions:
   (A)   Restrict pay phones from receiving incoming calls;
   (B)   Provide pager access control which disables the ability of a pay phone
to input date into pagers;
   (C)   Restrict pay phones from accepting coins during the evening and early
morning hours.
(Prior Code, § 129.07) (Ord. 0-94-0006, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Coin-operated telephones installed in violation of this chapter shall
be removed and confiscated within seven days notice to owners of the property
upon which they are located. In addition, telephones which, although validly
installed, have, in the opinion of the city, become a public nuisance, or have
otherwise contributed to criminality or decay, may be removed and confiscated
within 14-day written notice. Individuals and corporations guilty of a
violation of the provisions of this chapter may be cited and fined an amount
not to exceed an amount as set by the city from time to time for each
violation. Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate violation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 129.99) (Ord. 0-94-0006, passed - -1994)
CHAPTER 112: FOOD AND BEVERAGES
Section
Beverage Delivery and Manufacture
   
112.001   License
   
112.002   Sanitation
Bed and Breakfasts; Retail Food Establishments
   
112.015   Title
   
112.016   Purpose
   
112.017   Authority
   
112.018   Adoption by reference
   
112.019   Definitions
   
112.020   Permits
   
112.021   Fees
   
112.022   Unwholesome, adulterated, or misbranded food
   
112.023   Inspection of retail food establishments
Wholesale Itinerant Produce Dealers
   
112.035   Defined
   
112.036   Identification of vehicles
   
112.037   Inspections of food and vehicles
   
112.038   Sale of unwholesome products
   
112.039   Health and sanitation
   
112.040   Inspection and sealing of weights and measures
   
112.041   Licenses
BEVERAGE DELIVERY AND MANUFACTURE
§ 112.001 LICENSE.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to deliver from wagons or other
vehicles to soft drink parlors, places of business, or other houses or
buildings selling beer, pop, soda water, seltzer, or carbonated beverages or
any of them within the city without first having obtained a license to do so. A
license granted under this subchapter shall authorize the delivering of the
articles designated by any and all employees of the person.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture for sale,
barter, exchange, or otherwise any soda drinks intended or reasonably likely to
be used as a beverage without first obtaining a license to do so; provided,
that this section shall not apply to any person selling water, nor any persons
manufacturing wine or vinegar for his or her own domestic consumption, nor to
the sale of juices or liquids for purely cooking purposes.
(Prior Code, § 114.01)
   (B)   Fee. The application and issuance of licenses under this chapter shall
be in conformity with the general licensing provisions of
Chapter 110. The annual fee for licenses issued under this subchapter shall be
an amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 114.02)
Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 112.002 SANITATION.
   All sanitary roles and requirements must be met and the Board of Health
shall cause reasonable and necessary inspections to be made.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) Penalty, see §
10.999
BED AND BREAKFASTS; RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.015 TITLE.
   This subchapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall
be known as the Retail Food Establishment and Bed and Breakfast Establishment
Subchapter and may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as “this
subchapter.”
(Prior Code, § 114.15) (Ord. 0-01-0004, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 112.016 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to safeguard public health and
assure that food provided to consumers is safe, unadulterated, and honestly
presented.
   (B)   It established definitions; sets standards for management and
personnel, food operations, and equipment and facilities; and provides for
retail food establishment plan review, permits, inspections, fines, and
employee restriction.
(Prior Code, § 114.16) (Ord. 0-01-0004, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 112.017 AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer and/or his or her representative is hereby authorized to
issue retail food establishment, temporary food establishment, and bed and
breakfast establishment permits, collect permit fees and fines, perform
inspections, order, or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
subchapter, and is otherwise authorized to perform all actions necessary for
the administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.17) (Ord. 0-01-0004, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 112.018 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Title I.A.C. 7-20 Retail Food Sanitation Requirements and 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5
Bed and Breakfast Establishments are hereby incorporated by reference in this
subchapter, as many be amended from time to time, as the same published in the
State Register of the State Administrative Code with effective dates as fixed
therein. Copies of 410 I.A.C. 7-20-1 et seq. and 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5-1 U et seq.
are available and on file in the office of the Health Department of the office
of the City Controller.
(Prior Code, § 114.18) (Ord. 0-01-0004, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 112.019 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Person who has notified the health authority of intent to operate
a retail food establishment, temporary food establishment, or bed and breakfast
and who has made application for a retail food establishment permit or bed and
breakfast establishment permit.
   BED AND BREAKFAST.
      (1)   An operator occupied residence that meets the following conditions:
         (a)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
         (b)   Has not more than 14 guestrooms;
         (c)   Provides breakfast to the guests as part of the fee; and
         (d)   Provides sleeping accommodations for not more than 30
consecutive days to a particular guest.
      (2)   The term does not include hotels, motels, boarding houses, or food
service establishments.
   CATERING. The preparation of food at the site listed on the permit and
transportation of that food to another location for service by the retail food
establishment employees.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Health or its authorized representative.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The health authority having jurisdiction in the city and/or
its representative.
   MOBILE FOOD SERVICE. An operation that provides food to a consumer from a
mobile food unit or a pushcart.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A vehicle mounted food service establishment that is not
on a permanent foundation and is readily movable.
   OPERATOR. The person, corporation, or legal entity that owns the business;
permittee.
   PERMITTEE. The person(s) or other legal entity that owns the business and
whose name appears on the permit.
   PUSHCART. A non-self-propelled vehicle limited to serving commissary wrapped
food, non-potentially hazardous food, or limited to the preparation and serving
of frankfurters.
   REGULATORY AUTHORITY. The local, state, or federal enforcement body and/or
its authorized representative having jurisdiction over a retail food
establishment or bed and breakfast establishment.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. An operation that stores, prepares, packages,
serves, vends, or otherwise provides food for human consumption or that
relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or indirectly through a
delivery service. The term includes an element of the operation such a
transportation vehicle, a central preparation facility that supplies a vending
location or satellite feed location, an operation that is conducted in a
mobile, stationary, temporary, or permanent facility or location, where
consumption is on or off the premises and regardless of whether there is a
charge for the food.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A retail food establishment that operates for
a period of no more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event
or celebration.
   VENDING MACHINE OPERATION. The placement, service, and maintenance of one or
more vending machines to make food available to the public via a vending
machine.
(Prior Code, § 114.19) (Ord. 0-01-0004, passed 2-12-2001)
§ 112.020 PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a retail food establishment
or a bed and breakfast establishment in the city that does not possess a valid
permit issued by the Health Officer. The permit shall be posted in the
establishment in a place conspicuous to the public.
   (A)   An applicant may apply for a permit by submitting a completed
application form along with any other necessary required information to the
Health Officer. Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements
specified by the State Department of Health Codes, 410 I.A.C. 7-20-427, 410
I.A.C. 7-20-430, and 410 I.A.C. 7-20-431 shall be entitled to receive and
retain a permit.
   (B)   Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name of the establishment;
      (2)   Name of the person(s) or legal entity to whom the permit is
granted;
      (3)   Address of the premises;
      (4)   Inclusive dates that the permit is valid; and
      (5)   Any other pertinent information as may be required by the Health
Officer.
   (C)   A separate permit shall be required for each retail food establishment
operated at a separate location.
   (D)   An applicant for any type of mobile food service operation must submit
along with the application for a retail food establishment permit verification
of the following:
      (1)   Each mobile food unit or pushcart shall operate from a commissary
or other fixed food service operation and shall report at least daily to the
commissary or other fixed food service operation for cleaning supplies and
servicing; and
      (2)   The commissary or other fixed food service operation must be
properly licensed and operated in compliance with local, state, and/or federal
rules and regulations governing it.
   (E)   The Health Officer may impose additional requirements as may be
necessary to protect against public health hazards or nuisances.
   (F)   A permit issued at any time during a calendar year shall expire on
December 31 of that year and shall be renewed annually. A permit issued under
this subchapter shall not be sold, assigned, loaned, or transferred.
   (G)   Upon receipt of a completed application form along with all the
required information, any fees, fines, or penalties due and after the retail
food establishment has been inspected by the Health Officer and found to be in
compliance with this subchapter and any or all rules and regulations governing
it, shall a permit be granted.
(Prior Code, § 114.20) (Ord. 0-01-0004, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 112.021 FEES.
   (A)   A consultation fee will be assessed to each permit application made to
operated a retail food establishment or bed and breakfast establishment. The
fee shall be an amount as set by the city from time to time.
   (B)   There shall be an annual inspection fee to be determined by the square
footage of the food service operation.
      (1)   Less than 3,000 square feet: an amount as set by the city from time
to time; and
      (2)   Three thousand square feet and over: an amount as set by the city
from time to time.
   (C)   Thirty days after the annual inspection any unpaid annual inspection
fee shall be assessed an additional 25% penalty.
   (D)   No fee shall be required and no fee shall be paid for establishment
operated by religious, educational, or charitable organizations that are exempt
from the state’s gross income tax, I.C. 6-3-2. To qualify for this exemption
the following conditions shall be met:
      (1)   A photocopy of the not for profit tax exemption certificate from
the State Department of Revenue shall be provided along with the permit
application;
      (2)   Members of the organization will prepare the food that will be
sold;
      (3)   The events conducted by the organization under this section will
take place for not more than 30 days in a calendar year; and
      (4)   The name of each member who has prepared a food item is attached to
the container in which the food item has been placed.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit an exempted organization from waiving
the exemption and applying for a permit/license.
   (F)   All retail food establishments and bed and breakfast establishments
shall comply with at least the minimal requirements specified by 410 I.A.C. 7-
20, Retail Food Establishment Sanitation Requirements or 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, Bed
and Breakfast Establishments.
(Prior Code, § 114.21) (Ord. 0-01-0004, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 112.022 UNWHOLESOME, ADULTERATED, OR MISBRANDED FOOD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell through a retail food
establishment, temporary food establishment, mobile retail food establishment,
vending machine, or bed and breakfast establishment any food that is
unwholesome, adulterated, or misbranded as provided in the State Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, I.C. 16-42-1 through 4 and 410 I.A.C. 7-5.
   (A)   Samples of food may be taken and examined by the Health Officer as
often as may be necessary to determine freedom from contamination,
adulteration, or misbranding.
   (B)   Any dairy product, meat, meat product, seafood, poultry,
confectionery, bakery product, vegetable, fruit, or other perishable article:
      (1)   That is unsound;
      (2)   That contains any filthy, decomposed, or putrid substance; or
      (3)   That may be poisonous or deleterious healthy or otherwise unsafe;
constitutes a nuisance.
   (C)   Whenever the Health Officer finds, in any room, building, vehicle of
transportation, or other structure; or on any premises, perishable food or food
product which constitutes a nuisance under this section, the Health Officer
shall condemn or destroy the food or food product or in any other manner make
the food or food product unsaleable as human food.
(Prior Code, § 114.22) (Ord. 0-01-0004, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
10.999
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 16-42-2-6
§ 112.023 INSPECTION OF RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Every retail food establishment may be inspected at a frequency based
on its menu type according to the retail food establishment inspection report
state form 48669(R/4-00).
   (B)   If, during the inspection of any retail food establishment, the Health
Officer or his or her representative, discovers the violation of any of the
requirements of this subchapter, it shall issue a written narrative report
listing the violations and a time for correction to the operator or person in
charge and at a time of no more than 14 consecutive days within which the
operator or person in charge shall abate and remedy the violations. A copy of
the written report shall be filed with the records of the Food Inspection
Division, in the City Health Department.
   (C)   If, upon a follow-up inspection, the Health Officer or his or her
representative, finds that a retail food establishment, a person, or employee
is violating any of the provisions of this subchapter that are repeated from
the previous inspection, as noted on the inspection report, shall furnish
evidence of the violation to the prosecutor having jurisdiction in the city,
and he or she shall prosecute all persons violating the provisions of this
subchapter or the Health Officer and/or his or her representative may promptly
issue a written order to the permittee of the retail food establishment no
later than ten business days from the follow-up inspection to show cause why
the permit issued under the provision of §
112.020 should not be revoked and penalties assessed according to §
10.999.
   (D)   (1)   The Health Officer and/or his or her representative upon a
hearing, if the permittee should fail to show cause, may revoke the permit and
promptly give written notice of the action to the permittee.
      (2)   The Health Officer and/or his or her representative shall maintain
a permanent record of his or her proceedings filed in the office of the local
Health Department.
   (E)   Any permit issued under this subchapter may be summarily suspended by
the Health Officer and/or his or her representative without notice or hearing
for a period not to exceed 30 days, for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Insanitary or other conditions which, in the opinion of the Health
Officer and/or his or her representative, endanger the public’s health; and/or
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer or any authorized
representative in the performance of his or her duties, provided, however, that
upon written application from the permittee, served upon the Health Officer
within 15 days after the suspension, the Health Authority shall conduct a
hearing upon the matter after giving at least five days’ written notice of the
time, place, and purpose thereof, to the suspended permittee, provided,
further, that any suspension order shall be issued by the health authority in
writing and served upon the permittee by leaving a copy at his or her usual
place of business or by delivery of registered or certified mail.
   (F)   Any person whose permit has been suspended at any time within 90 days
may make application to the health authority for the reinstatement of the
permit. After 90 days, the permit shall be null and void, at which time a new
permit application must be submitted.
(Prior Code, § 114.23) (Ord. 0-01-0004, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
10.999
WHOLESALE ITINERANT PRODUCE DEALERS
§ 112.035 DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WHOLESALE ITINERANT PRODUCE DEALER. A person engaged in the business of
selling any fresh fruit, fresh vegetables, or garden produce, butter, eggs,
cheese, fish, meat, poultry, or any other or like article of food used or
intended for human consumption to retail trade for purposes of resale.
(Prior Code, § 114.35)
§ 112.036 IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLES.
   Every vehicle used by licenses under this subchapter in or about the
business of wholesale itinerant produce dealer in the city shall have the name
of the owner and his or her address plainly and distinctly painted in letters
and figures, at least two inches in height in a conspicuous place on the
outside of each side of every vehicle and the name and address shall be kept so
painted plainly and distinctly at all times while the vehicle is in use during
the continuance of the license period permitted by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.36) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 112.037 INSPECTIONS OF FOOD AND VEHICLES.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to require the City Health
Officer or his or her agents to make periodic inspections, as often as
necessary, of the food offered for sale and the vehicles used to see that there
has been compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.37)
§ 112.038 SALE OF UNWHOLESOME PRODUCTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee under this subchapter to have in his
or her possession with intent to sell or offer for sale any of the products
mentioned in this subchapter which are unclean, unwholesome, tainted, putrid,
decayed, adulterated, poisonous, infected, or in any manner rendered unsafe or
unwholesome for human consumption. The food products shall be deemed
unwholesome for human food if the same have been contaminated by flies or other
insects, vermin, dust, dirt, or other form of contamination; if they contain
any poison or deleterious or injurious ingredients in kinds and quantities to
render the articles injurious or detrimental to health; or if they contain the
whole or part of any uninspected or unpassed meat or meat products.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee under this subchapter to sell or offer
for sale any products contrary to law or rules or regulations of the Department
of Agriculture of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 114.38) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 112.039 HEALTH AND SANITATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who has an infectious or contagious disease, which may
be transmitted, or who is a disease carrier shall be engaged in the handling of
products named in this subchapter or in the handling of containers in which the
foods are packed. The Board of Health may require each person so engaged to
submit to proper examination for the purpose of determining his or her
condition in this respect and for this purpose may require a medical
certificate given by a reputable physician stating that the licensee under this
subchapter, employee, or agent is free from infectious or contagious disease
and is not a disease carrier.
      (2)   Form certificates shall be prepared and provided by the Board of
Health for physicians. The physician’s certificate must be approved by the
Board of Health.
      (3)   The City Controller may require the certificate of the Board of
Health prior to the issuance of a license under this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   All vehicles used by licensees under this subchapter shall be so
constructed that the portion of the vehicle which contains the products shall
be covered in a manner that no dust or dirt will settle on the products.
      (2)   The vehicles and all other equipment and facilities used shall be
kept in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be protected from dust, flies,
rodents, and other contaminations.
   (C)   The operators of any vehicles used in connection with any licensees
under this subchapter shall observe all the sanitary requirements prescribed
herein, and the requirements shall extend to the licensee and his or her
employees while engaged in and about the handling of the foods and food
products on their way to and from and while in vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 114.39) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 112.040 INSPECTION AND SEALING OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
   (A)   Before any licensee under this subchapter shall sell or offer to sell
any products in this city all scales or measuring devices used by him or her
must be inspected and sealed by the Inspector of Weights and Measures.
   (B)   Thereafter, the weights and measures must be inspected at least
annually.
(Prior Code, § 114.40) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 112.041 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
wholesale itinerant produce dealer without first having obtained a license to
do so as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.41)
   (B)   Application. Application for licenses under this subchapter shall be
made in conformity with the general licensing provisions of this code. In
addition to the information usually required, the applicant shall be required
to state the nature of the business and the equipment and facilities to be
used. A copy of each application shall be transmitted immediately to the Health
Officer.
(Prior Code, § 114.42)
   (C)   Fees. The annual fee for licenses provided under this subchapter shall
be an amount as set by the city from time to time. The entire annual fee must
be paid in advance and no deduction shall be allowed from the fee for the
licenses for any part of the year the license is not used.
(Prior Code, § 114.43)
   (D)   Issuance of license plates. Every wholesale itinerant produce dealer
licensed under the terms of this subchapter shall obtain from the City
Controller at the time of the issuance of a license hereunder, a license plate
or other suitable emblem for each vehicle to be used by him or her in or about
his or her business. The plate shall have marked upon it the words “East
Chicago Wholesale Itinerant Produce Dealer, number_____, year____” or
abbreviations of those words. These license plates shall be securely fastened
in plain view on the vehicle used by the licensees.
(Prior Code, § 114.44)
Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 113: LODGING AND RENTAL DWELLINGS
Section
Hotels
   
113.001   Definition
   
113.002   Licenses; required
   
113.003   Register
   
113.004   Manner of operation
   
113.005   Conduct of lodgers
   
113.006   Inspection
Rental Housing
   
113.020   Legislative purpose
   
113.021   Definitions
   
113.022   Registration
   
113.023   Certificate required
   
113.024   Certificate
   
113.025   Certificate revocation or suspension
   
113.026   Exemptions
 
   
113.999   Penalty
HOTELS
§ 113.001 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL. A place, inn, roominghouse, lodginghouse, or other public house or
place which provides lodging for hire, with or without board, for the transient
accommodation of the public, but shall not include hospitals or private
residences or private boarding or roominghouses occupied by families where
boarders or roomers are kept under a private arrangement or contract and are
not understood to be catering to the general public for patronage.
(Prior Code, § 119.01)
§ 113.002 LICENSES; REQUIRED.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
operation of a hotel, or other public house or place in the city without first
having obtained a license therefor from the City Controller as provided in this
code.
(Prior Code, § 119.02)
   (B)   Inspection of premises of applicant.
      (1)   No license shall be granted pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter until the City Health Officer shall make a careful examination of
the premises and shall approve them in writing and show that the premises are
in a clean and wholesome condition with all required, or necessary sanitary
appliances and facilities, with proper heating, water, ventilation, and garbage
facilities. The City Health Officer shall refuse to approve any premises which,
because of their unsanitary condition or from any other cause, are unfit for
human habitation or have insufficient plumbing facilities, or which may
otherwise endanger the public health.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner and Fire Inspector shall also rigidly
inspect the premises and make their recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 119.03)
   (C)   Fees. The annual license fee for each hotel, inn, roominghouse,
lodginghouse, or other public house or place in the city shall be as follows.
The following fees shall change at the discretion of the city.
 
Not more than ten rooms                        $20
More than ten rooms and not exceeding 25 rooms $50
More than 25 rooms and not exceeding 100 rooms $100
 
(Prior Code, § 119.04)
§ 113.003 REGISTER.
   (A)   Every operator of premises licensed under this chapter shall at all
times keep a book or register in which shall be entered and registered at the
time and in the proper order the name of every person becoming a guest of the
premises or an occupant of any room or portion of the premises excepting
employees of the hotel.
   (B)   The register shall be at all times open to the inspection of the
Mayor, the Health Officer or their designated agents.
(Prior Code, § 119.05) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.004 MANNER OF OPERATION.
   (A)   All hotels or other public houses or places, as defined in this
chapter, shall be conducted and operated in a clean and sanitary manner, shall
comply with the law and with this code, and shall, at all reasonable times, be
subject to inspection by the police, fire, and sanitary officers and Building
Commissioner of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the proprietor, operator, or any person in charge
of any business, to rent or hire any mom for any immoral purpose or to permit
any loud, boisterous, or disorderly conduct in or about a hotel or public house
or place.
(Prior Code, § 119.06) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.005 CONDUCT OF LODGERS.
   It is unlawful for any guest, lodger, or occupant of any hotel or other
public house or place to engage in any immoral conduct therein or to act in a
loud, boisterous, or disorderly manner or to disturb other guests or occupants.
(Prior Code, § 119.07) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.006 INSPECTION.
   The City Health Officer shall visit or cause to be visited, all hotels or
other public houses or places within the city as often as he or she shall deem
necessary to see that the provisions of this code pertaining thereto have been
complied with and to see that the premises and appliances used therein do not
endanger the public health.
(Prior Code, § 119.08) Penalty, see §
113.999
RENTAL HOUSING
§ 113.020 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared that there exist within the city rental housing units,
which by reason of their operation, use, or occupancy affect or are likely to
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare of the city. It is
further declared that the purpose of the ordinance codified in this chapter is
to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the city
by requiring the registration of all rental housing units which are or shall be
in existence in the city.
(Prior Code, § 123.01) (Ord. 0-01-0017, passed - -2001)
§ 113.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT. The abode of a family or a single unit providing complete,
independent facilities for the exclusive use and enjoyment of a family,
including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and
sanitation.
   GUEST. A person who is a temporary resident (less than 25% of the time) of a
dwelling unit and does not utilize the dwelling unit as a legal address for any
purpose.
   OCCUPANCY. Adhering to use standards and occupant load as required by local,
state, and federal statutes.
   OCCUPANT. A person occupying a dwelling unit, other than a guest, or using
the property as a legal address for any purpose.
   OWNER.
      (1)   The legal title holder or holders of the realty, except:
         (a)   If legal title is held by a state land trust, OWNER shall mean
the beneficial owner or owners of the trust; and
         (b)   If there is a purchaser or purchasers under a real estate
installment sales contract, OWNER shall mean the purchaser or purchasers.
      (2)   The singular shall include the plural throughout.
      (3)   For the purpose of § 123.03(A), the OWNER shall mean legal title
holder(s), beneficial owner(s), and contract purchaser(s) of the realty.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, company, limited liability company, or any group acting as a
unit, as well as a natural person. References in the masculine gender include
the feminine and the neuter, in the present tense includes the future, and the
singular includes the plural.
   RENTAL HOUSING. Any room or suite of rooms forming a single, separate
habitable unit to be used for living, or for living and sleeping; but not for
cooking and eating purposes.
   ROOMING UNIT. A room or suite of rooms forming a single, separate habitable
unit to be used for living, or for living and sleeping; but not for cooking and
eating purposes.
(Prior Code, § 123.02) (Ord. 0-01-0017, passed - -2001; Ord. 0-02-0016, passed
- -2002)
§ 113.022 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Required registration. Any owner of real property in the city, which
real property is used as rental housing, shall be required to register all such
properties on an annual basis, by January 31 of each year.
   (B)   Forms. The registration forms shall be available at the office of the
City Controller, and no registration or renewal will be accepted by that office
without a showing of full liability, fire, or other insurance equal to the
value of the property insured, Including the cost of demolition of the
property. Alternately, a bond or letter of credit from a federally insured
financial institution may be filed with the Office of the City Controller in an
amount equal to the value, of the property insured or an amount as set by the
city from time to time, whichever is greater, which will be used to cover the
cost of demolition if necessary.
   (C)   Annual rental registration and inspection fee.
      (1)   There shall be an annual rental registration and inspection fee
assessed for each “rental unit community” (as defined by I.C. 36-1-20-1.5),
building or parcel, equal to an amount as set by the city from time to time, or
the maximum permitted under state law, whichever is greater, due with the
registration form.
      (2)   Failure to register any or all real property utilized as rental
housing shall constitute a violation of this subchapter and shall subject the
owner to a fine not to exceed an amount as set by the city from time to time
per unit.
   (D)   Continuing violation. Each day of the violation shall constitute a
separate and actionable offense. Initial registration is required within 30
days of the effective date of this subchapter or within 30 days of obtaining
the title to rental housing real property.
   (E)   Late fee. There shall be a late fee in an amount as set by the city
from time to time assessed for each dwelling or rental/rooming unit not
registered by April 15, 2009, and April 15 of each year thereafter.
(Ord. 09-0020, passed 9-28-2009; Ord. 16-0013, passed 11-14-2016)
§ 113.023 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to let to another for occupancy
rental housing or a rental unit in any form, without a current, unrevoked city
certificate of rental registration, for the rental housing at the specific
location set out on the application.
   (B)   Each applicant for rental registration shall, in addition to all other
information required by the Chief of Inspections or this code section, contain
the name of the primary tenant for each rental unit, and an emergency contact
number for each listed tenant. Each application shall be updated, at no
additional cost, annually or upon a change in tenant. Falsification of an
application or rental registration shall be grounds for revocation or denial of
the certificate.
   (C)   Violations of this section may be enforced by Code Enforcement and
each day constitutes a separate and continuing offense and shall subject the
owner to a fine of not more than an amount as set by the city from time to time
for a first offense and another amount as set by the city from time to time for
a second or subsequent offenses.
(Ord. 09-0020, passed 9-28-2009) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.024 CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The certificate shall be for a period of one year, or until the
general expiration date of the then current certificate for the dwelling or
rooming unit whichever is sooner.
   (B)   For all dwelling or rooming units located in any area of the city, the
city shall issue a sticker stating the unit’s certification, date of
expiration, and permitted occupancy. The property owner and/or manager must
prominently and continuously display the sticker on the inside of the door to
the main entrance for each dwelling or rooming unit.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any party to remove the
sticker for the owner and/or manager to fail to continuously display the
sticker, as provided in division (B) above, in each dwelling or rooming unit
and shall subject the owner or tenant to a fine not to exceed an amount as set
by the city from time to time per dwelling or rooming unit. Each day of the
violation shall constitute a separate and actionable offense.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to permit occupancy by more
than the maximum allowed, and shall subject the owner or tenant to a fine not
to exceed an amount as set by the city from time to time per dwelling or
rooming unit. Each day of the violation shall constitute a separate and
actionable offense.
(Ord. 09-0020, passed 9-28-2009)
§ 113.025 CERTIFICATE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A certificate in force may be suspended or revoked, entirely or in part,
upon finding conditions or practices pertaining to the rental housing are in
continuing violation of the Building, Health, and/or Fire Codes of the city.
(Ord. 09-0020, passed 9-28-2009)
§ 113.026 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A dwelling or rooming unit occupied by the owner of the property shall
be exempt from the $10,00 annual fee, registration, and requirement of a
sticker to be displayed.
   (B)   A dwelling or rooming unit occupied by an immediate family member of
the owner of the property shall be exempt from the an amount as set by the city
from time to time annual fee, registration, and requirement of a sticker to be
displayed, provided that the immediate family member pays no rent.
(Ord. 09-0020, passed 9-28-2009)
§ 113.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Failure to register any or all real property as rental housing
shall constitute a violation of this subchapter and shall subject the owner to
a fine not to exceed an amount as set by the city from time to time per unit.
Each day of the violation shall constitute a separate and actionable offense.
Initial registration is required within 30 days of the effective date of this
subchapter or within 30 days of acquiring rental housing real property.
      (2)   Failure to continuously display or to remove the registration
sticker shall constitute a violation of this subchapter and shall subject the
owner or tenant to a fine not to exceed an amount as set by the city from time
to time per unit. Each day of the violation shall constitute a separate and
actionable offense. It shall be a defense for the owner to provide evidence of
his or her compliance with this requirement.
      (3)   Occupancy by more persons than the maximum allowed in a rental
dwelling or rooming unit shall constitute a violation of this subchapter and
shall subject the owner or tenant to a fine not to exceed an amount as set by
the city from time to time per unit. Each day of the violation shall constitute
a separate and actionable offense. It shall be a defense for the owner If the
owner provides a written lease which sets out the names and number of occupants
of a rental dwelling or rooming unit.
      (4)   The inspectors of the Fire Department and the City Code Enforcement
Officers are authorized to enforce all provisions regarding rental property
registration.
(Ord. 09-0020, passed 9-28-2009)
CHAPTER 114: CONSTRUCTION AND STRUCTURES
Section
Building Contractors
   
114.001   Definition
   
114.002   Building contractors Board of Examiners
   
114.003   Insurance required
   
114.004   Bond requirements
   
114.005   Licenses
   
114.006   Truck signs required
Building Movers
   
114.020   Business licenses
   
114.021   Bond
   
114.022   Permit required for each building
   
114.023   Compliance with permits
   
114.024   Routes
Catchbasin and Sewer Cleaners
   
114.035   Conveyance of removed substances; maintenance of equipment
   
114.036   Disposal of contents
   
114.037   Licenses
   
114.038   Certificates and emblems
Lumberyards and Storehouses
   
114.050   Licenses
   
114.051   Compliance with zoning regulations
   
114.052   Applicability of fire regulations
   
114.053   Storage near buildings
Sidewalk Contractors
   
114.065   Licenses
   
114.066   Bond
   
114.067   Property owners
Sign Erectors
   
114.080   Definition
   
114.081   Sign identification
   
114.082   Prohibited acts
   
114.083   Licenses
BUILDING CONTRACTORS
§ 114.001 DEFINITION.
   (A)   Building contractor defined. The term BUILDING CONTRACTOR, as used in
this chapter, means and includes any entity or person, as principal, who for a
fixed sum, price, fee, percentage, or other compensation shall wreck, build,
construct, alter, lay, repair, install, add to, or erect any building,
structure, pipeline, or facility above or below ground within the city or who
shall undertake to perform any of acts, and shall include the following:
      (1)   Any company; corporation including a limited liability company or
limited liability partnership; other business entity, organization, or
individual, who performs such work as a business; and/or
       (2)   Any company; corporation including a limited liability company or
limited liability partnership; other business entity, organization, or
individual who owns property including industrial, commercial, or agricultural
property that the entity or individual improves or develops.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following persons are exempted from the definition of
BUILDING CONTRACTOR:
      (1)   Persons or entities performing any of the work described in the
above definition when the total value of labor and material utilized for the
work does not exceed an amount as set by the city from time to time.
      (2)   The following exemptions shall apply only to natural persons, who
own residential properties within the city. The exemptions shall not apply to
corporate entities including limited liability companies, limited liability
partnerships or other partnerships involving corporate ownership, or any entity
primarily engaged in the business of construction, repair or demolition.
         (a)   Such business entities shall be required to acquire the
appropriate BUILDING CONTRACTOR license(s) before performing construction,
repair, wrecking or other contracting work within the city, or be subject to
penalty as provided in § 10.9999 of this code.
         (b)   Nothing in this code shall prevent an individual owner of
residential property from performing work on property owned by the individual,
provided that the work meets Building Code standards.
         (c)   A person, not a corporation, limited liability company or
limited liability partnership, performing the above described work on
residential property owned by the individual shall not be required to obtain a
contractor’s license in order to perform work on his or her own residential
property, provided that the work is performed in a workman like manner, and the
work meets the standard set by the city’s Building Code.
   (C)   Review and inspection. Divisions (B)(2)(a) and (B)(2)(b) above
notwithstanding, where a permit is required for construction, repair,
alteration, wrecking, laying, installation or similar work, such work shall be
subject to review and inspection by the City Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 115.001) (Ord. 13-0030, passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 15-0025, passed
12-14-2015)
§ 114.002 BUILDING CONTRACTORS BOARD OF EXAMINERS.
   (A)   There is created a Building Contractors Board of Examiners, appointed
by the Mayor, which shall consist of the Building Commissioner, one licensed
architect or licensed engineer, one licensed building contractor, one member of
the building trades union, two lay members and one Council member who is the
Chairperson of the Building and Zoning Committee of the Council.
   (B)   Four members of the seven Board members shall constitute a quorum.
   (C)   The Board shall adopt rules for the conduct of its business, the
consideration of license applications, the holding of examinations, oral and
written, the recommendations to the Mayor for suspension and revocation of
licenses, and all other matters pertaining to the proper administration of the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   The Board shall keep written records.
   (E)   (1)   The Board will be empowered to hear complaints from the general
public relative to any violations of the building regulations or this
subchapter by licensed contractors or other adverse conditions resulting from
work done by a licensed contractor.
      (2)   The Board may take necessary appropriate action as defined in this
subchapter or make necessary recommendations to other municipal departments,
agency, or boards of the city government to correct any adverse conditions
resulting from inferior, fraudulent, or unworkmanlike work done by any
contractor licensed by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 115.002)
§ 114.003 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   All contractors licensed under this subchapter shall be required to obtain
and to file with the City Controller a certificate, issued by a duly authorized
officer of a responsible insurance company authorized to do business in this
state, showing that the licensee has, in full force and effect:
   (A)   Worker’s compensation covering all employees on any work done within
the city;
   (B)   Public liability insurance in an amount as set by the city from time
to time for one accident;
   (C)   Property damage insurance in an amount as set by the city from time to
time; and
   (D)   Worker’s compensation, public liability, and property damage insurance
shall be kept in full force and effect during the entire licensed period and
certificates to that effect annually submitted to the City Controller.
(Prior Code, § 115.003) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.004 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   No contractor’s license or a renewal thereof shall be issued by
the City Controller until the applicant has made, executed, and delivered to
the City Controller his or her bond, with good and sufficient surety, in the
sum of an amount as set by the city from time to time, payable to the city. The
bond shall recite that the principals and sureties agree to indemnify and save
harmless the city against any and all claims and demands made by or against the
city arising out of the principal’s practice as a contractor.
      (2)   In addition, a second bond in the same amount and of the same kind
as above described shall be delivered to the City Controller for the use and
benefit of any persons who have suffered loss or damages as a result of any
work done or material furnished in violation of any of the laws of the city
covering work.
   (B)   The bonds shall be required to display the County Recorder’s stamp
affixed to the same and shall be resubmitted each year before renewal of the
license is granted.
   (C)   The city shall not provide any legal services in disputes between
contractors, and their clients and likewise the city shall not provide legal
services in any court action involving a surety bond.
(Prior Code, § 115.004) (Ord. 13-0030, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 114.005 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any company, corporation including a limited
liability company, any partnership, organization, or individual to engage in
the business of a BUILDING CONTRACTOR as defined by §
115.001 in the city without first obtaining the appropriate building
contractors license from the city.
      (2)   No firm, association, or corporation shall engage in building
contracting in the city unless at least one officer, agent or member of the
firm, association, or corporation has been licensed, according to the
provisions of this subchapter and has a license issued to it in the name of the
firm, association, or corporation as herein provided. The license shall
designate the holder of the license who shall be the applicant who has
successfully passed the examination herein required. The license shall be valid
and in effect only while the individual who passed the examination is still the
member, officer, or agent of the firm, association, or corporation.
      (3)   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prohibit the owner of a
residence from performing work on property owned by the individual, provided
that the owner assumes liability for such work, and the work is done in a
workmanlike manner and meets all applicable building standards, codes and laws.
A residential property owner excluded under this section acts as his or her own
Building Contractor. If the owner of the property chooses to hire a contractor,
such contractor shall be licensed by the city in as provided in this code.
   (B)   Application. Applications for licenses under this subchapter shall be
made to the City Controller in conformity with the general licensing provisions
of this code. Thereupon, the City Controller shall notify the Building
Contractors Board of Examiners.
(Prior Code, § 115.006)
   (C)   Examinations.
      (1)   The Building Contractors Board of Examiners shall conduct
examinations at reasonable intervals and test the qualifications of all
applicants. Written and oral examinations shall be required for all applicants.
      (2)   The Building Contractors Board of Examiners shall also inquire into
the good character, ability, and qualifications of the applicant. If the Board
is satisfied, it shall approve the application, certify it, and return it to
the City Controller. If the Board is not satisfied, it shall disapprove the
application. The examinations and grading shall be honest, fair, and free from
favoritism or unfair discrimination. The public interest shall be the paramount
consideration.
      (3)   All persons and companies operating as building contractors who
fail the examination given to them for the specific type of work they wish to
perform may retake a similar examination provided by the Building Commissioner,
or its designee.
      (4)   The number of reexaminations is limited to two, following the
initial failure. No contractor or company may take the same contractor
examination more than three times in a single calendar year.
      (5)   Nothing in this chapter prevents or limits a contractor or company
from taking a different examination in a different area of work to perform;
however, the total number of re-examinations in any area of work is limited to
two. Exceptions may be made at the discretion of the Building Commissioner upon
a showing of good cause.
   (D)   Fees; renewals.
      (1)   The annual fee for a building contractor’s license under this
subchapter shall be an amount as set by the city from time to time.
      (2)   The annual license fee for each annual renewal license for a
building contractor in good standing shall be an amount as set by the city from
time to time.
      (3)   Any persons obtaining a contractor’s license following the issuance
of a stop work order for failure to be licensed shall pay an additional amount
as set by the city from time to time in addition to the initial fee at the time
of receiving a license.
      (4)   (a)   To be entitled to the renewal fee, the licensee must, within
30 days after the expiration of his or her licenses, pay the entire renewal fee
and make application to the City Controller, as required by this chapter.
         (b)   Should the licensee fail to renew for a period of three years or
more, the licensee shall be subject to re-examinations. Exemptions may be made
at the discretion of the Building Commissioner upon showing of good cause.
      (5)   The full annual fee must be paid and there shall be no prorating.
      (6)   There shall be an examination fee in an amount as set by the city
from time to time assessed for each written examination conducted.
      (7)   An application for renewal shall be first approved and certified by
the Building Contractors Board of Examiners before a renewal is granted and
issued.
   (E)   Transferability. No license or renewal thereof granted under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be assignable or transferable.
(Prior Code, § 115.009)
   (F)   Suspension; revocation; denial of issuance or renewal.
      (1)   The Building Commissioner of the Building Contractors Board of
Examiners may recommend to the Mayor the suspension or revocation of any
license issued under this division when the building contractor shall have been
guilty of fraud, misrepresentation, negligence, or for violations of any of the
building or zoning provisions of the city.
      (2)   The Building Contractors Board of Examiners for the above or
reasons of equal gravity, may deny an application for a new or a renewal of a
building contractor’s license.
(Prior Code, § 115.010)
   (G)   Appeals. Any applicant for a license under this subchapter shall be
entitled to appeal the decision of the Building Contractors Board of Examiners
on any application for examination to the Board of Public Works and Safety,
which body shall have the right to alter, amend, or reverse the decision of the
Board and to order a new examination, and which action upon the part of the
Board of Public Safety shall be final in the matter.
(Prior Code, § 115.011)
(Ord. 13-0030, passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 15-0025, passed 12-14-2015) Penalty, see
§
10.999
§ 114.006 TRUCK SIGNS REQUIRED.
   All company vehicles (trucks and the like) must have the company’s name,
address, and telephone number in letters at least one and one-half inches high
painted or decaled on both doors in contrasting colors.
(Ord. 13-0030, passed 10-14-2013) Penalty, see §
10.999
BUILDING MOVERS
§ 114.020 BUSINESS LICENSES.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of moving
any building any place in the city or over or onto or along any public street,
sidewalk, or alley in the city without first having obtained a building mover’s
license.
      (2)   No person except a licensed building mover shall move or assist in
moving any building any place in the city or over, onto, or along any public
street, sidewalk, or alley in the city.
(Prior Code, § 115.025)
   (B)   Application. An application for a license under this subchapter shall
be made in conformity with the general licensing provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 115.026)
   (C)   Fee. The annual license fee of a building mover shall be an amount as
set by the city from time to time payable in advance. The full annual fee must
be paid.
(Prior Code, § 115.027)
   (D)   Nontransferable. The business issued under this subchapter shall not
be transferable to any other person and no person other than the licensee named
shall act under the license.
(Prior Code, § 115.028)
Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.021 BOND.
   (A)   Before a license for a building mover shall be issued, the applicant
shall execute a proper surety bond to the city in the sum of an amount as set
by the city from time to time conditioned for the faithful observance and
performance of all the provisions of this code and of law relating to or
concerning the moving of buildings within the city. The bond shall be
conditioned further, to pay all damages which may occur to the city or to any
public way or any pole, wire, cable, electrical appliance, trees, or shrubbery
owned or under the control or jurisdiction of the city or to other property of
any person or to any person in the city caused by or arising out of any act or
thing done by the licensed building mover in and about the moving or raising of
any building in the city or which shall be done by any licensed building mover
under and by virtue of the authority given in this subchapter and code and
further conditioned for the strict compliance with the terms of any permit
issued by the Board of Public Safety including the route to be taken, the limit
of time in which to make the removal and other conditions of the permits.
   (B)   The applicant shall make satisfactory proof to the City Controller
that he or she is fully competent, is a responsible person, carries adequate
insurance to protect his or her employees and others and possesses the
necessary experience and the necessary or proper equipment to engage in the
business of a building mover.
(Prior Code, § 115.029) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.022 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR EACH BUILDING.
   (A)   No person shall move any building from one place to another within the
city or over, onto, or along any street, sidewalk, or alley in the city without
applying for, in writing, and receiving a special written permit to do so from
the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   The application shall set forth:
      (1)   Name, license number, and the date of building mover’s license;
      (2)   A description, including dimensions of the building sought to be
moved;
      (3)   The present location and the place to which it is sought be
removed;
      (4)   A complete description of the route over which it is desired to
take the building in removing it to its destination;
      (5)   The time required for the moving; and
      (6)   Whether any wires or cables will be passed.
   (C)   The Board of Public Works and Safety may request an investigation to
consider the request for a permit. The permittee shall serve the notice
provided in
Chapter 50 of this code when requested by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (D)   A permit fee in an amount as set by the city from time to time shall
be advanced at the time the application for a permit is filed with the Board.
This fee is to cover the extra use of streets, sidewalks, or other public
property of the city including cost of the inspection.
   (E)   The Board of Public Safety may grant a permit for the moving of
buildings as herein provided and shall have authority to refuse any permit
where in its opinion the interruption of traffic or damage which might be done
to trees or other public or private property or hazard connected with the
project, would not warrant the granting of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 115.030) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.023 COMPLIANCE WITH PERMITS.
   (A)   No building mover shall remove or cause to be moved or removed, any
building in the city without first having obtained the permit required in this
subchapter. No building mover shall keep a building on the street longer than
the permit calls for or do any other prohibited acts in violation of the
permit.
   (B)   In exceptional cases, the Board of Public Works and Safety may require
additional surety bonds, with surety to be approved by the Board, in additional
amounts as the Board may prescribe, conditioned upon the strict compliance with
the terms of the permit as to route to be taken, the limit of time in which to
effect the removal, and to pay to the city as liquidated damages, in an amount
not exceeding an amount as set by the city from time to time, the exact amount
to be fixed by the Board, for each and every day’s delay in completing the
removal or in repairing any damages to public improvements or property or in
clearing public highways of all debris thereby occasioned or in obstructing
traffic.
   (C)   The Building Commissioner shall thoroughly examine the building and
refer the papers relating to the removal to the Board of Public Works and
Safety, together with his or her opinion endorsed in writing upon the
application as to whether the proposed removal can be made without serious
injury to person or property.
(Prior Code, § 115.031) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.024 ROUTES.
   No building shall be moved over any other street or routes than specified in
the permit.
(Prior Code, § 115.032) Penalty, see §
10.999
CATCHBASIN AND SEWER CLEANERS
§ 114.035 CONVEYANCE OF REMOVED SUBSTANCES; MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT.
   All substances taken from catchbasins or sewers shall be conveyed to the
place of disposal in closely covered watertight iron or steel vehicle bodies or
receptacles, and it is unlawful for any person to collect or remove the
materials from catchbasins or sewers in wooden receptacles or to haul them in
wooden vehicle bodies. The vehicles, receptacles, and utensils used in
connection with the business shall be kept in a clean condition when not in
use.
(Prior Code, § 115.045) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.036 DISPOSAL OF CONTENTS.
   (A)   The contents taken from catchbasins and sewers in cleaning and
repairing the same shall not be permitted to remain in any receptacle or
vehicle used to transport and remove the contents and the same shall be
disposed of at a place designated by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (B)   No receptacle or vehicle containing such material shall be permitted
to be stored overnight in any building, barn, shed, yard, or place on public or
private property. The storing overnight of any of the materials taken from
catchbasins and sewers upon any premises within the limits of the city shall be
deemed and is declared to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 115.046) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.037 LICENSES.
   (A)   When required. It is unlawful for any person within the city to engage
in the business of cleaning, collecting, or transporting the contents of
catchbasins or sewers or kindred refuse by vehicle or otherwise, or in any
manner to engage in the business of cleaning catchbasins or sewers without
first obtaining a license to do so; provided, that plumbers or sewer builders
licensed by this code who may clean catchbasins or sewers as an incident to the
repair of the catchbasins or sewers shall not be required to obtain the sewer
cleaners’ license.
(Prior Code, § 115.047)
   (B)   Application. Application for a license under this subchapter shall be
made with the City Controller in conformity with the general licensing
provisions of this code. The application shall be approved by the Board of
Public Works and Safety before the license shall be issued. The Board shall
satisfy itself concerning the qualifications of the applicant before granting
the license.
(Prior Code, § 115.048)
   (C)   Bond.
      (1)   Before any person shall be granted a license under this subchapter,
he or she shall furnish a surety bond payable to the city in the penal sum of
an amount as set by the city from time to time, indemnifying the city against
any loss which might occur to the catchbasins, sewers, streets, sidewalks, or
other public property and saving harmless the city against the city arising
from the performance of any work of the licensee.
      (2)   This surety bond shall be further made for the use and benefit of
the owner or any other party in interest in the property where the licensee has
operated, against loss or damage which may arise by reason of the work done or
materials changed in violation of the requirements of law or of this code.
      (3)   This surety bond shall require the approval of the Board of Public
Works and Safety and the City Controller.
(Prior Code, § 115.049)
   (D)   Fee. The annual fee for a license under this subchapter shall be the
sum of an amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 115.050)
§ 114.038 CERTIFICATES AND EMBLEMS.
   Every person licensed to engage in the business of cleaning catchbasins and
sewers shall procure from the City Controller, at the time of the issuance of
the license, a certificate and a metal plate or other suitable emblem. The
plate or emblem shall be conspicuously displayed on any vehicle or apparatus
used by the licensee in the business.
(Prior Code, § 115.051) Penalty, see §
10.999
LUMBERYARDS AND STOREHOUSES
§ 114.050 LICENSES.
   (A)   When required.
      (1)   No person shall conduct or operate a lumber yard or lumber
storehouse without first having obtained a license as required by this
subchapter.
      (2)   Included under the provisions of this subchapter requiring
licenses, but not limited hereby, shall be all lumber yards, lumber
storehouses, and other places where new, used, finished, or unfinished lumber,
timber, wood except fire wood, wooden boxes, wooden barrels, veneers, ply
woods, flex woods, and similar materials in excess of 3,000 board feet are
kept, placed, stored, or piled for sale or use, other than lumber used in the
repair, erection, or construction of buildings or improvements incident to the
land on the premises where so kept, placed, stored, or piled on the premises
immediately adjacent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 115.065)
   (B)   Application. An application for license under this subchapter shall be
made in conformity with the general license requirements of
Chapter 110. The Building Commissioner and the Fire Inspector in charge of the
Bureau of Fire Prevention shall investigate the application and the matters and
things therein stated to determine whether the premises comply with the
provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 115.066)
   (C)   Fees. The annual license fee for each lumber yard or lumber storehouse
or each separate place, location, or premises where lumber or any of the wooden
articles mentioned in division (A) above are kept, placed, stored, or piled
shall be an amount as set by the city from time to time for each separate
location, place, or premises; provided, that where lumber, veneers, ply woods,
flex woods, and similar materials are kept, placed, stored, or piled by the
owner thereof not for resale as such, but as incidental to manufacturing
business and for the purpose of fabrication or manufacture into manufactured
articles or parts thereof, the annual license fee shall be an amount as set by
the city from time to time for each separate location, place, or premises. No
license shall be issued except upon payment of the full annual license fee.
(Prior Code, § 115.067)
Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.051 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful to conduct or operate any lumber yard or lumber storehouse or
to pile or store lumber or any or the wooden articles mentioned in §
115.050(A) in any lot or plot of ground in the city without first complying
with the provisions of the zoning regulations of this code and by also
obtaining the written permission of the Building Commissioner and Fire
Inspector, subject to approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 115.068) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.052 APPLICABILITY OF FIRE REGULATIONS.
   Any person who shall conduct or operate a lumber yard or lumber storehouse
or who shall store or pile lumber or any of the wooden articles mentioned in §
114.050(A) shall be subject to all applicable fire regulations of this code and
law and to all penalties for violations.
(Prior Code, § 115.069) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.053 STORAGE NEAR BUILDINGS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to pile either new or old lumber, wooden
boxes, wooden barrels, or other materials of similar combustible nature for the
purpose of selling, storing, manufacturing, drying, or seasoning within 50 feet
of any building or within 25 feet of any fireproof or brick building, unless
the roof of the brick building shall be of fireproof construction and all
exposed windows, doors, and other openings in both brick or fireproof buildings
are fitted and protected with approved fire resisting wired glass and metal
sash and frames or all windows and other openings are equipped with metal-clad
shutters or doors.
   (B)   No lumber, boxes, or barrels shall be piled in excess of 20 feet in
height. If the area covered is in excess of 1,000 square feet, it shall be
divided into areas of 1,000 square feet or less by aisles or passageways at
least 48 inches wide.
(Prior Code, § 115.070) Penalty, see §
10.999
SIDEWALK CONTRACTORS
§ 114.065 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
sidewalk contractor or in the business of laying any concrete walk or building
or setting any curbing in the streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds of
the city without first having obtained a license therefor as provided in this
code.
(Prior Code, § 115.085)
   (B)   Fees. The annual license fee for a sidewalk contractor shall be an
amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 115.086)
Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.066 BOND.
   All applicants for a license under this subchapter shall file with the Board
of Public Works and Safety a bond in the penal sum of an amount as set by the
city from time to time with good and sufficient surety to be approved by the
Board and conditioned that the work will be according to plans and
specifications, the rules and regulations of the Board, and all requirements of
this code and ordinances of the city, which bond shall inure to the benefit of
both the city and the person for whom the work is being done, and shall
indemnify and save the city harmless from any liability arising out of the
work.
(Prior Code, § 115.087) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.067 PROPERTY OWNERS.
   This subchapter shall not prohibit the owners of any property, who are
otherwise competent, from laying or repairing a sidewalk or driveway abutting
their own property.
(Prior Code, § 115.088)
SIGN ERECTORS
§ 114.080 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIGN ERECTORS. Any person who is licensed by this chapter to erect, place,
paint, paste, print, stamp, or raise signs in the city.
(Prior Code, § 127.01)
§ 114.081 SIGN IDENTIFICATION.
   All signs shall be plainly marked with the licensed sign erector’s name.
(Prior Code, § 127.02) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.082 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to place, erect, paint, paste, print,
stamp, raise, use, or display a sign in any place in the city where it is
prohibited.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to permit any sign or cause it to be
placed any place in the city until the permit fees required by this chapter
have been paid.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any sign erector to place any sign containing
pictures, illustrations, or words of an obscene or immoral character.
(Prior Code, § 127.03) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 114.083 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. No person shall erect or maintain signs or engage in the
erection and maintenance of signs within the city without first having procured
a license to do so. No person shall cause or permit any sign to be erected,
placed, painted, pasted, printed, stamped, or raised unless it has been so done
by a person licensed under the provisions of this chapter, and the permit
required by this chapter has been properly obtained from the city as provided
in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 127.04)
   (B)   Application. Applications for a sign erector’s license shall be made
in conformity with the general licensing provisions of this code. The applicant
and application must be approved by the Building Commissioner before they can
be considered by the City Controller.
(Prior Code, § 127.05)
   (C)   Qualifications of applicants. All licensees under this chapter must be
persons with sufficient knowledge, experience, and equipment to satisfy the
Building Commissioner as to the applicant’s ability to erect signs in a safe
and substantial manner in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 127.06)
   (D)   Fees; duration; transferability. The annual license fee under the
provisions of this chapter shall be $50. The fee for the full year must be paid
in advance. No license shall be granted for a period less than one year, and
the license shall be nontransferable.
(Prior Code, § 127.07)
   (E)   Bond. Every person applying for a license under this chapter as a sign
erector in the city shall, before receiving a license, execute a surety bond
payable to the city in the penal sum of $5,000, to indemnify, save, and keep
harmless the city from any and all costs, damages, and expenses whatsoever
which may be suffered by the city or which the city may be put to or which may
accrue against the city by charging to or recovering from the city from or by
reason of the granting of permission to erect the signs or by reason of any
acts or things done under or by authority or permission granted by the city to
erect the signs in the city or by reason of negligence, failure, or refusal of
any person to comply with the provisions of this chapter applicable to signs.
The bond shall provide that the licensee will conform to all provisions of this
chapter. The bond shall also indemnify the public against loss or damage to
property and injury or death of persons by reason of the negligence of the
licensee. The bond must be kept in full force during all times in which the
person shall engage in the erection and maintenance of signs within the city.
(Prior Code, § 127.08)
Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 115: VEHICLE-RELATED BUSINESSES AND SERVICES
Section
Gasoline Service Stations
   
115.001   License; fee; issuance requirements
   
115.002   Service station defined; private storage and underground storage
   
115.003   Motor fuel dispensing requirements
   
115.004   Maintenance and operation; compliance required
   
115.005   Flammable liquid classes; dispensing; flash point determination
   
115.006   Basements prohibited; flooring requirements
   
115.007   Heating systems
   
115.008   Greasing pits
   
115.009   Outdoor provisions; maintenance requirements
   
115.010   Restrooms
   
115.011   Pump area prohibitions
   
115.012   Vehicle dismantling enclosure requirements
   
115.013   Parts storage and enclosure requirements
   
115.014   Sidewalk or parkway obstruction prohibited
   
115.015   Inspections prior to license issuance
   
115.016   Vehicle repair; enclosure requirements
   
115.017   Fire extinguisher
   
115.018   Advertisement and/or sale of used vehicles prohibited
   
115.019   Periodic inspections; violations
   
115.020   Compliance with subchapter
Motor Vehicle Dealers
   
115.035   Automobile titles
   
115.036   Conduct of employees
   
115.037   Investigation
   
115.038   Records; cooperation with police
   
115.039   Licenses
Taxicabs
   
115.050   Definitions
   
115.051   Declaration of policy
   
115.052   Determination of public convenience and necessity
   
115.053   Permit
   
115.054   Public stands
   
115.055   Fares
   
115.056   Taximeters
   
115.057   Driver identification
   
115.058   Persons permitted in front seat
   
115.059   Only paid persons allowed
   
115.060   Rules and regulations prerequisite to licensing
   
115.061   Insurance and bond required
   
115.062   Corporations and partnership
 
   
115.999   Penalty
GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS
§ 115.001 LICENSE; FEE; ISSUANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful to conduct or operate a service station in the city without
first having obtained a license therefor. The annual fee for a license shall be
an amount as set by the city from time to time for stations where not more than
three pumps are maintained and another amount as set by the city from time to
time for each additional pump over three maintained. No license shall be issued
unless the location and equipment to be used fully comply with the ordinances
of the city.
(Prior Code, § 118.01) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.002 SERVICE STATION DEFINED; PRIVATE STORAGE AND UNDERGROUND STORAGE.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SERVICE STATION. A place of business where gasoline or any highly
volatile fuels for motor vehicles or internal combustion engines are sold or
offered for sale or retail and dispensed into the fuel tanks of motor vehicles.
   (B)   This definition shall include also a private storage tank and
dispensing of products for the same purposes as those served by a service
station, whether the storage is maintained for the use or benefit of the owner,
lessee, agents, or employees of either, or of any others.
   (C)   The requirements covering service stations shall govern underground
storage maintained at general storage plants and places other than service
stations, so far as applicable.
(Prior Code, § 118.02) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977)
§ 115.003 MOTOR FUEL DISPENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   No motor fuel shall be dispensed at any service station except into the fuel
tank of motor vehicles, when the tanks are connected with the carburetor system
of vehicles; provided, however, that individual sales up to five gallons may be
made in metal receptacles when painted red and so labeled as for gasoline, the
individual sales shall be limited to five gallons to any one person in any one
instance.
(Prior Code, § 118.03) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.004 MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Any person, firm, or corporation maintaining or operating any storage tank
or gasoline for the use of automobiles for the owner, lessees, employees, or
agents of the person, firm, or corporation shall comply with all the provisions
of this subchapter other than the requirement for the payment of a fee.
(Prior Code, § 118.04) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.005 FLAMMABLE LIQUID CLASSES; DISPENSING; FLASH POINT DETERMINATION.
   Class I and II flammable liquids shall be transferred from underground tanks
by means of fixed pumps so designed and equipped as to allow control of the
flow and to prevent leakage or accidental discharge. Supplemental means shall
be provided outside of the dispensing device whereby the source of power may be
readily disconnected in the event of fire or other accident.
   (A)   (1)   Three classes. For the purpose of this subchapter, flammable
liquids are divided into three classes, according to flash point at or below
25°F (-4°C) Closed Cup tester.
         (a)   Class II. Liquids with a flash point above that for Class I and
at or below 70°F (21°C) Closed Cup tester.
         (b)   Class III. Liquids with a flash point above that for Class II
and at or below 200°F (93-1/3°C) Closed Cup tester.
      (2)   Flash point. The flash point shall be determined with Elliot, Abel,
Abel Pensky, or the Tag Closed Cup tester, but the Tag Closed Cup tester
(standardized by the United States Bureau of Standards) shall be authoritative
in case of dispute. All tests shall be made in accordance with the methods
adopted by the American Society for Testing Materials International (ASTM
International).
      (3)   Examples of flammable liquids. Representative examples for the
classes of flammable liquids are:
         (a)   Class I:
            1.   Ether;
            2.   Carbon bisuiphide;
            3.   Gasoline;
            4.   Benzol;
            5.   Naptha;
            6.   Acetone; and
            7.   Collodion.
         (b)   Class II:
            1.   Alcohol;
            2.   Amyl acetate;
            3.   Toluol;
            4.   Ethyl acetate; and
            5.   Methyl alcohol.
         (c)   Class III:
            1.   Kerosene;
            2.   Amyl alcohol;
            3.   Turpentine; and
            4.   Fuel oil.
   (B)   No pumps shall be located within a building.
(Prior Code, § 118.05) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.006 BASEMENTS PROHIBITED; FLOORING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No basement shall be permitted under any service station building.
   (B)   Floor level shall be above grade so as to prevent the flow of liquids
or vapors into building.
   (C)   Floors shall be concrete.
(Prior Code, § 118.06) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.007 HEATING SYSTEMS.
   Heating systems in service stations that have room or stalls for greasing or
servicing motor vehicles shall be of a type that will preclude the likelihood
of gasoline reaching the heaters.
(Prior Code, § 118.07) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.008 GREASING PITS.
   Every greasing pit installed in a building or enclosed by three or more
walls, shall be ventilated by a vent duct not less than six inches in diameter,
or equivalent cross-sectional area of a noncircular duct if used.
(Prior Code, § 118.08) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.009 OUTDOOR PROVISIONS; MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every gasoline service station establishment containing any outdoor
provisions (for parking vehicles) to which the public is invited or which the
public is permitted to use, shall be equipped with trash containers in
compliance with the regulations hereof.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the person charged with or maintaining the
establishment to see that it complies with the provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 118.09) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.010 RESTROOMS.
   All automobile service stations must provide clean sanitary restrooms for
public use.
(Prior Code, § 118.10) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.011 PUMP AREA PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful for any service station to use the pump area of the station
as a depository for abandoned vehicles or as a vehicle parking area.
(Prior Code, § 118.11) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.012 VEHICLE DISMANTLING ENCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person in charge or control of any automobile service
station, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, to allow the
dismantling, wrecking, stripping, discarding, or junking of vehicles on the
property except that the vehicle is in an enclosed building.
(Prior Code, § 118.12) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.013 PARTS STORAGE AND ENCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person in charge or control of any automobile service
station, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise to allow the
storage of parts from any dismantled, wrecked, stripped, or junked vehicle
itself on the property except in an enclosed building.
(Prior Code, § 118.13) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.014 SIDEWALK OR PARKWAY OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person in charge or control of any automobile service
station to place or permit to be placed any cars or obstruction of any kind
over any sidewalks or parkways surrounding the station so as to interfere with
the convenient use of the same by the public.
(Prior Code, § 118.14) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.015 INSPECTIONS PRIOR TO LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   The entire premises of all automobile service stations shall be inspected
for cleanliness, health hazards, safety, and welfare of the public by the
Health Department and Division of Inspection before issuance of a license.
(Prior Code, § 118.15) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.016 VEHICLE REPAIR; ENCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person in charge or control of any automobile service
station, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise to repair or
permit the repairing of vehicles on the premises except in an enclosed
building; except for emergencies such as charging batteries and repairing flat
tires.
(Prior Code, § 118.16) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.017 FIRE EXTINGUISHER.
   Each service station shall be equipped with at least one chemical fire
extinguisher suitable for oil or gasoline fire.
(Prior Code, § 118.17) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.018 ADVERTISEMENT AND/OR SALE OF USED VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person in charge or control of any automobile service
station, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise to use any
part of the premises for the advertisement and/or sale of used cars.
(Prior Code, § 118.18) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.019 PERIODIC INSPECTIONS; VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Department and/or Department of
Inspection or other official designated by the Mayor to inspect or cause to be
inspected every establishment licensed under the ordinance codified in this
subchapter periodically. Any violation under the terms of this subchapter shall
be reported to the police and a sworn complaint filed to be prosecuted in the
manner prescribed for violations of city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 118.19) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.020 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBCHAPTER.
   All gasoline service stations must be in full compliance with this
subchapter as of January 1, 1978 and thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 118.20) (Ord. 3165, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
115.999
MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS
§ 115.035 AUTOMOBILE TITLES.
   Every licensee shall have a title for every automobile displayed on a lot
customarily used for the sale of automobiles, and the title shall be produced
upon demand by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 118.35) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.036 CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES.
   Every licensee under this subchapter shall be held strictly responsible for
the conduct of his or her employees in so far as the sales or purchases of
automobiles or motor vehicles are concerned. It shall be the licensee’s duty to
see that no automobiles or motor vehicles are sold or purchased by his or her
agents or any person in and upon his or her premises other than the licensee’s
own automobiles or motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 118.36) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.037 INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to designate some member of his
or her force to make an investigation of any automobile dealer whom he or she
might have reason to believe is not conforming to this subchapter or to any
other ordinance or law pertaining to the possession and sale of automobiles. It
shall be the duty of the designated police officer to make a monthly report to
the Board of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 118.37)
§ 115.038 RECORDS; COOPERATION WITH POLICE.
   Each licensee shall keep any and all reasonable records required by the
Police Department and shall cooperate with the Police Department in every
respect.
(Prior Code, § 118.38) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.039 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in, carry on,
maintain, or conduct the business of buying, selling, or dealing in motor
vehicles in the city unless and until a license to so engage in business shall
have been granted.
(Prior Code, § 118.39)
   (B)   Applications; contents. Any person desiring to obtain a license to
conduct, maintain, carry on, or engage in the business of buying, selling, or
dealing in motor vehicles shall make application in writing on a form
prescribed by the City Controller to the Controller. The application must be
filed at least 30 days before the hearing of the application. When issued, the
license shall show the following:
      (1)   Whether applicant is a person, firm, partnership, association, or
corporation;
      (2)   The names and post office addresses of all officers or members of
the corporation, partnership, firm, or association;
      (3)   The street number of the building or location at which the
applicant intends to carry on, maintain, conduct, or engage in business; and
      (4)   Other information as the City Controller shall request.
(Prior Code, § 118.40)
   (C)   Applications; denial; reconsideration. If any license application
under this subchapter is declined or a license revoked, no application shall be
again considered for a period of less than six months.
(Prior Code, § 118.41)
   (D)   Independent consideration for each location. Each application for a
license under this subchapter shall be considered independently by the City
Controller and the issuance of a license to engage in business at one location
in no way entitles the applicant to a license for a second location unless the
same is duly approved by the Controller.
(Prior Code, § 118.42)
   (E)   Fees. Each applicant filed under this subchapter shall be accompanied
by a fee of an amount as set by the city from time to time for the first
location and a fee of another amount as set by the city from time to time for
each additional location. The entire fee shall be refunded in the event the
application is declined.
(Prior Code, § 118.43)
   (F)   Qualifications and bond of applicant. No application for a license
under this subchapter from any person shall be considered until the person has
become bona fide residents of the state, or has posted a surety bond
satisfactory to the City Controller of not less than an amount as set by the
city from time to time, which shall be used to satisfy any judgment obtained
against the licensee upon grounds of fraudulent transactions in the motor
vehicle business.
(Prior Code, § 118.44)
   (G)   Issuance; display. The City Controller shall, for cause, refuse to
authorize a license under this subchapter or shall, if there is no cause for
acting otherwise, issue a certificate of license to the applicant, which
certificate shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in his or her place of
business.
(Prior Code, § 118.45)
   (H)   Transfer of locations. If the licensee shall, at any time, change the
location of his or her place of business, he or she shall again file with the
City Controller a new application for a license to do business in the location,
which shall be handled as outlined in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 118.46)
   (I)   Expiration. All licenses shall be so issued as to expire on the
December 31 of each year and, if no application for renewal has been filed with
the City Controller by the December 31 for the following year, the licensee’s
right and license to sell automobiles shall become null and void.
(Prior Code, § 118.47)
   (J)   Grounds for revocation. No licensee under this subchapter shall permit
another person to operate a business on a location for which the licensee has a
license and, if the licensee shall permit the abuse of his or her license, the
license shall be revoked ipso facto.
(Prior Code, § 118.48)
TAXICABS
§ 115.050 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB. A motor vehicle that:
      (1)   Is designed and constructed to accommodate and transport not more
than six passengers in addition to the driver;
      (2)   Does not operate over any definite and designated routes within the
corporate boundaries of the city; and
      (3)   Transports passengers to the destination designated by the
passengers at the time of their transportation.
   TAXIMETER. Any instrument or fare-registering device attached to a taxicab
designed and intended to mechanically register the distance traveled or waiting
time and to indicate upon the record, by figures, the fare to be charged in
dollars and cents.
(Prior Code, § 128.01) (Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994)
§ 115.051 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   Pursuant to the city’s statutory authority to regulate the services offered
by persons who hold out for public hire the use of vehicles, including the
power to fix the price to be charged for that service, it is declared to be the
policy of the Common Council:
   (A)   To provide for the regulation of taxicabs in the city;
   (B)   To promote safe, adequate, economical, and efficient service and to
foster a sound economic condition in transportation in the city;
   (C)   To establish and maintain reasonable charges for transportation
services; and
   (D)   To make the highways safe for the general public:
      (1)   The wear of the highways may be reduced;
      (2)   The inconvenience to other users of the highways may be minimized;
      (3)   The minimum hindrance and stoppage to other users of the highway
compatible with the needs of the public for adequate transportation service may
be effected;
      (4)   The highways may be safeguarded from improper or unnecessary usage;
      (5)   The operation by irresponsible persons or any other operation
threatening the safety of the public or detrimental to the general welfare be
prevented; and
      (6)   The congestion of traffic on the highway be minimized and that the
public highways serve the best interest of the general public.
(Prior Code, § 128.02) (Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994)
§ 115.052 DETERMINATION OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   The Common Council determines and declares that the public convenience and
necessity requires the permitting of a single taxicab service, consisting of no
fewer than four taxicabs, to operate within the city. The permit, as issued by
the Common Council, signed by the presiding officer and attested by the City
Clerk, shall remain in effect until canceled by resolution adopted by the
Common Council.
(Prior Code, § 128.03) (Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994)
§ 115.053 PERMIT.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab or a
taxicab service or business within the city unless that person or business is
the holder of the taxicab service permit issued as provided in this chapter,
provided, however, that taxicabs licensed by other cities may be driven into
and out of this city when the taxicab and driver are properly licensed in the
city of origin.
(Prior Code, § 128.04)
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   The prospective taxicab service permittee shall file with the
Common Council his, her, or its application for a permit upon the forms to be
supplied by the Council Clerk. The application shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   If the applicant is a partnership, a copy of the partnership
agreement shall be filed, together with the full names and address of all the
partners;
         (c)   If the application is a corporation, a copy of the articles of
incorporation shall be filed, and the application shall show the names and
addresses of all the officers and directors of the corporation;
         (d)   The number of taxicabs which will be covered by the permit;
         (e)   A complete description of each taxicab, including the make, year
of manufacture, engine number, serial number, and color, and the applicant
shall designate the color to be used;
         (f)   Any other information the Common Council may deem necessary to
show compliance with this chapter;
         (g)   Attached to or accompanying the application shall be an
insurance policy or bond, as required in this chapter, and cash or check for a
basic license fee or individual taxicab fees, as provided in this chapter; and
         (h)   The application shall be signed by the owner of the taxicab
company and the application shall be sworn to by the applicant.
      (2)   All applications for the taxicab service permit shall be made and
received by the Common Council no later than February 28, 1994.
(Prior Code, § 128.05)
   (C)   Fees. A basic annual permit fee of $150 per year shall be paid for
each taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 128.06)
   (D)   General procedures for determination. Within 30 days of the close of
permit applications, the Common Council, after a public hearing, shall by
resolution, award and designate the taxicab service permittee. In making this
determination, the Council shall take into consideration the qualifications of
the applicant, including financial responsibility, experience in the taxicab
business, age and quality of taxicabs, experience and reliability of drivers,
the color scheme to be used by the applicant, and any other factors that the
Common Council shall deem desirable or necessary.
(Prior Code, § 128.07)
   (E)   Issuance of licence; nontransferability of license plates. Upon
issuance of the taxicab service permit by the Common Council and after
providing proof of insurance and payment of the license fee, as provided
herein, the City Controller shall issue to the permittee a license authorizing
the permittee to operate each taxicab upon the streets and alleys of this city.
The individual license plates shall not be transferred to any other taxicab,
other than that taxicab for which it was issued, except under the following
conditions:
      (1)   If a taxicab is to be retired permanently from service during the
year, then an application for the transfer of the city license shall be made to
the City Controller showing the information required in division (F) below and
having attached thereto the rider to the insurance policy covering the
substitute taxicab; and
      (2)   In the event that a taxicab operator wishes to substitute
temporarily a taxicab for one that is undergoing repairs, he or she shall
notify the Chief of Police and advise him or her of the serial number of the
substitute taxicab and give him or her the name and telephone number of the
insurance agent who issued the liability policy to cover the substitute taxicab
during the period. The Chief of Police shall make an investigation, as he or
she deems proper, to assure that the substitute taxicab is in a safe operating
condition and is properly insured. Upon these findings, he or she shall notify
the taxicab owner that he or she may transfer the city license to the
substitute taxicab and shall enter this decision on the police daily case
sheet. Upon return of the original taxicab to service, the owner shall again
notify the Chief of Police that he or she is returning the original taxicab to
service and transferring the city license back to the original taxicab, which
facts shall be entered in the daily police case sheet.
(Prior Code, § 128.08)
   (F)   Vehicle descriptions; driver information. The permittee shall also
provide to the City Controller the following:
      (1)   A description of each vehicle to be operated including the:
         (a)   Make;
         (b)   Model;
         (c)   Motor and chassis numbers;
         (d)   Seating capacity;
         (e)   Age of vehicle;
         (f)   State license number;
         (g)   State registered owner; and
         (h)   Color scheme to be used.
      (2)   A statement concerning each proposed driver showing compliance with
the following:
         (a)   No person shall act as a driver of a taxicab licensed under this
chapter unless possessing the following qualifications:
            1.   Have attained the age of 21;
            2.   Possess good physical health and having no history or symptoms
of any disease or disorder which might render him or her unfit for the safe
operation of a taxicab;
            3.   Be able to read and write the English language;
            4.   Be clean in dress and person and not be addicted to the use of
intoxicating liquors or narcotics;
            5.   Have the proper state license to operate a taxicab; and
            6.   Be of good moral character.
         (b)   No person shall engage in operating a taxicab required to be
licensed under this chapter until he or she has obtained an identification card
from the Chief of Police, three inches by six inches in size, bearing the
photograph and name of the driver which shall, at all times when he or she is
driving a taxicab, be mounted above the meter in a manner so that it will be
plainly visible and in view of the passenger at all times. Each cab company
shall make available the proper facilities to hold this identification card
plus the number of the cab, and shall pay a reasonable sum to the proper
authorities for the cost of the identification card and photograph of each
driver.
(Prior Code, § 128.09)
(Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.054 PUBLIC STANDS.
   (A)   The following general locations are designated as public taxi stands
and shall be for the exclusive use of taxicabs licensed under the terms of this
chapter and no other vehicles whatsoever.
      (1)   Stand 1. The northeast corner of Indianapolis Blvd. and Chicago
Ave.;
      (2)   Stand 2. The Fir St. main entrance to St. Catherine’s Hospital;
      (3)   Stand 3. The South Shore Lines station at 5615 Indianapolis Blvd.;
      (4)   Stand 4. The west side of Indianapolis Blvd. immediately south of
its intersection with Columbus Dr.;
      (5)   Stand 5. The intersection of Michigan Ave. and Guthrie Ave.;
      (6)   Stand 6. Broadway immediately west of its intersection with Main
St.; and
      (7)   Stand 7. Chicago Ave. and McCook.
   (B)   All public taxi stands shall be of a width of 15 feet, shall not
exceed 50 feet in length, and shall be at specific locations at the general
locations heretofore designated as the Board of Works shall designate by
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 128.10) (Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.055 FARES.
   (A)   Operators of taxicabs shall charge passengers an amount as set by the
city from time to time for the first one-tenth mile or fraction thereof
traveled and an additional amount as set by the city from time to time for each
additional one-tenth mile or fraction thereof traveled while the passenger or
passengers are occupying the taxicab in the city, and shall not charge more
than an amount as set by the city from time to time per mile for trips outside
the city limits.
   (B)   Waiting time shall include the time when the taxicab is not in motion,
beginning with the arrival at the place to which it has been called, or the
time consumed while standing or waiting at the direction of the passenger.
Waiting time shall be charged at the rate in an amount as set by the city from
time to time for each minute or fraction thereof or an amount as set by the
city from time to time per hour.
   (C)   Any passenger upon demand, after payment of the fare, shall be
entitled to a receipt for the fare. The receipt shall show the name of the
owner of the taxicab, the items which were paid, and the date of payment.
   (D)   Every driver of a taxicab shall have the right to demand payment in
advance of the legal fare for all trips outside of the city, and may refuse to
transport or carry any person so refusing to pay the fare in advance.
   (E)   No driver of a licensed taxicab shall carry any other than the
passenger first employing the taxicab without consent of the person first
employing it. If they are together but going to different destinations, they
each will pay fares.
   (F)   All disputes as to fares shall be determined by the officer in charge
of the police station nearest the place where the dispute arose. Drivers of the
taxicabs shall abide by the decision of the officer.
   (G)   No driver of a taxicab shall charge or attempt to charge any passenger
a higher rate of fare than to which he or she is entitled under the provisions
of this chapter.
   (H)   Shared ride fare. Up to four passengers may ride from a single
departure point to a single destination point for the same fare.
(Prior Code, § 128.11) (Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.056 TAXIMETERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, or driving a taxicab
to operate or to use or advertise in connection therewith the words “taxicab,”
“taxi,” or “cab” when soliciting a trade from the public or to represent
himself or herself as the driver, operator, or owner of a taxicab, unless the
taxicab is equipped with a taximeter complying with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning, operating, or driving a taxicab
to operate or drive a taxicab unless the fare to be charged is determined by a
standard type taximeter and no other or different fare shall be charged to the
passenger than is recorded on the reading face of the taximeter for the trip.
(Prior Code, § 128.12) (Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.057 DRIVER IDENTIFICATION.
   Each driver shall, at all times that he or she is operating a taxicab, wear
a cap or hat with an insignia or badge which will identify the company for whom
he or she is operating the taxicab.
(Prior Code, § 128.13) (Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.058 PERSONS PERMITTED IN FRONT SEAT.
   (A)   No passenger or other person shall be permitted to occupy the front
seat beside the driver, unless the rear seat is occupied by two or more
persons. If both the front and rear seat are occupied in compliance with this
chapter, the driver of the taxicab shall not be required to transfer the person
in the front seat to the rear seat when the passengers in the rear seat get out
at their destination.
   (B)   It shall be lawful for the driver to permit the person to remain in
the front seat until he or she arrives at his or her destination.
   (C)   It shall be lawful to permit a handicapped person, who could not ride
comfortably or with safety in the rear seat, to occupy the front seat.
(Prior Code, § 128.14) (Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.059 ONLY PAID PERSONS ALLOWED.
   Only paid passengers shall be permitted to ride in taxicabs.
(Prior Code, § 128.15) (Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.060 RULES AND REGULATIONS PREREQUISITE TO LICENSING.
   No license shall be issued for a taxicab unless it shall comply with the
following rules and regulations.
   (A)   Floormat. The taxicab shall be equipped with a floormat made of
rubber, leather, metal chain, or other similar nonabsorbent, washable material
and shall be easily removable.
   (B)   Dome light. Every taxicab shall be equipped with an interior dome
light of sufficient candlepower to illuminate the entire interior.
   (C)   Name and number of cab. No license shall be issued for any taxicab
unless the name of the owner operating the taxicab and the number of the cab
shall be painted in letters at least two inches in height on both sides of the
taxicab.
   (D)   Mechanical condition. No taxicab license shall be issued for a vehicle
that is not in excellent mechanical condition and manufactured within five
years immediately prior to the issuing of the license.
   (E)   Taximeter. No taxicab license shall be issued for any vehicle unless
the vehicle shall have affixed thereto a taximeter of standard size and design.
The taximeters shall be illuminated by a suitable light or arranged so as to
throw a continuous steady light on the face of the dial thereof which shall be
visible to the passenger. The case of the taximeter shall be sealed and its
cover and gear must be intact and in proper working order at all times.
   (F)   Compliance. A taxicab shall be deemed to be in compliance with
divisions (A) through (E) above if it has been licensed by another municipality
in the county, within 90 days of the date of license application in the city,
pursuant to conditions identical or substantially similar to divisions (A)
through (E) above.
(Prior Code, § 128.16) (Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.061 INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for any taxicab or to any operator thereof
until the owner of the taxicab shall file with the City Controller an insurance
policy in regard to the taxicab sought to be licensed which provides a minimum
of an amount as set by the city from time to time combined single limit
liability.
   (B)   The insurance policy shall be issued by a responsible insurance
carrier licensed to do business in the state and the form of policy shall be
approved by the corporation counsel.
(Prior Code, § 128.17) (Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.062 CORPORATIONS AND PARTNERSHIP.
   No corporation or partnership shall be granted a permit under the provisions
of this chapter unless the corporation or partnership is qualified to do
business in the state.
(Prior Code, § 128.18) (Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
115.999
§ 115.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter,
for which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of §
10.999.
      (2)   Gasoline service stations. Upon conviction of violation of any
provisions of §§
115.001 through
115.020, the establishment shall be fined an amount as set by the city from
time to time or the license may be revoked for a period of 30 days or the
establishment may be both fined and have the license revoked. Each day the
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate
offense and shall be punishable as such.
(Prior Code, § 118.99)
   (C)   Any person who, or corporation which, shall violate any provision of
§§
115.050 through
115.062 or shall fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, or who shall violate or fail to comply with this chapter shall be
guilty of an offense, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than
an amount as set by the city from time to time and each day the violation shall
be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 128.99)
(Ord. 3165, passed - -1977; Ord. 0-93-0028, passed - -1994)
CHAPTER 116: PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, SOLICITORS
Section
Solicitors and Canvassers
   
116.001   Definitions
   
116.002   Licenses
Peddlers
   
116.015   Peddler defined
   
116.016   Inspection of food and vehicles
   
116.017   Weights and measures
   
116.018   Loud noises, horns, amplifiers
   
116.019   Identification
   
116.020   Sanitary and health requirements
   
116.021   Sale of unwholesome food products
   
116.022   Use of streets
   
116.023   Licenses
Transient and Itinerant Merchants
   
116.035   Definitions
   
116.036   Loud noises; sound amplifying devices; prohibited acts
   
116.037   Licenses
 
   
116.999   Penalty
SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
§ 116.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not,
traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck, or any other type of
conveyance from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street,
taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares, or merchandise,
personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery or for services
to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not the individual has,
carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of the sale or whether he
or she is collecting advance payment on the sales or not; provided, that the
definition shall include any person who for himself, herself, or for another
person, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building, structure, tent,
railroad boxcar, boat, hotel room, lodginghouse, apartment, shop, or any other
place within the city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking
orders for future delivery.
(Prior Code, § 120.100)
§ 116.002 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any solicitor or canvasser as defined in
this subchapter to engage in the business within the city without first
obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 120.101)
   (B)   Application. A written application for the license shall be filed with
the City Controller in compliance with the general licensing provisions of this
code. In addition to the general information required, the application shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      (2)   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold or orders
taken for the sale thereof are manufactured or produced, where the goods or
products are located at the time the application is filed and the proposed
method of delivery;
      (3)   A photograph of the applicant taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be two
inches by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear
and distinguishing manner;
      (4)   The fingerprints of the applicant and references as to the
applicant’s good character and business respectability;
      (5)   The complete criminal record, if any, of the applicant; and
      (6)   A statement by a reputable physician of the city dated not more
than ten days prior to submission of the application certifying the applicant
to be free of contagious, infectious, or communicable disease.
(Prior Code, § 120.102)
   (C)   Bond. Every applicant not a resident of the city or who, being a
resident of the city, represents a firm whose principal place of business is
located outside the state shall file with the City Controller a surety bond,
payable to the city in the penal sum of an amount as set by the city from time
to time, with acceptable surety, conditioned that the applicant shall comply
fully with all the provisions of law and this subchapter regulating and
concerning the business of solicitors and guaranteeing to any person that all
money paid in the city as a down payment will be accounted for and applied
according to the representations of the solicitor and further guaranteeing to
any person doing business with the solicitor in the city that the property
purchased will be delivered according to the representations of the solicitor.
Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the city to the use or benefit
of the aggrieved person.
(Prior Code, § 120.103)
   (D)   Fees.
      (1)   The license fee which shall be required of each applicant shall be
an amount as set by the city from time to time per annum, and shall be payable
in advance. On all licenses applied for after July 1, only one-half the annual
fee shall be required.
      (2)   None of the license fees provided for by this subchapter shall be
so applied as to occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce. In any case
where a license fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for license to place
an undue burden upon the commerce, he or she may apply to the City Controller
for an adjustment of the fee so that it shall not be discriminatory,
unreasonable, or unfair as to the commerce. The application may be made before,
at, or within six months after payment of the prescribed license fee, but at
least one month before the end of the calendar year. The applicant shall, by
affidavit and supporting testimony, show his or her method of business and the
gross volume or estimated gross volume of business and other information as the
City Controller may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of
undue burden on commerce. The City Controller shall then conduct an
investigation, compare the applicant’s business with other businesses of a
similar nature, and shall make findings of fact from which he or she shall
determine whether the fee fixed by this section is unfair, unreasonable, or
discriminatory as to the applicant’s business and shall fix as the license fee
for the applicant an amount that is fair, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory or,
if the fee has already been paid, shall order a refund of the amount over and
above the fee so fixed. In fixing the fee to be charged, the City Controller
shall have the power to base the fee upon a percentage of the gross sales or
any other method which will assure that the fee assessed shall be uniform with
that assessed on businesses of like nature, so long as the amount assessed does
not exceed the fees as prescribed in this section. Should the City Controller
determine the gross sales measure of the fee to be the fair basis, he or she
may require the applicant to submit, either at the time of termination of
applicant’s business in the city or at the end of each three-month period, a
sworn statement of the gross sales and pay the amount of fee therefor;
provided, that no additional fee during any one calendar year shall be required
after the licensee shall have paid an amount equal to the annual license as
prescribed in this section.
(Prior Code, § 120.104)
   (E)   Badge issuance. The City Controller shall issue a license and a badge,
which shall contain the words “licensed solicitor,” the period for which the
license is issued and the number of the license, in letters and figures easily
discernible from the distance of ten feet. The badge shall, during the time the
licensee is engaged in soliciting, be worn constantly by the licensee on the
front of his or her outer garment in a way as to be conspicuous.
(Prior Code, § 120.105)
Penalty, see §
116.999
PEDDLERS
§ 116.015 PEDDLER DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by
foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance from place to
place, from house to house, or from street to street carrying or transporting
goods, wares, merchandise, meat, butter, eggs, cheese, fish, vegetables,
fruits, garden truck, farm products, ice cream, or provisions, offering and
exposing the same for sale or making sales and delivering articles to
purchasers, or who, without traveling from place to place, shall sell or offer
the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car, or other
vehicle or conveyance; provided, that one who solicits orders and, as a
separate transaction, makes deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or
design to evade the provisions of this subchapter shall be deemed a PEDDLER and
subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The word PEDDLER shall also include the words HAWKER and HUCKSTER.
(Prior Code, § 120.055)
§ 116.016 INSPECTION OF FOOD AND VEHICLES.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Health to cause periodic inspections,
as often as necessary, of the food offered for sale and the vehicles used to
determine if there has been compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
Ice cream trucks are to be of safe design; service is to be from the curb side
of the vehicle only. Stopping or parking of ice cream trucks in the middle of
the street is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 120.056) (Ord. 3215, passed - -1979) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.017 WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.
   (A)   All peddlers using any weights, scales, measures, or weighing or
measuring devices shall cause the same to be inspected by the City Inspector of
Weights and Measures before they are used. If the weights or measures prove to
be correct, the Inspector shall stamp thereon the proper seal for the year
during which the same are to be used.
   (B)   No licensee under this subchapter shall use any scales or measuring
devices until they have first been approved by the Inspector as herein
required.
(Prior Code, § 120.057) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.018 LOUD NOISES, HORNS, AMPLIFIERS.
   No peddler nor any person on his or her behalf shall shout, make any cryout,
blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any sound device, including any loud speaking
radio or sound amplifying systems upon any of the streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parks, or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the
city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be
capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or
other public places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods,
wares, or merchandise which the peddler licensed under this subchapter proposes
to sell.
(Prior Code, § 120.058) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.019 IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Every vehicle used by a peddler shall have the name of the owner and
his or her address plainly and legibly painted in letters and figures at least
two inches in height in a conspicuous place on the outside of each side of
every vehicle and name shall be kept plain and distinct at all times while the
vehicle is in use for peddling in the city.
   (B)   Every peddler who uses a vehicle shall obtain from the City Controller
a suitable license plate for the vehicle. The license plate or emblem shall
have, stamped or imprinted thereon, “City of East Chicago—Peddler” and the
year.
   (C)   Every individual having a license under this subchapter as a peddler
while engaged in the business of peddling in the city shall wear conspicuously,
on the outside of his or her outside coat or garment, a badge or shield
furnished by the City Controller. The badge shall have stamped on it the words
“peddler,” the year, “City of East Chicago,” and a number.
   (D)   Every helper on a vehicle shall have a badge marked “peddler’s
helper.”
   (E)   The license badge shall not be worn at any time by any person other
than the one to whom it was issued by the city.
   (F)   Each peddler or helper shall also carry with him or her a card
furnished by the City Controller showing all necessary details and information
in connection with his or her license, including the date of expiration.
(Prior Code, § 120.059) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.020 SANITARY AND HEALTH REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   No person having an infectious or contagious disease, which may
be transmitted, or who is a disease carrier shall be engaged in the handling of
food products for human consumption or in the handling of containers in which
the foods are packed. The Board of Health may require each person so engaged to
submit to proper examination for the purpose of determining his or her
condition in this respect and for this purpose may require a medical
certificate given by a reputable physician stating that the licensee, helper,
employee, or agent is free from infectious or contagious disease and is not a
disease carrier.
      (2)   Form certificates shall be prepared and provided by the Board of
Health for physicians. The physician’s certificate must be approved by the
Board of Health.
      (3)   The City Controller may require the certificate of the Board of
Health prior to the issuance of a license under this subchapter.
   (B)   All vehicles used by licensees under this subchapter shall be so
constructed that the portion of the vehicle which contains the food products
for human consumption shall be covered in a manner that no dust or dirt will
settle on the products. The vehicles and all other equipment and facilities
used shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be protected
from dust, flies, rodents, and other contamination.
   (C)   The operators of any vehicles used in connection with any licensees
under this subchapter shall observe all the sanitary requirements prescribed in
this subchapter, and the requirements shall extend to the licensee and his or
her employees while engaged in and about the handling of foods and food
products on their way to and from and while in the vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 120.060) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.021 SALE OF UNWHOLESOME FOOD PRODUCTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee under this subchapter to have in his
or her possession with intent to sell or offer for sale any food products for
human consumption which are unclean, unwholesome, tainted, putrid, decayed,
adulterated, poisoned, infected, or in any manner rendered unsafe or
unwholesome for human consumption. The food products shall be deemed
unwholesome for human food if the same have been contaminated by flies or other
insects, vermin, dust, dirt, or other form of contamination; if they contain
any poison or deleterious or injurious ingredients in kinds and quantities to
render the article injurious or detrimental to health; or if they contain the
whole or part of any uninspected or unpassed meat or meat products.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee under this subchapter to sell or offer
for sale any food products for human consumption contrary to law or rules or
regulations of the Department of Agriculture of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 120.061) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.022 USE OF STREETS.
   No licensee under this subchapter shall have exclusive right to occupy any
portion of a business street, alley, or other public grounds in the business
districts of the city; nor shall he or she be permitted a stationary location;
nor shall he or she be permitted to operate in any congested area where his or
her operations might impede or inconvenience the public. In no instance shall
the licensee remain at one point longer than ten minutes.
(Prior Code, § 120.062) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.023 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on the
business of a peddler within the city without first obtaining a license to do
so as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 120.063)
   (B)   Application; contents; bond.
      (1)   Every person who desires a license under this subchapter as a
peddler or hawker shall make written application therefor in conformity with
the general licensing requirements of this code at least two days before the
license is issued. The application shall be sworn to by the applicant and shall
show the kind of goods to be offered for sale.
      (2)   In addition to the information usually required, the applicant
shall be required to state the nature of the business and the equipment and
facilities to be used. A copy of each application shall be transmitted
immediately to the City Health Officer.
      (3)   The applicant shall furnish a photograph of himself or herself
taken within 60 days of the application, which picture shall be two inches by
two inches and show the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and
distinguishing manner.
      (4)   The applicant shall have his or her fingerprints taken by the
police and shall give full details of his or her criminal record, if any.
      (5)   The applicant shall furnish evidence of his or her good character
and business responsibility.
      (6)   The application shall be accompanied by a surety bond payable to
the city in the penal sum of an amount as set by the city from time to time
executed by a surety company or by two freeholders resident in the county or,
in lieu thereof, a cash bond of equal amount conditioned that all goods, wares,
merchandise, personal property, agricultural products, produce, poultry, meats,
fish, eggs, and other similar articles or goods sold by the applicant will be
as represented by him or her and that he or she will refund the purchase price
of any personal property, articles, or products which are not as represented.
The bond shall continue in force for 30 days after the expiration of the
license.
      (7)   Any purchaser of the personal property, articles, or products which
are not as represented shall have a right of action on the bond for damages
sustained by reason of the misrepresentation.
(Prior Code, § 120.064)
   (C)   Investigation by Chief of Police; approval.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the application, the original shall be referred to
the Chief of Police, who shall cause the investigation of the applicant’s
business and moral character to be made as he or she deems necessary.
      (2)   After investigation of the character or business responsibility of
applicant, the Chief of Police shall endorse on the application his or her
approval or disapproval and he or she shall so notify the City Controller who
shall be governed by the report.
      (3)   If as a result of the investigation the applicant has been
approved, he or she shall pay the fees required.
(Prior Code, § 120.065)
   (D)   Duration; payment of fees. Licenses issued under this subchapter shall
be for the full license period of one year. The entire annual fee must be paid
in advance and no deduction shall be allowed from the fee for the licenses for
any part of the year the license is not used.
(Prior Code, § 120.066)
   (E)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   The annual license fee for a peddler using a motor-propelled
vehicle shall be an amount as set by the city from time to time.
      (2)   The annual license fee for peddler’s helpers shall be an amount as
set by the city from time to time for each helper.
      (3)   For all other peddlers embraced by the terms of this subchapter,
the annual license fee shall be an amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 120.067)
   (F)   Transferability. No license granted under this subchapter shall be
transferable or authorize any other person than the one named therein to engage
in the business sanctioned by the license.
(Prior Code, § 120.068)
   (G)   Display. No person who whom a license or certificate has been issued
under the provisions of this subchapter shall refuse, upon request made, to
show the license or certificate to any police officer of the city or to any
person to whom he or she shall offer to sell any goods, wares, merchandise,
personal property, or agricultural products.
(Prior Code, § 120.069)
Penalty, see §
116.999
TRANSIENT AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
§ 116.035 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT, or ITINERANT VENDOR.
      (1)   Any person, whether as owner, agent, consignee, or employee,
whether a resident of the city or not, who engages in a temporary business of
selling and delivering goods, wares, or merchandise within the city and who, in
furtherance of the purpose, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building,
structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, or boat, public rooms in
hotels, lodginghouses, apartments, shops, or any street, alley, or other place
within the city for the exhibition and sale of the goods, wares, or
merchandise, either privately or at public auction; provided, that the
definition shall not be construed to include any person who, while occupying
the temporary location, does not sell from stock, but exhibits samples only for
the purpose of obtaining orders for future delivery only.
   (2)   The person so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this subchapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with
any local dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer or by conducting the
transient business in connection with, as a part of or in the name of any local
dealer, trader, merchant, or auctioneer.
(Prior Code, § 120.120)
§ 116.036 LOUD NOISES; SOUND AMPLIFYING DEVICES; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No transient merchant, itinerant merchant, or itinerant vendor, nor any
persons acting in his or her behalf shall shout, make any cryout, blow a horn,
ring a bell, or use any sound device, including any loud speaking radio or
sound amplifying systems upon any of the streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or
other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the city where
sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be capable of
being plainly heard upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or other public
places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares, or
merchandise which the transient merchant, itinerant merchant, or itinerant
vendor proposes to sell.
(Prior Code, § 120.121) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.037 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. No transient merchant, itinerant merchant, or itinerant
vendor shall engage in, do, or transact any business, as such, in the city
without having first obtained a license as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 120.122)
   (B)   Application. A written application for the license shall be filed not
less than five days before the license is desired in compliance with the
general licensing provisions of this code. In addition to the information
required under the general licensing provisions of this code, the applicant
shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   The fingerprints of the persons having the management or
supervision of the applicant’s business;
      (2)   The place other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant where the applicant, within six months next preceding the date of the
application, conducted a transient business, stating the nature of and giving
the post office and street address of any building or office in which the
business was conducted;
      (3)   A statement of the nature, character, and quality of the goods,
wares, or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the
city; the invoice value and quality of the goods, wares, and merchandise;
whether the same are proposed to be sold for stock in possession or from stock
in possession and by sample, at auction, by direct sale or by direct sale and
by taking orders for future delivery, where the goods or property proposed to
be sold are manufactured or produced and where the goods or products are
located at the time the application is filed;
      (4)   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising
done or proposed to be done in order to attract customers;
      (5)   The complete criminal record, if any, of the person having the
management or supervision of the applicant’s business; and
      (6)   Other relevant information.
(Prior Code, § 120.123)
   (C)   Bond.
      (1)   An application for a license under this subchapter shall be
accompanied by a bond payable to the city in the penal sum of an amount as set
by the city from time to time, executed by the applicant as principal and by an
acceptable surety company or by two freeholders resident in the county or, in
lieu thereof, a cash bond of equal amount conditioned that the applicant shall
fully comply with the provisions of law and this subchapter and will pay all
judgments rendered against the applicant for any violation thereof, together
with all judgments and costs that may be recovered against him or her by any
person for damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced
on any person transacting the business with the applicant, whether the
misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or their
agents or employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any
advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference
to the goods, wares, and merchandise. Action on the bond may be brought in the
name of the city to the use of the aggrieved person.
      (2)   In the event a cash bond is deposited, the bond shall be retained
by the city for six months from the date of the license.
(Prior Code, § 120.124)
   (D)   Service of process. Before any license shall be issued under this
subchapter, the applicant shall file with the City Controller an instrument
nominating and appointing the Controller his or her true and lawful agent with
full power and authority to acknowledge service or notice of process for and on
behalf of the applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out
of the business transacted under the license and the bond given as provided in
division (C) above or for the performance of the conditions of the bond or for
any breach thereof, which instrument shall also contain recitals to the effect
that the applicant for a license under this subchapter consents and agrees that
service of any notice or process may be made upon the agent and when so made
shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the person
applying for the license under this subchapter, according to the law of this or
any other state and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of any
acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of
process upon the City Controller as herein provided, the City Controller shall
send to the licensee, at his or her last known address; by registered mail a
copy of the process.
(Prior Code, § 120.125)
   (E)   Issuance; fees; duration; renewals.
      (1)   Upon the filing of an application and bond under this subchapter,
to the approval of the City Controller, and instrument for service of process,
a license shall be issued to the applicant upon payment of the following fees:
an amount as set by the city from time to time per day for the first ten days
or any part thereof; and after the first ten days, a license fee of an amount
as set by the city from time to time per day.
      (2)   No license shall be issued for a shorter period than six days or
for a longer period than one month.
      (3)   All license fees must be paid in advance and, if any licensee
desires to continue in business after expiration of the license, a new license
must be obtained in the same manner and upon the same terms as the original
license.
(Prior Code, § 120.126)
   (F)   Transferability. No license or certificate issued under this
subchapter shall be transferable; nor shall any person other than the one named
in the license be permitted to use the same; nor shall any license protect any
person from incurring the penalties prescribed by this code.
(Prior Code, § 120.127)
   (G)   Display. No person to whom a license or certificate has been issued
under the provisions of this subchapter shall refuse, upon request made, to
show any license or certificate to any police officer of the city or to any
person to whom he or she shall offer to sell any goods, wares, or merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 120.128)
Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.999.
(Prior Code, § 120.999) (Ord. 0-08-0027, passed 10-27-2008)
CHAPTER 117: SPECIALIZED SALES AND SERVICES
Section
Pawnbrokers
   
117.001   Pawnbroker defined
   
117.002   Licenses
   
117.003   Bond
   
117.004   Interest rates
   
117.005   Records of pledges and purchases
   
117.006   Daily report to police
   
117.007   Memorandum to pledger
   
117.008   Display of weapons
   
117.009   Hours of operation
   
117.010   Sale, redemption, and the like
   
117.011   Prohibited transactions generally
   
117.012   Record keeping and identification requirements
Junk Dealers and Peddlers
   
117.025   Definitions
   
117.026   Identification of vehicles
   
117.027   Fencing of yards; location of junk
   
117.028   Location of business
   
117.029   Melting of articles; when
   
117.030   Sales; when
   
117.031   Operation as pawnbroker
   
117.032   Hours of business
   
117.033   Stolen goods
   
117.034   Licenses
Secondhand Dealers
   
117.045   License
   
117.046   Business locations to comply with zoning regulations
   
117.047   Record of purchases
   
117.048   Daily reports to police
   
117.049   Sales
Scrap Metal Merchants
   
117.060   Definition
   
117.061   Payments
   
117.062   Stolen property
   
117.063   Law enforcement; right to inspect
Garage Sales
   
117.075   Definition
   
117.076   When and how permitted
Auctions
   
117.090   Definitions
   
117.091   Hours of sale
   
117.092   Location of sale
   
117.093   Attracting attention to sale
   
117.094   Conditions of sale
   
117.095   Property for sale; announcement of description
   
117.096   Identification tags; sales book
   
117.097   False representations
   
117.098   Return of misrepresented goods
   
117.099   Substitution of articles
   
117.100   Fictitious bids
   
117.101   Enforcement of chapter
Aluminum Purchase Recordation
   
117.115   Definitions
   
117.116   Record of purchases; retention and filing of copies
   
117.117   Purchases to be kept separate and identifiable
   
117.118   Applicability of provisions
Coal or Coke Dealers
   
117.130   Retail coal or coke dealer defined
   
117.131   Licenses
Self Service Laundries
   
117.145   Definition
   
117.146   Licenses
   
117.147   Permitted business hours
   
117.148   Equipment installation requirements
   
117.149   Cleanliness requirements for premises   
   
117.150   Toilet facilities
   
117.151   Inspection requirements
Public Movers
   
117.165   Definition
   
117.166   Vehicle identification
   
117.167   Licenses
 
   
117.999   Penalty
PAWNBROKERS
§ 117.001 PAWNBROKER DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person who engages in the business of lending money on the
deposit or pledge of personal property other than choses in action, securities,
or printed evidence of indebtedness. PAWNBROKER shall include any individual or
business that purchases gold, sliver, copper, or other precious metal.
(Prior Code, § 120.030) (Ord. O-12-0024, passed 9-24-2012)
§ 117.002 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. No person shall engage in the business of pawnbroker in the
city without first obtaining a license therefor as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 120.031)
   (B)   Fee; application. The annual fee for a pawnbroker’s license shall be
the sum of an amount as set by the city from time to time which shall be paid
to the city before an application is made to the City Controller in compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 120.032)
   (C)   Issuance. Upon the filing of the application for a pawnbroker’s
license, if the City Controller shall find the financial standing and character
of the applicant are such that the business will be operated honestly, fairly,
and efficiently, the City Controller shall issue a license to the applicant as
provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 120.033)
Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.003 BOND.
   Every person licensed as a pawnbroker shall, at the time of receiving the
license, execute a bond to the city in the sum of an amount as set by the city
from time to time, with good and sufficient sureties, conditioned for the due
observance of the provisions of this subchapter respecting pawnbrokers at all
times during the continuance of the license and for the use of any person who
may have a cause of action against the obligor of the bond under the provisions
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 120.034) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.004 INTEREST RATES.
   The pawnbroker shall not charge or receive interest on loans at a rate in
excess of that authorized by law.
(Prior Code, § 120.035) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.005 RECORDS OF PLEDGES AND PURCHASES.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a book in which shall be recorded, legibly
in ink, at the time of making each loan, an accurate account and description in
the English language of the goods, articles, or things pawned or pledged, the
amount of money loaned thereon, the time of pledging the same, the rate of
interest to be paid on the loan, the name and residence address of the person
pawning or pledging the goods, articles, or things; the facts showing whether
the pledge is made by a person acting as agent for a disclosed principal and,
if so, the names and addresses of principal and agent; the age, color, height,
weight, complexion, and style of dress of the person pawning the article and
the serial number of the loan.
   (B)   In a separate book, the pawnbroker shall record, in ink, all sales or
redeemed pledges showing the number, date, amount, and duration of each loan,
the date of the sale, the amount realized from the sale of the collateral, the
amount charged to the pledger as interest, commission, and expenses of sale,
the amount of the surplus or deficit, as the case may be, the date on which and
the person to whom the surplus, if any, was paid.
   (C)   In no event shall any required entry be delayed longer than one hour
after the transaction, and no entry in the records shall be obliterated,
erased, or defaced.
   (D)   The records, as well as every article or thing of value pawned or
pledged, shall at all reasonable times be open to the inspection of the Chief
of Police or his or her duly appointed agent.
(Prior Code, § 120.036) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.006 DAILY REPORT TO POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker to make out and deliver to the
Chief of Police every day before the hour of 12:00 p.m., a legible and correct
copy from the books required in this subchapter of all personal property and
other valuable things received on deposit and all secondhand articles purchased
during the preceding day, setting forth the hour when received and the
description of the person by whom left in pledge or sold.
(Prior Code, § 120.037) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.007 MEMORANDUM TO PLEDGER.
   (A)   A pawnbroker shall, at the time of making a loan, deliver to the
pledger or his or her agent a memorandum containing the substance of the entry
made in his or her books as required in this subchapter.
   (B)   There shall be no charge for the memorandum.
(Prior Code, § 120.038) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.008 DISPLAY OF WEAPONS.
   No pawnbroker shall show, display, or exhibit any pistol, revolver,
derringer, bowie knife, dirk, or other weapon of similar character which can be
concealed on the person, in any show window or in or on any premises
immediately abutting upon any public street in the city in such a way that the
same may be seen from the street.
(Prior Code, § 120.039) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.009 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No pawnbroker shall receive on deposit or pledge any personal property or
other valuable thing or shall buy any secondhand article or thing or carry on
the business before the hour of 8:00 a.m. or after the hour of 10:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 120.040) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.010 SALE, REDEMPTION, AND THE LIKE.
   No personal property received on deposit, purchased on condition, pledged,
or pawned to the pawnbroker shall be sold or permitted to be redeemed or
removed from the place of business of the pawnbroker for a period of 24 hours
after a copy of the statement required by this subchapter has been delivered to
the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 120.041) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.011 PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No pawnbroker shall purchase or take or receive any pledge or purchase
any article or any thing from a minor.
   (B)   No pawnbroker shall receive any pledge or purchase any article from
any person who is known by him or her to be a thief or associate of a thief or
receiver or stolen property or from any person whom he or she has reason to
suspect or believe to be any of the foregoing.
   (C)   No pawnbroker shall purchase personal property or any other valuable
thing agreeing to sell the same back to the seller at a price other than the
original purchase price, at a total charge rate of interest, discount, or other
remuneration in excess of the rate permitted by law.
   (D)   No pawnbroker shall permit any person under the age of 16 to take
pledges in pawn for him or her or to purchase secondhand articles for him or
her.
   (E)   No pawnbroker shall take or receive any article or thing of value in
pawn or pledge from any person who is intoxicated at the time of offering the
article in pawn or pledge.
(Prior Code, § 120.042) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.012 RECORD KEEPING AND IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any individual or business licenses in the city under any provisions
of this subchapter for being a pawnbroker, a “cash for metal business,” or a
scrap metal broker or buyer shall keep a correct, accurate, and up to date list
and detailed description in a book or computer program, in English, for the
purpose of listing and describing, including inscriptions found any jewelry or
identifying marks, any and every article, thing, item valuable, pieces of
jewelry, metal, tool, fixture pledged, deposited, or brought in for sale or
trade. In addition such individual or business shall keep a correct, accurate,
and up to date photograph, either by film or on a digital camera, showing each
and every item pledged, deposited, or brought in for sale or trade. All bulk
metals must include a description and total weight.
   (B)   (1)   All individuals or businesses operating under this subchapter
shall ask every customer making a pledge, deposit, or sale transaction, a
photographic identification. This identification may be by a current valid
driver’s license or other state identification card.
      (2)   This photographic identification shall be verified, copied, and
kept with the receipt of photographs showing the date, time, and items pledged,
deposited, or sold by that person and shall be made available to the City
Police Department or any other federal, state, or local law enforcement
official when requested. Additionally, the individual or business receiving or
accepting the items shall record the license plate of the vehicle used by the
customer to deliver the goods or metal for pledge, deposit, or sale.
      (3)   Further the person pledging, depositing, or selling the goods shall
be asked for the source of the goods or metal. Failure of the seller to provide
such disclosure shall prohibit the business from accepting the goods or metal.
   (C)   In addition to the above Records, payment shall be by check with the
date and check number noted and retained. Payment by cash is prohibited.
Records of all transactions shall be maintained and retained for a three year
period from the origin date.
   (D)   Any violation of this section shall be fined as called for in §
117.999. Each violation of this subchapter shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. O-12-0024, passed 9-24-2012)
JUNK DEALERS AND PEDDLERS
§ 117.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FENCE. Any place for the purchase, reception, or keeping of stolen goods,
except when the context requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Old iron, chain, brass, copper, tin, lead, or other base metals, old
rope, old bags, rags, waste paper, feathers, paper clippings, scraps of
woolens, clips, bagging, rubber, glass, and empty bottles of different kinds
and sizes, when the number of each kind or size is less than one gross and all
articles and things discarded or no longer used as a manufactured article
composed of consisting of any one or more of the materials or articles herein
mentioned.
   JUNK DEALER. Every person who shall engage in the business of buying,
selling, bartering, or exchanging, or who shall collect, receive, store, or
hold in possession for sale, barter, or exchange any of the things defined in
this section as junk or purchases from junk peddlers; provided, that a junk
peddler as defined in this section who does not occupy premises within the city
owned, leased, or purchased especially for the purpose of the business shall
not be deemed a JUNK DEALER under the terms of this subchapter.
   JUNK PEDDLER. Every person who uses a junk wagon as defined in this section
and travels from place to place within the city for the purpose of purchasing
junk or who, without a junk yard or junk store within the city, makes a
business of purchasing junk and carries it away upon purchasing it.
   JUNK STORE. Any store, shop, warehouse, or building where junk is bought,
sold, bartered, or exchanged or where junk is collected, received, stored, or
held in possession for resale, barter, or exchange, either at wholesale or
retail.
   JUNK YARD. Any yard, place, or enclosure other than a junk store, as defined
in this section, where junk is bought, sold, bartered, or exchanged, either at
wholesale or retail or where junk is collected, received, stored, or held in
possession for resale, barter, or exchange, either at wholesale or retail.
(Prior Code, § 120.001)
§ 117.026 IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each junk wagon shall be permanently and legibly marked with the name
of the licensed dealer using the wagon, together with the street and number of
his or her place of business.
   (B)   Whenever any junk dealer shall remove his or her place of business
from the place designated in the license, the dealer shall immediately change
the address on all junk wagons used by him or her to correspond with the new
place of business.
(Prior Code, § 120.002) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.027 FENCING OF YARDS; LOCATION OF JUNK.
   (A)   Every premises or enclosure, except a completely enclosed building,
used for the purpose of storing parts of dismantled vehicles shall be entirely
surrounded by a neat fence six feet in height, which fence shall be kept in a
proper state of repair and none of the enclosed articles shall be piled higher
than the fence.
   (B)   No junk shall be permitted to be or remain on the parkways, sidewalks,
streets, or public ways within the city.
(Prior Code, § 120.003) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.028 LOCATION OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to locate, conduct, or operate any junk
store or junk yard within 1,000 feet of a church, hospital, park, playground,
public building, or school, the distance to be measured by the shortest
straight line between the junk store or junk yard sought to be located,
conducted, or operated, and any building used for those purposes.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to locate, for the purpose of
conducting or operating, any junk store or junk yard in any block in which two-
thirds of the buildings on both sides of the street in any block are used
exclusively for residence purposes or residence and wholesale or retail store
purposes or use exclusively for wholesale or retail store purposes without the
written consent of a majority of the property owners according to the frontage
on both sides of the street; provided, that in determining whether two-thirds
of the buildings on both sides of the street in any block are used exclusively
for residence purposes, or residence and wholesale or retail store purposes, or
used exclusively for wholesale or retail store purposes, any building fronting
upon another street and located upon the corner lot shall not be considered;
provided further, that the word BLOCK as used in this section shall be held not
to mean a square, but shall be held to embrace only that part of the street in
question which lies between the two nearest intersecting streets on either side
of the lot on which the junk store or junk yard is to be located, conducted, or
operated.
      (2)   The written consent of the property owners shall be filed with the
Building Commissioner. If, after inspection and verification of the frontage
consents, the Building Commissioner shall find that this section and the
building and zoning regulations of this code have been complied with, he or she
shall issue a permit for the location or operation of the junk store or junk
yard.
(Prior Code, § 120.004) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.029 MELTING OF ARTICLES; WHEN.
   No article, thing, or substance included within the junk purchased,
received, or collected shall be melted, vulcanized, or otherwise changed or its
identity destroyed within two days after the same was purchased, received, or
collected.
(Prior Code, § 120.005) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.030 SALES; WHEN.
   No junk dealer or junk peddler shall expose for sale or sell or dispose of
any goods, article, junk, or thing whatsoever within two days of the time of
collecting, receiving, or purchasing the same, nor until the same shall have
been in the premises wherein the same are offered, exposed, or sold at least
two days; provided, that a junk peddler may dispose of junk collected by him or
her in bulk sales from day to day to a junk dealer whose duty it shall be to
hold the purchases for two days in conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 120.006) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.031 OPERATION AS PAWNBROKER.
   No retail junk dealer or junk peddler shall receive any article or thing by
way of pledge or pawn nor shall the dealer or peddler loan or advance any sum
of money on the security of any article or thing.
(Prior Code, § 120.007) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.032 HOURS OF BUSINESS.
   No junk dealer or junk peddler shall receive, in the conduct of his or her
business, any goods, articles, or thing whatsoever from any person between the
hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 120.008) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.033 STOLEN GOODS.
   (A)   No person shall keep, maintain, or conduct a place for the purchase,
reception, or keeping of stolen goods as a fence.
   (B)   Every junk dealer or junk peddler who shall receive or be in
possession of any goods, articles, things, or junk which may have been lost or
stolen or are alleged or supposed to have been lost or stolen shall forthwith
exhibit the same to any member of the police force on demand.
   (C)   The places of business, junk wagons and all junk of every junk dealer,
and the junk wagon of every junk peddler shall, at all reasonable times, be
open to the inspection of any member of the police force.
   (D)   Whenever there shall be filed with the Chief of Police, by the owner
or his or her agent, a sworn written and signed statement that the owner or the
agent has reason to believe that certain stolen goods or things specifically
described in a sworn statement are in the possession of any wholesale junk
dealer, any member of the police force shall have the right to inspect the
premises of the junk dealer at any reasonable hour and view all junk which has
been purchased, received, collected, or stored in the premises occupied by the
business.
(Prior Code, § 120.009) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.034 LICENSES.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to and no person shall operate as a
junk dealer or junk peddler nor engage in the business of keeping a junk store
or junk yard nor use a junk wagon for the purpose of collecting, transporting,
or disposing of junk without first obtaining a license from the city for that
purpose.
      (2)   A junk peddler’s license shall not authorize a junk peddler to
operate as a junk dealer, provided, that a junk dealer may employ the number of
junk peddlers as he or she may obtain junk vehicle licenses for, but in case it
shall be necessary for the junk peddler to have a license as the junk peddler
in addition to the license for the vehicle.
      (3)   A separate license shall be procured by every junk dealer for each
separate junk store or junk yard located on separate premises and for each junk
wagon used in the business. Where a junk store and a junk yard located upon the
same or contiguous or adjoining premises are conducted or operated by the same
person, the business shall be considered as one business and only one license
shall be required therefor.
      (4)   No person licensed as a junk dealer or junk peddler shall receive
or hold a license to conduct the business of a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer,
except as a dealer in parts and accessories of secondhand motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 120.010)
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   In addition to the general licensing provisions of this code, the
applicant for a license under this subchapter shall also state in his or her
written application that he or she has not kept, conducted, or operated and
that he or she has not been convicted of keeping, operating, or conducting a
fence within one year prior to the date of the application.
      (2)   Every person, if a corporation, making application for a license as
a junk dealer shall state in its written application that it has not, nor has
any of its officers, stockholders, or employees, kept, operated, or conducted
or been convicted of keeping, operating, or conducting a fence during the
period of one year prior to the date of the application.
      (3)   Every application for a license shall contain the signed
recommendation of at least three other citizens of the city as to the good
moral character of the applicant. The applicant shall state that the purpose of
his or her business is to engage in a particular type of junk business, stating
it, as the case may be, and that the person will observe and comply with all
provisions of this code or which may hereafter be passed, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 120.011)
   (C)   Fees. Fees for licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter are as
follows.
      (1)   Junk dealer’s license.
         (a)   The annual fee for a junk dealer’s license shall be an amount as
set by the city from time to time.
         (b)   Every junk dealer who shall operate a junk vehicle in connection
with his or her business shall pay the sum of an amount as set by the city from
time to time annually, additionally therefor, as a license fee. A separate
license shall be obtained for each junk vehicle used in the business.
      (2)   Junk peddler’s license. The annual fee for a junk peddler’s
license, where he or she operates with a junk wagon propelled by motor and who
has no junk yard, shall be an amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 120.012)
   (D)   Character of applicant. The City Controller shall direct the issuance
of licenses under this subchapter to the persons who shall produce satisfactory
evidence of good character or reputable standing subject to other provisions of
this code.
(Prior Code, § 120.013)
   (E)   Designation of location of business. Every license granted to a junk
dealer shall designate the house, store, place, building, warehouse, yard, or
enclosure in which the person receiving the license shall be authorized to
conduct or operate the business and the business shall not be conducted or
operated in any place other than the place designated in the license.
(Prior Code, § 120.014)
   (F)   Revocation. The license of any junk dealer or junk peddler who has
been convicted of keeping, maintaining, or conducting a fence shall, upon
conviction, be immediately revoked. No person shall be granted a license as a
retail junk dealer or junk peddler during the period of one year after
conviction. No corporation of which any one of the officers, stockholders, or
employees has been convicted of keeping, maintaining, or conducting a fence,
shall be granted a license as a retail junk dealer during the period of one
year after conviction, unless the corporation shall produce satisfactory
evidence to the Mayor that the officer, stockholder, or employee has disposed
of his or her entire interest in the corporation and has completely served his
or her connection with the corporation.
(Prior Code, § 120.015)
   (G)   Plate, emblems, and badges.
      (1)   Every person licensed as a junk dealer, before using any junk wagon
or causing the same to be used for the collection, transportation, or disposal
of any junk, shall obtain from the City Controller, for each junk wagon, a
license plate or other suitable emblem on which shall be stamped the words
“East Chicago-Junk” and the year.
      (2)   The person shall also, at the same time that the plate or emblem
for a junk wagon is obtained, procure from the City Controller a badge of metal
or suitable substitute approximately three inches in diameter for the driver of
each licensed junk wagon. The badge shall be provided with a pin or other
fastening and shall be worn in a conspicuous place on the outside of the coat.
      (3)   Every person licensed as a junk peddler under the provisions of
this subchapter who does not operate a junk store or junk yard and who is not
employed by a junk dealer shall be subject to all the requirements in respect
to license plates, emblems, and badges.
(Prior Code, § 120.016)
Penalty, see §
117.999
SECONDHAND DEALERS
§ 117.045 LICENSE.
   (A)   Required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
secondhand dealer or to purchase gold, silver, metals, and jewelry by going
from house to house or to carry on, operate, or conduct a secondhand store or
place of business where goods, wares, and merchandise are bought and sold at
secondhand without first having obtained a license therefor as provided in this
subchapter, provided, that the words “secondhand dealer” or “secondhand stores”
shall not include peddlers or hawkers, junk dealers, secondhand auto dealers,
or other dealers as defined and licensed by this code; provided further, that
the provisions of this subchapter shall not permit the sale of secondhand
clothing or other prohibited articles.
(Prior Code, § 120.080)
   (B)   Application. An application for a license for secondhand dealers or
secondhand stores shall be made in conformity with the general licensing
provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 120.081)
   (C)   Fee. The annual fee for secondhand dealers or secondhand stores shall
be an amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 120.082)
Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.046 BUSINESS LOCATIONS TO COMPLY WITH ZONING REGULATIONS.
   All locations for businesses engaged in the selling of secondhand articles
must be permitted under the provisions of the zoning regulations of this code
before the location shall be approved by the City Controller.
(Prior Code, § 120.083)
§ 117.047 RECORD OF PURCHASES.
   (A)   Every person who is a secondhand dealer or who operates or conducts a
secondhand store shall keep a record of all goods, articles, or things of value
purchased, giving a full description of the same, where purchased, with the
name of the maker, marks, number, or brand of any article so purchased; the
amount of money paid therefor, the hour and date of the sale, the name,
residence, and street number of the person selling the goods or article
together with a record of the age, color, height, weight, complexion, and style
of dress of the person so selling the article at the time of the sale. The
record shall be made as soon as possible after the sale is completed and shall
be written legibly and in the English language. No record shall be obliterated,
erased, or defaced.
   (B)   The records, as well as every article or thing of value purchased at
secondhand stores, shall at all reasonable times be open to the inspection of
any member of the police force when duly authorized.
(Prior Code, § 120.084)
§ 117.048 DAILY REPORTS TO POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of every person licensed under the provisions of this
subchapter, after the Chief of Police shall so require in writing, to make out
and deliver to the Chief of Police each day before the hour of 12:00 p.m. a
correct and legible copy from the records of all personal property or other
valuable articles or things purchased the preceding day. A separate report
shall be made for each transaction. The Chief may suspend, in writing, the
necessity for further reports.
(Prior Code, § 120.085) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.049 SALES.
   No property purchased by a licensee under this subchapter shall be resold or
removed from his or her place of business for a period of 24 hours after a copy
of the record has been delivered to the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 120.086) Penalty, see §
117.999
SCRAP METAL MERCHANTS
§ 117.060 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SCRAP METAL MERCHANT. Any entity (person, firm, company, partnership,
association, or corporation) who purchases products containing ferrous or
nonferrous metals for recycling or resale. Ferrous metals contain iron, for
example, mild steel, high-carbon steel, stainless steel, and iron. Non-ferrous
metals for example, aluminum, brass, and copper, or any other metal alloy
containing these materials.
(Prior Code, § 120.140) (Ord. 0-08-0027, passed 10-27-2008)
§ 117.061 PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Cash payments. For all purchases of scrap metal paid for in cash, the
scrap metal merchant shall obtain the following information from the seller of
the products containing ferrous or non-ferrous material:
      (1)   A complete and accurate description of all property taken,
purchased, or received by the merchant in the regular course of business;
      (2)   The date and time of the purchase;
      (3)   The correct legal name, date of birth, and place of residence,
including city and state;
      (4)   A photograph of the person;
      (5)   A copy of the driver’s license, or if not available, a copy of the
individual’s military identification, passport, or other approved state
identification number;
      (6)   License plate number of the vehicle delivering the material; and
      (7)   The amount paid for the property and the name of the employee
handling the transaction.
   (B)   Check payments to corporations or businesses.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) below, for all purchases of
scrap metal from a corporation or business and paid for by pre-numbered check
drawn on the regular bank account of the scrap metal merchant and made payable
to the legal name of the corporation or business, the scrap metal merchant
shall obtain and maintain on file, the following information from the seller of
the products containing ferrous or non-ferrous metals:
         (a)   A complete and accurate description of all property taken,
purchased, or received by the merchant in the regular course of business;
         (b)   The date and time of the delivery;
         (c)   The federal employer identification number of the payee on the
check (FEIN);
         (d)   The name and full address of the driver delivering the product;
         (e)   License plate number of the vehicle delivering the material; and
         (f)   The amount paid for the property and the name of the employee
handling the transaction.
      (2)   In the event the scrap metal is delivered in a vehicle belonging to
the scrap metal merchant and driven by an employee of the scrap metal merchant,
the scrap metal merchant shall only be required to maintain the information
required by divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(1)(b), and (B)(1)(f).
      (3)   In the event any of the above is not available and on file at the
scrap metal merchant’s office, the information obtained shall be the same as
required for a cash purchase.
      (4)   Checks may not be converted to cash by a scrap metal merchant or by
any related entity.
   (C)   Records.
      (1)   Every scrap metal merchant shall keep the information required in
divisions (A) and (B) above either in writing or in a retrievable electronic
format at the merchant’s place of business.
      (2)   The records shall be made at the time of the purchase of the
property and in no event later than close of the business day subsequent to the
time of purchase.
      (3)   Records required by this subchapter shall be maintained by the
scrap metal merchant at the merchant’s place of business for not less than two
years following the date of transaction.
      (3)   No purchases shall be made from persons not of legal age.
      (4)   The following types of property and/or transactions are not subject
to the record keeping requirements of this division:
         (a)   Recyclable food and beverage containers; and
         (b)   Transactions involving materials purchased directly from a
regulated public utility.
(Prior Code, § 120.141) (Ord. 0-08-0027, passed 10-27-2008) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.062 STOLEN PROPERTY.
   When a police officer has reasonable cause to believe that any property
received by a scrap metal merchant is stolen, the police officer may place a
hold notice upon the suspected stolen property. The identified property upon
which a hold notice has been placed must be held by the scrap metal merchant at
the merchant’s place of business for 60 calendar days unless released sooner by
authority of the Police Chief or his or her designee. After 60 calendar days,
unless other disposition is authorized by the Police Chief or his or her
designee, the hold is automatically released and scrap processor may dispose of
the property.
(Prior Code, § 120.142) (Ord. 0-08-0027, passed 10-27-2008) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.063 LAW ENFORCEMENT; RIGHT TO INSPECT.
   Every scrap metal merchant and every person employed by them in the conduct
of their business shall admit to any and every part of the business premises at
any time any law enforcement officer or other official designated by the Chief
of Police of the city to examine, photograph, or copy any goods, articles,
things, books, or other records on the premises to determine compliance with
this subchapter, and to search for and to place a hold upon pursuant to the
provisions of § 120.999(B) any article known or believed by the officer or
official to have been stolen.
(Prior Code, § 120.143) (Ord. 0-08-0027, passed 10-27-2008) Penalty, see §
117.999
GARAGE SALES
§ 117.075 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. A sale of household goods, wares, furniture, and/or clothes
conducted from residentially-zoned property. Only personal property can be
sold; no commercial items. What is commonly called a “yard sale” is intended to
be covered by this subchapter. No items to be sold shall be placed on sidewalks
or public property, including streets. There will be no street closures for a
GARAGE SALE.
(Ord. 13-0024, passed 9-9-2013)
§ 117.076 WHEN AND HOW PERMITTED.
   (A)   No garage sale shall be allowed from the same parcel of residential
property located in the city more than four times a year. The owner or tenant
of the property must pay to the City Controller the sum of an amount as set by
the city from time to time for each day of the garage sale. The days of the
week during which the sale may take place are restricted to Thursday, Friday,
Saturday, and/or Sunday. The hours of the sale are not early that 7:00 a.m. or
later than 5:00 p.m.
   (B)   Persons wishing to have a garage sale must first obtain a permit from
the Controller’s office upon payment of the required fees. The Controller’s
office should not accept a fee and issue a garage sale permit until the
applicant has been informed of the limited hours and other restrictions.
   (C)   Notices for garage and yard sales may not be posted on city property,
such as light poles, street signs, or utility poles. Illegally placed signs may
be removed and disposed of by the city. Signs may only be posted on the home
property.
   (D)   Community, district, or block garage sales (involving more than one
resident) shall pay the sum of an amount as set by the city from time to time
for each day for the entire group; applicant must disclose all the residential
addresses involved in the joint garage sale. Such larger group sales shall be
limited to twice a year and may not exceed three days for each sale (days are
restricted to Friday, Saturday, and/or Sunday).
   (E)   Violations of this provision may be enforced by the Building
Department and/or Police Department and each day constitutes a continuing
offense which may be abated by any lawful measure by the city.
(Ord. 13-0024, passed 9-9-2013) Penalty, see §
117.999
AUCTIONS
§ 117.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUCTION SELLER. Every person whose property is sold or offered for sale at
auction, except one whose property is sold or offered for sale by virtue of
legal process.
   AUCTIONEER. Every person who shall engage in the profession of conducting
auction sales or crying off property at auction, except those who act by virtue
of legal process. The term AUCTIONEER includes those who conduct an auction
sale or cry off the property of others.
   LEGAL PROCESS. Any writ, process, or order of any kind issued by any court.
   PROPERTY. Personal property of every kind but not real property, except
where a different meaning is specified.
(Prior Code, § 113.01)
§ 117.091 HOURS OF SALE.
   No personal property shall be sold or offered for sale at auction within the
city between sunset of each day and sunrise of the following day, and the
auction seller as well as the auctioneer shall be responsible for compliance
with this section at every auction sale.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.092 LOCATION OF SALE.
   No real or personal property shall be sold at auction or exposed for sale by
any auctioneer in any street, alley, or public place in the city.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.093 ATTRACTING ATTENTION TO SALE.
   No bellman, criers, instruments of music, signals, or any other means of
attracting the attention of the public, other than a sign or flag, shall be
employed or suffered or permitted to be used in connection with any auction
sale at or near any place of the sale or at or near any auction room.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.094 CONDITIONS OF SALE.
   It shall be the duty of every auctioneer before beginning any auction sale
of real or personal property to state fully the terms and conditions upon which
the sales will be made.
(Prior Code, § 113.05) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.095 PROPERTY FOR SALE; ANNOUNCEMENT OF DESCRIPTION.
   It shall be the duty of every auctioneer, who shall offer for sale real or
personal property of any kind whatever, to announce to the persons present,
before proceeding to sell the same, the character, quality, and description of
the property offered for sale.
(Prior Code, § 113.06) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.096 IDENTIFICATION TAGS; SALES BOOK.
   (A)   All property sold at auction within the city shall have attached
thereto a tag plainly marked in the English language stating fully and
truthfully the name of the article, the quality thereof, and whether the
article is genuine or imitation. The auction seller as well as the auctioneer
shall be responsible for full compliance with this section.
   (B)   At every auction sale within the city, there shall be kept a sale book
in which each purchaser shall, immediately after making a purchase, sign his or
her true name and address, opposite which the auctioneer shall write the name
of the article purchased as the same appears upon the tag and the sale price
thereof, and the article shall be delivered to the purchaser with the tag
intact and attached thereto.
(Prior Code, § 113.07) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.097 FALSE REPRESENTATIONS.
   No auctioneer or person who is present when any real or personal property is
offered for sale, shall knowingly, with intent to induce any person to purchase
the property or any part thereof, make any false representation or statement as
to the ownership or the character or quality of the property so offered for
sale or as to the property or circumstances of the owner or pretended owner of
the property.
(Prior Code, § 113.08) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.098 RETURN OF MISREPRESENTED GOODS.
   (A)   The purchaser at an auction sale of any personal property shall have
the right to return it to the auctioneer at any time within five days from the
day of sale, if it is not of the quality represented to him or her and the
auctioneer shall return to the purchaser the price of the article.
   (B)   It is declared to be unlawful for the place of sale or the place of
business of any auctioneer to have been closed at any time during the period of
five days for the purpose of avoiding any offer to return any article so sold.
(Prior Code, § 113.09) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.099 SUBSTITUTION OF ARTICLES.
   It is unlawful for any auctioneer to exhibit and offer for sale at auction
any article and induce its purchase by any bidder, or to substitute afterward
any article in lieu of that offered to any purchased by the bidder.
(Prior Code, § 113.10) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.100 FICTITIOUS BIDS.
   (A)   No auctioneer shall procure any person to make a fictitious bid at any
auction sale of real or personal property, or shall conspire with any person to
make a fictitious bid at any auction sale, nor shall any auctioneer himself or
herself fictitiously raise any bid at any auction sale.
   (B)   No person shall act as bidder or what is commonly known as a capper,
booster, or shiner at any auction or place, or offer or make any false bid to
buy or pretend to buy any article sold or offered for sale at any public
auction.
(Prior Code, § 113.11) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.101 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   In addition to other enforcement duties, the City Inspector of Weights and
Measures shall enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.12)
ALUMINUM PURCHASE RECORDATION
§ 117.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALUMINUM METALS. Any object constructed out of aluminum and includes items
such as aluminum siding, doors, downspouts, drains, poles, or items constructed
out of aluminum metals or aluminum alloys but excludes aluminum cans.
   SCRAP DEALER. Any individual, firm, corporation, or partnership engaged in a
business of purchasing and reselling metal either at a permanently established
place of business or in connection with a business of an itinerant nature,
including junk shops, junk yards, junk stores, auto wreckers, scrap metal
dealers or processors, salvage yards, collectors of or dealers in junk and junk
carts or trucks.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) (Ord. 3504, passed - -1989)
§ 117.116 RECORD OF PURCHASES; RETENTION AND FILING OF COPIES.
   (A)   Every scrap dealer in the city shall report in duplicate for each
purchase of aluminum metals the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the dealer;
      (2)   The date and place of each purchase;
      (3)   The name, address, age, driver’s license number, or Social Security
number of the person or persons from whom the aluminum metal was purchased;
      (4)   The motor vehicle licensed number of the vehicle or conveyance on
which the aluminum metal was delivered to the dealer;
      (5)   The price paid for the metal; and
      (6)   The description of the aluminum metal purchased including the
weight and what type of item it was.
   (B)   One copy of the completed notice shall be kept in a book or register
by the dealer and shall be retained for a period of two years. The book or
register shall be made available for inspection by any law enforcement official
at any time. Within 24 hours from the date of purchase, one copy of the report
shall be mailed to the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) (Ord. 3504, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.117 PURCHASES TO BE KEPT SEPARATE AND IDENTIFIABLE.
   While every scrap dealer shall hold each purchase of aluminum metal at his
or her regular place of business, he or she shall hold it separate and apart so
that it is readily identifiable from all other purchases. During the period, a
dealer may not change the form of the aluminum metal and shall permit any law
enforcement officer to make inspection of the aluminum metal purchased.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) (Ord. 3504, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.118 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of §§
117.116 and
117.117 do not apply to purchases from persons, firms, or corporations
regularly engaged in the business of manufacturing or selling aluminum metals
should the persons, firms, or corporations at the time of purchase or sale,
provide the dealer with a bill of sale or other written evidence of title to
the aluminum metal. The sale of used aluminum cans which contain beverages and/
or foods is not required to be reported.
(Prior Code, § 112.04) (Ord. 3504, passed - -1989) Penalty, see §
117.999
COAL OR COKE DEALERS
§ 117.130 RETAIL COAL OR COKE DEALER DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RETAIL COAL OR COKE DEALER. Any person selling or offering to sell,
delivering or offering to deliver coal or coke in less than carload lots.
(Prior Code, § 117.01)
§ 117.131 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. No persons shall engage in the business of a retail coal or
coke dealer without first having obtained a license to do so.
(Prior Code, § 117.02)
   (B)   Fee; nontransferable. 
      (1)   The annual fee for a retail coal or coke dealer shall be an amount
as set by the city from time to time.
      (2)   A separate license shall be required for each and every separate
location.
      (3)   The entire fee shall be paid in advance and shall not be
transferable or prorated.
(Prior Code, § 117.03)
SELF SERVICE LAUNDRIES
§ 117.145 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SELF SERVICE LAUNDRIES and LAUNDROMAT. Any establishment in which coin-
operated facilities are available for washing clothes or for drying clothes or
for the dry cleaning of clothes and which is open and available to the general
public for use.
(Prior Code, § 125.01) (Ord. 3142, passed - -1977)
§ 117.146 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. 
      (1)   It is unlawful to establish or operate any self service laundry or
laundromat in the city without first having secured a license therefor as
herein provided.
      (2)   Applications for the licenses shall comply with the general
provisions relating to applications for licenses and permits.
(Prior Code, § 125.02)
   (B)   Fees; Health Department certification. The annual fee for licenses for
self service laundries and laundromats shall be the sum of an amount as set by
the city from time to time and no license shall be issued except upon payment
of the full fee and a certification from the Health Department that the
premises used are in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Prior Code, § 125.03)
(Ord. 3142, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.147 PERMITTED BUSINESS HOURS.
   It is unlawful to keep any such establishment open for business between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. (prevailing time).
(Prior Code, § 125.04) (Ord. 3142, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.148 EQUIPMENT INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Installation of all equipment in establishments shall be in conformity with
the ordinances relating to the installations.
(Prior Code, § 125.05) (Ord. 3142, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.149 CLEANLINESS REQUIREMENTS FOR PREMISES.
   Premises used shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and must be
thoroughly swept at least every 24 hours and the outside sidewalks and adjacent
areas kept clear of litter and trash.
(Prior Code, § 125.06) (Ord. 3142, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.150 TOILET FACILITIES.
   (A)   Adequate toilet facilities conveniently located shall be provided for
customers of the establishment and shall be posted as such.
   (B)   The toilet facilities must have a minimum of at least one water closet
and one lavatory and be supplied with towels, either paper or cloth, toilet
paper, and soap.
   (C)   The doors of all toilet rooms shall be self closing and capable of
being locked.
   (D)   Toilet rooms shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, in good
repair, and well lighted and ventilated.
(Prior Code, § 125.07) (Ord. 3142, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.151 INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Department or other official designated
by the Mayor to inspect or cause to be inspected every establishment licensed
under this chapter at least weekly. Any violations under the terms of this
chapter shall be reported to the police and a sworn complaint filed to be
prosecuted in the manner described for violations of city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 125.08) (Ord. 3142, passed - -1977) Penalty, see §
117.999
PUBLIC MOVERS
§ 117.165 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC MOVER. Any person owning or operating any moving van, wagon, truck,
or other vehicle of any kind who shall move or transport for hire or reward
household goods and furniture or other furniture fixtures or stock from one
place to another place in the city; provided, that public movers shall not
include persons engaged in moving solely for one person who are under contract
for a period of 30 days or more for the handling of merchandise for any
mercantile or manufacturing establishments located in the city and shall be
otherwise and exclusively engaged in the handling thereof for the period under
the contract.
(Prior Code, § 122.01)
§ 117.166 VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION.
   Each van, vehicle, or conveyance used by a public mover in carrying on his
or her business shall have the name and address of the public mover painted or
posted conspicuously upon both sides. The license plate shall be attached to
the vehicle in a conspicuous place.
(Prior Code, § 122.02) Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.167 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. No person shall carry on the business of a public mover
without first having obtained a license to do so.
(Prior Code, § 122.03)
   (B)   Application. Any person desiring to obtain a license as a public mover
shall make an application to the City Controller in conformity with the general
licensing provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 122.04)
   (C)   Fee per vehicle. The annual license fee for each van or other
conveyance or vehicle used by a public mover shall be an amount as set by the
city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 122.05)
   (D)   Bond.
      (1)   Before a license shall be issued under this chapter, the applicant
shall file an approved surety bond, undertaking, or policy of insurance payable
to the city in the sum of an amount as set by the city from time to time, for
the use and benefit of the city and for persons for whom the applicant shall do
moving and for others, conditioned for the faithful performance of his or her
duties as a public mover and for the performance of all duties required by law
relating to the safe and prompt delivery to the proper person of all household
goods, furniture, office furniture, fixtures, or personal property entrusted to
the public mover for moving and as security for the payment to the proper
person of all damages to real or personal property caused by the mover and for
which he or she shall be responsible by law.
      (2)   The bond or policy shall be kept in full force and effect at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 122.06)
   (E)   Issuance. The City Controller shall, after compliance by the applicant
with the requirements of law and this code, issue to the applicant a numbered
license and license plate for each van, vehicle, or conveyance in conformity
with the general licensing provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 122.07)
   (F)   Transferability. No license issued under this subchapter shall be
assignable or transferable.
(Prior Code, § 122.08)
Penalty, see §
117.999
§ 117.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.999.
   (B)   Scrap metal merchants.
      (1)   Any scrap metal merchant who shall conduct business in violation of
any of the provisions of §§
117.060 through
117.063 shall be subject to a fine of not more than an amount as set by the
city from time to time per violation. Every transaction conducted by a scrap
metal merchant in violation of the provisions of §§
117.060 through
117.063 shall be deemed a separate violation.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties described in this section the city may
revoke any occupancy permit or business license issued for the business
premises of the scrap metal merchant.
(Prior Code, § 120.999)
   (C)   Scrap dealers. A scrap dealer who fails to comply with §§
117.060 through
117.063 is subject to a fine of up to an amount as set by the city from time to
time. Each day that a scrap dealer so fails to comply constitutes a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 112.99)
   (D)   Self-service laundries. Upon conviction of violation of any of the
terms of §§
117.145 through
117.151, the license of the establishment may be revoked and suspended, to
which may be added a fine of up to an amount as set by the city from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 125.99)
(Ord. 3142, passed - -1977; Ord. 3504, passed - -1989; Ord. 0-08-0027, passed
10-27-2008)
CHAPTER 118: TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
118.001   Definitions
   
118.002   Inspections
   
118.003   Minors
Licenses
   
118.015   License required
   
118.016   License and permit application requirements
   
118.017   Licensing procedures
   
118.018   Denial of application; right to public hearing
   
118.019   Display of license
   
118.020   Establishment and renewal
   
118.021   Fees
   
118.022   Transfer of license
   
118.023   Suspension and revocation of license
Operator Requirements
   
118.035   Operator training responsibilities
   
118.036   Operator general responsibilities
   
118.037   Operator policies
   
118.038   Minimum training, certification, and license requirements
   
118.039   Patron records
   
118.040   Condition, illness, and/or infections
   
118.041   Hand washing and skin preparation
Materials and Environment
   
118.055   Personal protective equipment
   
118.056   Equipment
   
118.057   Needles
   
118.058   Reusable equipment
   
118.059   Dyes or pigments
   
118.060   Work environment
   
118.061   Infectious waste containment
   
118.062   Treatment and transport of infectious waste
 
   
118.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 118.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOOD. Human blood.
   BLOOD BORNE PATHOGENS. Pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human
blood and can cause disease in humans. These PATHOGENS, include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   The hepatitis B virus;
      (2)   The hepatitis C virus; and
      (3)   The human immunodeficiency virus.
   BOARD. The City Board of Public Safety.
   BODY PIERCER. Any person who performs body piercing on an individual.
   BODY PIERCING. Any penetration in or through any skin or mucous membrane on
the human body with or by a needle, pin, or other sharp object.
   BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT. Any room or space where a body piercer performs
any body piercing acts on an individual or where body piercing activities take
place.
   CITY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Department of Health of the city.
   CLEANED. Removal of all visible dust, soil, or any other foreign material.
   CONTAMINATED. The presence of reasonably anticipated presence of blood or
other potentially infectious materials (OPIM) on an item or surface.
   DECONTAMINATED. The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate,
or destroy blood borne pathogens on a surface or item which does not require
sterilization to the point where they are no longer capable of transmitting
infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling,
use, or disposal.
   HBV. The hepatitis B virus.
   HCV. The hepatitis C virus.
   HIV. The human immunodeficiency virus.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. Waste that epidemiologic evidence indicates is capable of
transmitting a dangerous communicable disease. INFECTIOUS WASTE includes, but
is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Contaminated sharps or contaminated objects that could potentially
become contaminated sharps;
      (2)   Infectious biological cultures, infectious associated biological
and infectious agent stock;
      (3)   Pathological waste;
      (4)   Blood and blood products in liquid and semi-liquid form;
      (5)   Carcasses, body parts, blood, and body fluids in liquid and
semiliquid form, and bedding of laboratory animals; and
      (6)   Other waste that has been intermingled with infectious waste.
   MINOR. An individual who is less than 18 years of age.
   OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS MATERIALS (OPIM).
      (1)   Human body fluids as follows:
         (a)   Semen;
         (b)   Vaginal secretions;
         (c)   Cerebrospinal fluid;
         (d)   Synovial fluid;
         (e)   Pleural fluid;
         (f)   Pericardial fluid;
         (g)   Peritoneal fluid;
         (h)   Amniotic fluid;
         (i)   Saliva in dental procedures;
         (j)   Any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with blood; and
         (k)   Any body fluids that is difficult or impossible to differentiate
between other body fluids.
      (2)   Any unfixed tissue or organ, other than intact skin, from a human,
either living or dead.
      (3)   HIV-containing cell or tissue cultures, and HIV or HBV -containing
culture medium or other solutions; and blood, organs, or other tissues from
experimental animals infected with HIV or HBY.
   PARENTERAL. Piercing the mucous membranes or the skin barrier through such
events as needle sticks, human bites, cuts, or abrasions.
   PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT. Specialized clothing or equipment worn for
protection against contact with blood or OPIM.
   SECURE AREA. An area that is designated and maintained to prevent the entry
of unauthorized persons.
   SEMI-LIQUID BLOOD, BLOOD PRODUCTS. Blood, blood products that have
intermediate fluid properties and are capable of flowing in a manner similar to
liquid.
   STERILIZE. The use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all
microbial life, including highly resistant bacterial endosperms.
   STORE. The containment of infectious waste in such a manner as not to
constitute collection, treatment, transport, or disposal.
   TATTOO.
      (1)   Any indelible design, letter, scroll, figure, symbol, or other mark
placed with the aid of needles or other instruments; or
      (2)   Any design, letter, scroll, figure, or symbol done by scarring upon
or under the skin.
   TATTOO ARTIST. Any person who provides a tattoo to an individual.
   TATTOO ESTABLISHMENT. Any room or space where a tattoo artist provides
tattoos to individuals or where the tattooing activities take place.
   TATTOO OPERATOR. Any person who controls, operates, conducts, manages, or
owns any tattoo establishment.
   UNIVERSAL PRECAUTIONS. An approach to infection control in which all human
blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
for HIV, HBV, HeV, and other blood borne pathogens.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 118.002 INSPECTIONS.
   All licensees under this chapter shall permit the inspection of their
business premises at all reasonable times by duly authorized representatives of
the city or their designees, upon the showing of proper credentials by the
inspectors. The denial of inspection privileges shall constitute grounds for
revocation of the license.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.003 MINORS.
   No minor shall receive a tattoo or body piercing without the presence of a
parent or guardian and written permission from both parents or guardians, if
not deceased.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
LICENSES
§ 118.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, maintain, operate, or cause to be conducted,
maintained, or operated, any tattoo and/or body piercing establishment within
the corporate limits of the city without first being licensed under this
chapter.
   (B)   No tattoo artist, body piercer, employee of a tattoo or body piercing
establishment, or person acting on behalf of a tattoo or body piercing
establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye, mucous
membrane, or potential contact with blood shall do business within the
corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a permit under this
chapter.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.016 LICENSE AND PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   License application requirements. A person or organization shall apply
for a tattoo and/or body piercing establishment license with the City
Controller on forms prescribed by the Board. The application shall contain, in
addition to other information required by the Board, the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant. If the
applicant is a partnership, the application shall state the names, addresses,
and telephone numbers of all persons instituting such partnership. If the
applicant is a corporation, the application shall state its principle place of
business, the full name of such corporation, the state under whose laws it is
incorporated, the full names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all officers,
directors, and manager thereof;
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of all employees, agents,
or individuals who will be working at the business location;
      (3)   The applicant’s business address and telephone number;
      (4)   Qualifications of the applicant, or if a corporation, of the
manager, officers, or directors in operating, maintaining, or conducting a
tattoo and/or body piercing establishment, and dates and locations of any
previous operations, if any;
      (5)   Written documentation indicating that the applicant has
successfully completed the training program required under the requirements of
the State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s blood borne pathogen
standard;
      (6)   A statement of prior criminal record, if any, of applicant, or in
case of a corporation, its officers, directors, manager, or stockholders and
details relating to any such prior criminal record;
      (7)   The number of work stations at the business location;
      (8)   The tattoo and/or body piercing establishment’s hours of operation;
and
      (9)   Verification under oath that under the penalties for perjury, all
information and representations contained in the application are true and
accurate.
   (B)   Certificate of inspection. Each applicant shall obtain a certificate
of inspection from the City Health Department, indicating that his or her
establishment has been inspected and is in compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and shall submit such certificate with its application to the
Board for review and action.
   (C)   Approval. Each application must receive approval from the Department
of City Planning and the City Fire Department indicating that the location of
the business complies with local zoning requirements and with the Fire Code.
   (D)   Permit application requirements. Each applicant for a permit to
provide tattoos or perform body piercing shall make application with the City
Controller on forms prescribed by the Board which shall include, in addition to
other information required by the Board, the following information:
      (1)   Name of applicant, including previous names or alias, if any;
      (2)   Place and date of birth;
      (3)   Present residence address;
      (4)   Previous residence addresses during the past five years;
      (5)   For whom applicant intends to work;
      (6)   Nature of work applicant intends to perform;
      (7)   A description of the applicant’s qualifications, including dates
and names of previous employers, if any;
      (8)   Details relating to any prior criminal record, if any; and
      (9)   Written documentation that the applicant has successfully completed
the training program required under the requirements of the State Occupational
Safety and Health Administration’s blood borne pathogen standard.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.017 LICENSING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the recommendations from the City Planning Department
and the Fire Department, the Secretary of the Board shall submit to the Board
for its review and action a copy of the application, any reports, and any other
documents filed by the applicant The Secretary of the Board shall set a date
for a public hearing on the application with the Board and shall notify the
applicant of the date and time of the hearing. The applicant shall be present
at the hearing and be available to answer any questions propounded by the Board
with regard to the proposed business activity.
   (B)   No license shall be issued by the Board if it shall be determined that
the proposed operation by the applicant will probably constitute a menace to
the public health and welfare. No license shall be issued by the Board in the
event that it is determined that the applicant, or in the case of a
corporation, the officers, directors, or manager have previously been connected
with any tattoo and/or body piercing establishment whose license has heretofore
been revoked or if the premises sought to be so licensed failed to comply in
any manner with the regulations, ordinances, and laws applicable thereto.
Employment by the applicant of any person who practices tattoo artistry or body
piercing and is not in possession of a valid permit under this chapter shall be
grounds for the denial of an application or for its revocation.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued by the Board if it is determined that an
applicant has not met all the requirements established under this chapter and
will probably constitute a menace to the public health and welfare.
   (D)   All applicants shall file with the City Controller within 30 days of
their application’s approval by the Board a certificate of insurance indicating
coverage against all public liability in the amount of not less than an amount
as set by the city from time to time from anyone occurrence. Such insurance
policy shall be used to compensate any and all persons who may have any claims
or injuries, including death, arising out of or resulting from any tattooing or
body piercing activities performed by a licensed individual at a business
location. Any insurance policy filed with the city shall contain the following
provision: “The city, through the Office of the City Controller, shall be given
at least 15 days notice prior to the effective date of the cancellation or
material change of this policy.”
   (E)   Upon favorable action by the Board of Public Safety and the filing of
all required documents and payment of all fees, the City Controller’s Office
shall issue a tattoo establishment and/or body piercing establishment license
to the applicant.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.018 DENIAL OF APPLICATION; RIGHT TO PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   If the Board of Public Safety denies an application for a
license or permit, it shall notify the applicant of its decision and the
grounds therefore by certified mail, return receipt requested. Within five days
after the receipt of the notification, the applicant may file a written request
for a public hearing on the application, together with exceptions to the
grounds on which the Board based its denial of application. Upon the filing of
the request, the Board shall fix a time and place for the hearing, which shall
be within 15 days after the request is filed, and shall notify the applicant
thereof.
      (2)   At the hearing, the applicant may present evidence and make
arguments in support of his or her application and exceptions. Any interested
person may be allowed to participate in the hearing to present evidence in
opposition to the application and exceptions.
      (3)   Within ten days after the conclusion of the hearing, the Board
shall render a written decision to affirm, modify, or reverse its original
decision.
   (B)   A copy of the decision shall be served by certified mail, return
receipt requested, upon the applicant.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 118.019 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The person or organization, which is issued a license pursuant to this
chapter to operate a tattoo and/or body piercing establishment, shall display
such license in a conspicuous location near the entry of the facilities or
premises.
   (B)   The license and information concerning the contact person shall remain
posted in the business establishment throughout the duration of the time for
which the license was issued.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.020 ESTABLISHMENT AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   All licenses or permits issued under this chapter shall expire on
December 31 of each year.
   (B)   Each licensed individual shall renew his or her license or permit on
an annual basis according to the application requirements and procedures set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 118.021 FEES.
   (A)   The annual license fee for a tattoo and/or body piercing establishment
license shall be an amount as set by the city from time to time.
   (B)   There shall be no permit fee for a tattoo artist and/or body piercer.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 118.022 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued under this chapter shall be deemed personal to the licensee
and shall not be assigned or transferred to any other person.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 118.023 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for revocation. Any license or permit issued under this
chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any rules and
regulations either now or hereafter adopted pursuant hereto, or of any laws of
the state;
      (2)   Permitting, aiding, or abetting the commission of any illegal act,
or committing or attempting to commit any illegal act, on premises licensed
under this chapter;
      (3)   Tattooing or body piercing any person under the influence of
alcoholic or controlled substances; and
      (4)   Engaging in acts, conduct, or practices detrimental to the health,
safety, or welfare of any person in the city.
   (B)   Procedures. If the Board of Public Safety has reason to believe that a
licensee or permitted has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, the
Board shall immediately suspend the license or permit and give the licensee or
permitted written notice in person or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, of the suspension and of a hearing to be held within 14 days of the
suspension to determine whether or not the license should be revoked. This
notice must contain a statement of the facts on which the Board has acted in
suspending the license. At the hearing, the licensee or permitted, and any
other interested person shall have the right to present evidence showing cause
why the license should not be revoked by the Board for violation of the
provisions of this chapter or other applicable ordinances or statutes. If,
after the hearing, the Board finds that the provisions of this chapter or other
applicable ordinances or statutes have been violated, it shall send the
licensee or permitted within ten days after the hearing a written statement of
the facts on which it bases its findings and shall immediately revoke the
license. If, after the hearing, the Board finds that the provisions of this
chapter or other applicable ordinances or statutes have not been violated, it
shall send the licensee or permitted within ten days after the hearing a
written statement canceling the suspension of the license and stating that no
violation of the ordinance or statute has occurred.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS
§ 118.035 OPERATOR TRAINING RESPONSIBILITIES.
   All operators of tattoo or body piercing establishments shall comply within
the following training responsibilities:
   (A)   Ensure that the training described in the State Occupational Safety
and Health Administration’s blood borne pathogens standard is provided to all
tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo or body
piercing establishment or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo or body
piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye,
mucous membrane, or parental contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Ensure that training on the handling of infectious waste is provided
to all tattoo artists and body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo or body
piercing establishment or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo or body
piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin, eye,
mucous membrane, or parental contact with blood or OPIM;
   (C)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (A) above is
maintained, as required under the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s blood borne pathogens standard of an individual’s
participation in the training that is provided. The Board, or its duly
authorized agent or designee shall make the record available for inspection
upon request; and
   (D)   Ensure that a record of training described in division (B) above is
maintained.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.036 OPERATOR GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   All operators of any tattoo and/or body piercing establishment shall
ensure that tattoo artists or body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo and/
or body piercing establishment, or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo and/or
body piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin,
eye, mucous membrane, or parental contact with blood are provided to personal
protective equipment and expendables needed to implement the precautions
required by this chapter and the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s blood borne pathogens standard.
   (B)   All operators of any tattoo and/or body piercing establishment shall
require tattoo artists or body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo and/or
body piercing establishment or anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo and/or
body piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for skin,
eye, mucous membrane, or parental contact with blood to provide an evidence of
compliance with the universal precautions education requirements contained in §
118.038.
   (C)   All operators of any tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment shall
display, or make available to the public, a description of his or her
compliance with the requirements contained in division (D) below.
   (D)   All operators of any tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment shall
display, or make available to the public, written materials prepared or
approved by the city or its designee explaining universal precautions and
patrons rights under this chapter. These materials shall include information on
how to report violations of universal precautions and shall include information
regarding the City Health Department’s duties to investigate.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.037 OPERATOR POLICIES.
   All operators of any tattoo and/or body piercing establishment shall develop
a written policy in compliance with this chapter and the requirements of the
State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s blood borne pathogen
standard that:
   (A)   Requires the use of universal precautions when performing tattooing
and any activity or duty that includes any reasonably anticipated skin, eye,
mucous membrane, or parental contact with blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Includes the safe handling of infectious waste; and
   (C)   Provides sanctions, including discipline and dismissal, if warranted,
against employees for failure to use universal precautions and/or handle
infectious waste safely.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.038 MINIMUM TRAINING, CERTIFICATION, AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All tattoo artists and/or body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo
and/or body piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parental contact with blood or OPIM shall
complete the training program which is required under the requirements of the
State Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s blood borne pathogen
standard. The programs under this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   A blood borne pathogen-training session provided by the operator
meeting the requirements under the State Occupational Safety and Health
Administration’s blood borne pathogens standard.
      (2)   Any blood borne pathogen continuing education program accredited by
a health care licensing entity.
   (B)   All tattoo artists and/or body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo
and/or body piercing establishment, and anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo
and/or body piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye mucous membrane, or potential contact with blood or OPIM must be
trained in the establishment’s policies on the handling of infectious waste.
   (C)   All tattoo artists and/or body piercers, anyone employed by the tattoo
and/or body piercing establishment, and anyone acting on behalf of the tattoo
and/or body piercing establishment who has a reasonably anticipated risk for
skin, eye mucous membrane, or potential contact with blood or OPIM shall
provide written evidence from the establishment operator stating that all
requirements under this chapter have been met. Then an application for an
artist’s license may be obtained from the city.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 118.039 PATRON RECORDS.
   (A)   Records of each patron shall be maintained for seven years.
   (B)   Each record shall include the following:
      (1)   Patron’s name;
      (2)   Address;
      (3)   Age;
      (4)   A copy of a state issued identification with photo and age;
      (5)   Date tattooed;
      (6)   Design of the tattoo;
      (7)   Location of the tattoo on the patron’s body; and
      (8)   The name of the tattoo artist who performed the work.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.040 CONDITION, ILLNESS, AND/OR INFECTIONS.
   (A)   Tattoo artists or body piercers who are experiencing symptoms of acute
disease which include, but are not limited to, diarrhea, vomiting, fever, rash,
productive cough, jaundice, or draining (or open) skin infections, boils,
impetigo, or scabies shall refrain from providing tattoos or performing any
body piercing.
   (B)   Inquiry shall be made, and anyone giving a history of recent jaundice,
hepatitis, or AIDS/HIV shall not be tattooed or body pierced.
   (C)   No person, customer, or patron having any skin infection or other
disease of the skin or any communicable disease shall be tattooed or body
pierced. All infections resulting from the practice of tattooing or body
piercing which the operator knows shall promptly be reported to the city’s
Health Department and the Board by the operator of the tattoo and/or body
piercing, and the infected client shall be referred to a physician.
   (D)   No tattooing or body piercing shall be done on skin surfaces that has
a rash, pimples, and boils or manifests any evidence of unhealthy conditions.
   (E)   No tattooing or body piercing on any person, customer, or patron who
is deemed under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.041 HAND WASHING AND SKIN PREPARATION.
   (A)   Hand washing facilities shall be readily accessible in the same room
where tattooing is provided.
   (B)   Hands shall be washed with soap and running water immediately before
putting on gloves and after removal of gloves or other personal protective
equipment.
   (C)   Only single-use towels shall be used.
   (D)   The area to be tattooed or body pierced shall first be thoroughly
washed with warm water containing an antiseptic liquid soap. A single-use
sterile article shall be used to scrub the area.
   (E)   After shaving and before tattooing or body piercing has begun, a
solution of 70 alcohol shall be applied to the area with a sterile single-use
article.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
MATERIALS AND ENVIRONMENT
§ 118.055 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
   Appropriate personal protective equipment shall be worn as follows:
   (A)   A clean protective clothing layer shall be worn whenever there is a
reasonably anticipated risk of contamination of clothing by blood or OPIM;
   (B)   Masks in combination with eye protection devices, such as goggles or
glasses with solid side shield, or chin length face shield, shall be worn
whenever splashes, spray, splatter, or droplets of blood or OPIM may be
generated and eye, nose, or mouth contamination can be reasonably anticipated;
   (C)   Disposable gloves shall be worn during the tattooing process. Gloves
shall be changed and properly disposed of each time there is an interruption in
the application of the tattoo or piercing of the body, when the gloves become
torn or punctured, or whenever the ability to function as a barrier is
compromised. Disposable gloves shall not be reused; and
   (D)   Gloves shall be worn when decontaminating environmental surfaces and
equipment.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.056 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The tattoo artist shall only use a single-use razor to shave the area
to be tattooed.
   (B)   All stencils shall be properly disposed of after a single use. If the
design is drawn directly onto the skin, it shall be applied with a single-use
article only.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.057 NEEDLES.
   The tattoo artist or body piercer shall only use single-use needles that are
individually packaged and sterilized prior to use. Contaminated needles shall
be discarded in sharps containers immediately after use and shall not be bent
or broken or otherwise manipulated by hand.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.058 REUSABLE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Heating procedures capable of sterilization must be used when heat
stable, no disposable equipment is sterilized.
   (B)   Records must be maintained to document the following:
      (1)   Duration of sterilization technique;
      (2)   Determination of effective sterility, such as use of a biological
indicator, is performed monthly; and
      (3)   Equipment is maintained as recommended by the owner’s manual and
proof is available that the owner’s manual recommendations are reviewed
monthly.
   (C)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall not be stored or processed in a
manner that requires any person to reach by hand into the containers where
these sharp items have been placed.
   (D)   Reusable contaminated equipment shall be placed in puncture resistant
containers, labeled with the biohazard symbol, leak proof on both sides and
bottom, and stored in a manner that does not require reaching by hand into the
container where the equipment is stored until cleaning prior to sterilization.
   (E)   Contaminated reusable equipment shall be effectively cleaned prior to
sterilization.
   (F)   Reusable tubes shall be effectively cleaned and sterilized before
reuse.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.059 DYES OR PIGMENTS.
   (A)   All dyes or pigments used in tattooing shall be from professional
suppliers specifically providing dyes or pigments for the tattooing of human
skin.
   (B)   In preparing dyes or pigments to be used by tattoo artists, only
nontoxic sterile materials shall be used. Single-use or individual portions of
dyes or pigments in clean, sterilized containers shall be used for each patron.
   (C)   After tattooing, the remaining unused dye or pigment in single-use or
individual containers shall be discarded along with the container.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.060 WORK ENVIRONMENT.
   (A)   No tattooing or body piercing shall be conducted in any room used as
living quarters or in any room, which opens directly into living or sleeping
quarters.
   (B)   Live animals shall be excluded from areas where tattooing or body
piercing is being conducted. This exclusion does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Patrol dogs accompanying security or police officers;
      (2)   Guide dogs accompanying the following:
         (a)   Blind persons;
         (b)   Partially blind persons;
         (c)   Physically disabled persons;
         (d)   Guide dog trainers; and
         (e)   Persons with impaired hearing.
   (C)   Eating, drinking, smoking, or applying cosmetics shall not be allowed
in work areas where there is a likelihood of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (D)   Food and drink shall not be kept in areas where there is a reasonably
anticipated risk of exposure to blood or OPIM.
   (E)   All equipment and environmental surfaces shall be cleaned and
decontaminated after contact with blood or OPIM.
   (F)   Environmental surfaces and equipment not requiring sterilization,
which has been contaminated by blood, shall be cleaned and decontaminated.
   (G)   All work surfaces shall be non-absorbent, easily cleanable, smooth,
and free of breaks, open seams, cracks, chips, pits, and similar imperfections.
   (H)   Disinfectant solutions shall be:
      (1)   A hospital grade, tuberculocidal Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) registered disinfectant; or
      (2)   Sodium hypochlorite 0.5 concentration, by volume (common household
bleach in 10 concentration in water); the solution shall be dated and shall not
be used if it is more than 24 hours old.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.061 INFECTIOUS WASTE CONTAINMENT.
   (A)   Contaminated disposable needles or instruments shall be stored in
leak-resistant, puncture-resistant containers; tightly sealed to prevent
expulsion; labeled with the biohazard symbol; and effectively treated in
accordance with this rule prior to being stored in an unsecured area and sent
for final disposal.
   (B)   Infectious waste that is not contaminated sharps or objects that could
potentially become contaminated sharps shall be placed in containers that meet
the following requirements:
      (1)   Impervious to moisture;
      (2)   Sufficient strength and thickness to prevent expulsion;
      (3)   Secured to prevent leakage expulsion;
      (4)   Labeled with the biohazard symbol; and
      (5)   Effectively treated in accordance with this rule prior to being
placed in an unsecured area and sent for final disposal.
   (C)   If infectious waste is stored prior to final disposal, all persons
subject to this rule shall store infectious waste in a secure area that:
      (1)   Is locked or otherwise secured to eliminate access by or exposure
to the general public;
      (2)   Affords protection from adverse environmental conditions and
vermin; and
      (3)   Has a prominently displayed biohazard symbol.
   (D)   Infectious waste shall be stored in a manner that preserves the
integrity of the container, and is not conducive to rapid microbial growth and
putrefaction.
   (E)   Disinfect reusable containers for infectious waste each time that they
are emptied, unless the surfaces of the reusable containers have been protected
from contamination by disposable liners, bags, or other devices that are
removed with the infectious waste.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013)
§ 118.062 TREATMENT AND TRANSPORT OF INFECTIOUS WASTE.
   (A)   All operators of any tattoo establishment and/or body piercing
establishment shall ensure that infectious waste is either treated on-site in
accordance with this rule or transported off-site for treatment in accordance
with this rule.
   (B)   A treatment is effective if it reduces the pathogenic qualities of
infectious waste for safe handling, is designed for the specific waste
involved, and is carried out in a manner consistent with this rule. Effective
treatment may include:
      (1)   Incineration in an incinerator designed to accommodate infectious
waste;
      (2)   Steam sterilization;
      (3)   Chemical disinfecting under circumstances where safe handling of
the waste is assured;
      (4)   Thermal inactivation;
      (5)   Irradiation; or
      (6)   Discharge in a sanitary sewer or septic system that is properly
installed and operating in accordance with state and local laws.
   (C)   All persons subject to this rule shall:
      (1)   Transport infectious waste in a manner that reasonably protects
waste haulers and the public from contracting a dangerous communicable disease;
and
      (2)   Effectively treat infectious waste in accordance with this rule
before it is compacted.
   (D)   All operators shall ensure that infectious waste effectively treated
or not is transported off-site in compliance with 410 I.A.C. 1-3.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013) Penalty, see §
118.999
§ 118.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation which violates or disregards any of the
provisions of this chapter in any manner whatsoever shall be fined an amount as
set by the city from time to time.
(Ord. 13-0001, passed 2-11-2013)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
134.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
      
135.   WEAPONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC OFFICERS AND GOVERNMENT
Section
   
130.001   Tampering with fire or police signal systems and municipal electric
wires
   
130.002   Communicating with prisoners in jail; authorization required
   
130.003   Impersonating officers or employees
   
130.004   Impersonating police officers or firefighters
   
130.005   Abusing police officers
   
130.006   Disturbing public library
   
130.007   Extinguishing street lights or traffic signals
   
130.008   United States Flag
 
   
130.999   Penalty
§ 130.001 TAMPERING WITH FIRE OR POLICE SIGNAL SYSTEMS AND MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC
WIRES.
   (A)   No person, unless duly authorized, shall open any signal box, unless
it be to give an alarm of fire or to communicate with the police on necessary
business; nor shall any person break, cut, injure, deface, derange, or in any
manner meddle or interfere with any signal box or the fire or police alarms or
radio systems or with any municipal electric wires, poles, conduits, or
apparatus.
   (B)   No person shall deface or injure or write or paint on any pole used to
supply current to the city communications system or on any pole which is part
of the system.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.002 COMMUNICATING WITH PRISONERS IN JAIL; AUTHORIZATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall stand, loiter, or stroll in front of or around a city jail
and converse or communicate with prisoners confined in the jail, through the
windows or otherwise, without proper authorization.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.003 IMPERSONATING OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES.
   It is unlawful for any person to represent himself or herself falsely to be
an officer or employee of the city or, without being duly authorized, to
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions, or powers of the
officers or employees.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.004 IMPERSONATING POLICE OFFICERS OR FIREFIGHTERS.
   It is unlawful for any person not a police officer or firefighter of the
city to wear a star or any badge resembling the same. No person who is not a
police officer or firefighter of the city shall falsely represent himself or
herself to be a member of the police or fire force or shall, with intent to
deceive, use, or imitate any of the signs, signals, or devices used by the
police or fire force. No person other than a police officer of the city shall
wear a uniform in any public place, at a time, which is similar to or which is
not easily distinguishable from the office police uniform adopted for the city
by the Board of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.005 ABUSING POLICE OFFICERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to abuse or use any abusive language to or
enter into any altercation with any police officer of the city while the police
officer shall be in the discharge of his or her duties as a police officer or
while the latter is carrying out any order of any superior officer of the city.
(Prior Code, § 130.05) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.006 DISTURBING PUBLIC LIBRARY.
   No person shall talk in a loud or boisterous manner or make any unnecessary
noise or disturb the quiet of any public library.
(Prior Code, § 130.06) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.007 EXTINGUISHING STREET LIGHTS OR TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   It is unlawful for any person, without proper authority, to put out or
extinguish any street lights or lamps or traffic or signal light or to turn off
the electricity supplying the same.
(Prior Code, § 130.07) Penalty, see §
130.999
§ 130.008 UNITED STATES FLAG.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FLAG OF THE UNITED STATES. As used in this chapter, shall include any
flag, standard, colors, ensign, or any picture or representation of either, or
of any part or parts of either, made of any substance or represented on any
substance, of any size evidently purporting to be either of the flag, standard,
colors, or ensign of the United States of America, or a picture or a
representation of either, upon which shall be shown the colors, the stars, and
the stripes, in any number of either thereof, or of any part or parts of
either, by which the average person seeing the same without deliberation may
believe the same to represent the flag, standards, colors, or ensign of the
United States of America.
(Prior Code, § 137.01)
   (B)   Offenses enumerated. No disrespect should be shown to the flag of the
United States of America; the flag should not be dipped to any person or thing.
Regimental colors, state flags, and organization or institutional flags are to
be dipped as a mark of honor.
      (1)   The flag should never be displayed with the union down, except as a
signal or dire distress in instances of extreme danger to life or property.
      (2)   The flag should never touch anything beneath it, such as the
ground, the floor, water, or merchandise.
      (3)   The flag should never be carried flat or horizontally, but always
aloft and free.
      (4)   The flag should never be used as wearing apparel, bedding, or
drapery. It should never be festooned, drawn back, nor up, in folds, but always
allowed to fall free. Bunting of blue, white, and red, always arranged with the
blue above, the white in the middle, and the red below, should be used for
covering a speaker’s desk, draping the front of the platform, and for
decoration in general.
      (5)   The flag should never be fastened, displayed, used, or stored in a
manner as to permit it to be easily torn, soiled, or damaged in any way.
      (6)   The flag should never be used as a covering for a ceiling.
      (7)   The flag should never have placed upon it, nor on any part of it,
nor attached to it any mark, insignia, letter, word, figure, design, picture,
or drawing of any nature.
      (8)   The flag should never be used as a receptacle for receiving,
holding, carrying, or delivering anything.
      (9)   The flag should never be used for advertising purposes in any
manner whatsoever. It should not be embroidered on articles such as cushions or
handkerchiefs, and the like, printed or otherwise impressed on paper napkins or
boxes or anything that is designed for temporary use and discard. Advertising
signs should not be fastened to a staff or halyard from which the flag is
flown.
      (10)   No part of the flag should ever be used as a costume or athletic
uniform. However, a flag patch may be affixed to the uniform of military
personnel, firefighters, police officers, and members of patriotic
organizations. The flag represents a living country and is itself considered a
living thing. Therefore, the lapel flag pin being a replica should be worn on
the left lapel near the heart.
      (11)   The flag, when it is in a condition that it is not a fitting
emblem for display, should be destroyed in a dignified way, preferably by
burning.
(Prior Code, § 137.02)
(Ord. 3485, passed - -1989) Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Whoever knowingly casts contempt upon any flag of the United States by
publicly mutilating, defacing, defiling, burning, or trampling upon it shall be
fined not more than an amount as set by the city from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 137.99) (Ord. 3485, passed - -1989)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
General Provisions
   
131.001   Buildings used for disturbing the peace
   
131.002   Wearing of masks, cowls, or hoods
   
131.003   Material dealing with racial or religious hatred; dissemination
   
131.004   Interference with radio and television reception
Labor Disputes
   
131.015   City policy
   
131.016   Strikebreakers
Noise
   
131.030   Generally
   
131.031   Enumeration
   
131.032   Transporting rails, pillars, or other materials
   
131.033   Sound trucks
   
131.034   Abatement
Loitering
   
131.045   Definitions
   
131.046   Loitering by street gang members; dispersal order
   
131.047   Loitering by minors prohibited; exceptions
Open Alcoholic Beverage Containers
   
131.060   Definitions
   
131.061   Possession or consumption prohibited
 
   
131.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.001 BUILDINGS USED FOR DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person owning or in possession or control of any building or premises
shall use the same, permit the use of the same or rent the same to be used for
any business or employment or for the purpose of pleasure or recreation if the
use shall, by its boisterous nature, disturb or destroy the peace of the
neighborhood in which the building or premises is situated or be dangerous or
detrimental to health.
(Prior Code, § 131.01) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.002 WEARING OF MASKS, COWLS, OR HOODS.
   It is unlawful for any person within the city to appear in public in any
mask, cap, cowl, hood, or other thing concealing the identity of the wearer;
provided, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to persons
attending or taking part in carnivals, masked balls, public shows,
entertainments, or celebrations in the city or under the permission of the
proper authority of the city, nor to any person holding a written permit issued
by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 131.02) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.003 MATERIAL DEALING WITH RACIAL OR RELIGIOUS HATRED; DISSEMINATION.
   It is unlawful for any person to print, publish, distribute, or cause to be
printed, published, or distributed by any means or in any manner whatsoever any
handbill, dodger, circular, booklet, pamphlet, leaflet, card, sticker,
periodical, literature, paper, or other printed matter which tends to expose
any individual or any racial or religious group to hatred, contempt, ridicule,
or obloquy unless the same is clearly printed or written thereon:
   (A)   The true name and post office address of the person causing the same
to be printed, published, or distributed; and
   (B)   If the name is that of a firm, corporation, or organization, the name
and post office address of the individual acting in its behalf in causing the
printing, publication, or distribution.
(Prior Code, § 131.03) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.004 INTERFERENCE WITH RADIO AND TELEVISION RECEPTION.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly and wantonly to operate or cause to
be operated any machine, device, apparatus, or instrument of any kind
whatsoever within the city between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. the
operation of which shall cause reasonably preventable electrical interference
with radio or television reception within the city; provided, that X-ray
pictures, examinations, or treatments may be made at any time if the machines
or apparatus used therefor are properly equipped to avoid all unnecessary or
reasonably preventable interference with radio reception and are not
negligently operated. This section shall not be applicable to any transmitting,
broadcasting, or receiving instrument, apparatus, or device used or useful in
interstate commerce or the operation of which instrument, apparatus, or device
is licensed or authorized by or under the provisions of any act of the Congress
of the United States.
(Prior Code, § 131.04) Penalty, see §
131.999
LABOR DISPUTES
§ 131.015 CITY POLICY.
   It is declared to be the policy of the city, in the exercise of its police
power for the protection of the public safety and for the maintenance of peace
and good order and for the promotion of the city’s trade, commerce, and
manufacturing, to assure all persons involved in labor disputes freedom of
speech and freedom from bodily harm and to prohibit the occasion of violence
and disorder and, in furtherance of these policies, to prohibit the recruitment
and furnishing of professional strikebreakers to replace the employees involved
in labor disputes.
(Prior Code, § 131.15) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.016 STRIKEBREAKERS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   No person who customarily and repeatedly offers himself or herself
for employment in place of employees involved in a labor dispute shall take or
offer to take the place of any employee in a labor dispute.
      (2)   It shall be prima facie evidence that a person customarily and
repeatedly offers himself or herself for the employment in place of employees
involved in a labor dispute if the person shall have two times before offered
to take the place of employment of persons involved in labor disputes.
(Prior Code, § 131.16)
   (B)   Recruitment. No person shall recruit, procure, supply, or refer any
person for employment who customarily and repeatedly offers himself or herself
for employment in place of any employee involved in a labor dispute in which
the person is not directly involved.
(Prior Code, § 131.17)
   (C)   Employing. No person involved in a labor dispute shall, directly or
indirectly:
      (1)   Employ in place of an employee involved in a dispute any person who
customarily and repeatedly offers himself or herself for employment in the
place of employees involved in a labor dispute; or
      (2)   Contract or arrange with any other person to recruit, procure,
supply, or refer persons who customarily and repeatedly offer themselves for
employment in place of employees involved in a labor dispute.
(Prior Code, § 131.18)
Penalty, see §
131.999
NOISE
§ 131.030 GENERALLY.
   It is unlawful for any person to create, assist in creating, permit,
continue, or permit the continuance of any unreasonably loud, disturbing, or
unnecessary noise in the city.
(Prior Code, § 131.30) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.031 ENUMERATION.
   The following acts are declared to be violations of this section, but the
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by frequent or loud continued
noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the vicinity and
the attaching of any bell on any animal or allowing the same to remain on any
animal;
   (B)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle, engine,
stationary or moving instrument, device, or thing so used or repaired or so
loaded in a manner as to create a loud and unnecessary granting, grinding,
rattling, or other noise;
   (C)   The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile,
motorcycle, or other vehicle on any street or public place of the city except
as a necessary warning of danger to property or persons;
   (D)   The blowing of any steam whistle situated on any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or to stop work or as a warning of
danger or except at 11:00 a.m. on Veterans Day, 12:00 a.m. on New Year’s Eve,
or upon proclamation of the Mayor or except as otherwise provided in this code;
   (E)   The use of any whistle on any locomotive engine which makes
unnecessary noise with or by its whistle in any residential or business part of
the city;
   (F)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, steam, or
otherwise, unless the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
   (G)   The erection, including excavation, demolition, alteration, or repair
of any building or structure other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m. on weekdays, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public
safety;
   (H)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle other than police, fire,
or other emergency vehicle, as defined in Title VII of this code;
   (I)   Any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any hospital or other
institution reserved for the sick or any school while the same is in session;
   (J)   The discharge into the open air of exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, or motor boat engine
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noise therefrom;
   (K)   The use or operation of any electrical piano, phonograph, graphophone,
radio, television, loudspeaker, or any instrument or sound producing or sound
amplifying device in a manner or with volume as to annoy or disturb persons in
the vicinity of the instruments or sound amplifying device; provided, that
police and fire equipment shall be exempt from these prohibitions;
   (L)   The making of any noise upon the public street or in proximity thereto
as to be distinctly and loudly audible upon the street, any noise of any kind
by crying, calling, barking, or shouting or by means of any whistle, rattle,
bell, gong, gripper horn, drum, loud speaker, amplifier, musical instrument, or
other device for the purpose of advertising goods, wares, or merchandise or of
attracting attention or of inviting patronage of any person to any business
whatsoever; provided, that nothing contained in this division shall be
construed to prohibit yelling by news delivery personsbetween the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. and, in the case of the sale of extra editions of
newspapers, at any time;
   (M)   The operation of any noise-creating blower or power fan or any
internal combustion engine or from any cracking process the operation of which
causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the
noise from the blower or fan is muffled and the engine is equipped with a
muffler device sufficient to deaden the noise;
   (N)   The playing, using, operating, or permitting to be played, used, or
operated, any radio, tape recorder, cassette player, or other device for
receiving broadcast sound or reproducing recorded sound if the device is
located:
      (1)   On the public way; or
      (2)   In any motor vehicle on the public way; and if the sound generated
by the device is clearly audible to a person with normal hearing at a distance
greater than 75 feet. This division shall not apply to any person participating
in a parade or public assembly for which a permit has been obtained.
   (O)   No person within the city shall play, use, operate, or permit to be
played, used, or operated, any radio, CD player, tape recorder, cassette
player, digital satellite system, or any other device for sending or receiving
a broadcast sound or for recorded sound if the device is located:
      (1)   In, on, or associated with any motor vehicle on the public right-
of-way or on public spaces; and if the sound generated by the device is plainly
audible to a person at a distance of greater than 50 feet from that motor
vehicle in any direction;
      (2)   In addition to a citation written under this section, a motor
vehicle that is used in violation of supra, may be considered a public nuisance
and is subject to seizure, towing, and impoundment by the Police Department;
      (3)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a
vehicle is subject to seizure, towing, and impoundment pursuant to this
division, the police officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a
facility approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety; and
      (4)   The motor vehicle will be held at the approved towing facility and
may be repossessed by the registered owner upon paying all expenses of towing,
impoundment, and storage. (Unclaimed vehicles will be disposed of as per the
provisions of §§
70.085 and
70.086 of this code.)
(Prior Code, § 131.31) (Ord. 0-97-0004, passed - -1997; Ord. 0-06-0024, passed
6-26-2006) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.032 TRANSPORTING RAILS, PILLARS, OR OTHER MATERIALS.
   All rails, pillars, and columns of iron, steel, or other metal, stone or
other materials which are being transported on the public ways of the city
shall be so loaded as to avoid causing loud noises or disturbing the peace and
quiet of public ways.
(Prior Code, § 131.32) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.033 SOUND TRUCKS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to use or cause to be used in or on any
automobile, truck, or other vehicle operating upon the streets or alleys or
public places in the city any radio device or apparatus or any machine, device,
or apparatus for the amplification of any sounds from any radio or phonograph
or other sound making or sound producing device or any sound or device for the
reproduction or amplification of the human voice or music or other noise or
sounds, for the purpose of hawking or advertising any business, merchandise,
amusement, event, service, candidacy, or the sale of anything.
   (B)   The use of sound devices for any noncommercial purposes shall be
permitted only between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m., and then only if
the use does not constitute a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 131.33) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.034 ABATEMENT.
   The acts enumerated in §
131.031 are declared to be nuisances, and upon complaint to the Police
Department by any person disturbed or annoyed by the noises therefrom, the
police shall thereupon investigate the complaint and, if found justified, shall
notify the person causing or permitting the continuance of the noise to abate
the nuisance, and if the person so notified neglects to abate the same
forthwith, a complaint shall be filed against the offending person. Any person,
however, may be arrested or sued for penalties for violation of §§
131.030 and
131.031 upon the direct complaint of any other person and any police office may
arrest the offender when he or she hears the noise.
(Prior Code, § 131.34) Penalty, see §
131.999
LOITERING
§ 131.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GANG ACTIVITY. The commission, attempted commission or solicitation of any
offense as defined in I.C. Title 35, Articles 41 through 49 inclusive, and
further shall include any activity or conduct that violates existing city
ordinances committed by two or more persons, or by an individual at the
direction of, or in association with, any street gang, with the intent to
promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members.
   LOITER. To remain in any one place with no apparent purpose.
   PUBLIC PLACE. The public way and any other location open to the public,
whether either publicly or privately owned.
   STREET GANG. Any on-going organization, association in fact, or group of
three or more persons, whether formal or informal, having as one if its
substantial activities the commission of any criminal act and whose members
individually or collectively engage in or have engaged in a pattern of gang
activity.
(Prior Code, § 131.45) (Ord. 0-93-0023, passed - -1993)
§ 131.046 LOITERING BY STREET GANG MEMBERS; DISPERSAL ORDER.
   (A)   Whenever a police officer observes a person whom they reasonably
believe to be a street gang member loitering in any public place with one or
more other persons, the officer shall order all such persons to disperse and
remove themselves from the area. Any person who does not promptly obey the
order is in violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense to an alleged violation of this
subchapter that no person who was observed loitering was in fact a member of a
street gang.
(Prior Code, § 131.46) (Ord. 0-93-0023, passed - -1993) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.047 LOITERING BY MINORS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to be present at, or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street, or highway in the city
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. Friday and 6:00 a.m. Saturday, between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. Saturday and 6:00 a.m. Sunday, and also between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any other day of the week; provided, however,
that the provisions of this section shall not apply when:
   (A)   The minor is accompanied and supervised by his or her parent, legal
guardian, or other adult having the legal care or custody of the minor, or by
the minor’s spouse if the spouse is 18 years of age or older, or by any other
responsible companion at least 21 years of age or older approved by the minor’s
parent or legal guardian or other adult having the legal care or custody of the
minor;
   (B)   The presence of the minor in a place is required by an occupation or
business in which the minor is lawfully engaged; and
   (C)   The minor is going directly to or from any adult supervised activity
sponsored by a school, church, civic, or not-for-profit organization who is in
good standing in the community.
(Prior Code, § 131.47) (Ord. 0-93-0023, passed - -1993) Penalty, see §
131.999
OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTAINERS
§ 131.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. The meaning set forth in I.C. 7.1-1-3-5.
   CONTAINER. The meaning set forth in I.C. 7.1-1-3-13.
(Prior Code, § 131.60) (Ord. 0-02-0020, passed - -2002)
§ 131.061 POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED.
   A person who knowingly consumes an alcoholic beverage or possesses a
container that has been opened; that has a broken seal; or from which some of
the contents have been removed while standing on a public street, sidewalk,
thoroughfare, parkway, park, or other public place within the city limits
commits a violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 131.61) (Ord. 0-02-0020, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
131.999
§ 131.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter, for which no other penalty is provided, shall, upon conviction
thereof, pay a fine not exceeding an amount as set by the city from time to
time for each violation.
   (B)   Loitering.
      (1)   Violation of §
131.046. Any person who violates §
131.046 is subject to a fine an amount as set by the city from time to time for
each offense. In addition to the above penalties, any person who violates §
131.046 may be required to perform up to a maximum of 120 hours of community
service.
      (2)   Violation of §
131.047; police custody authorized.
         (a)   A police officer who finds a minor in violation of §
131.047 is authorized to take the minor into custody until a time as the
minor’s parent, legal guardian, or other adult having legal care or custody of
the minor is located and notified of the violation, and takes custody of the
minor from the police. If no person can be located within a reasonable period
of time, the minor shall then be referred to the appropriate juvenile
authorities.
         (b)   A parent, legal guardian, or other adult having the legal care
or custody of a minor who shall knowingly permit the minor to violate any
provision of §
131.047 shall be fined an amount as set by the city from time to time for each
offense.
   (C)   Alcohol. An officer of the City Police Department may issue a ticket
or city ordinance violation citation to a person who violates §§
131.060 through
131.061. Conviction of the citation or ticket issued to an individual shall
carry up to a penalty in an amount as set by the city from time to time for
each offense.
(Prior Code, § 131.99) (Ord. 0-93-0023, passed - -1993; Ord. 0-97-0004, passed
- -1997; Ord. 0-02-0020, passed - -2002; Ord. 0-06-0024, passed 6-26-2006)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY
Section
General Provisions
   
132.001   Endurance and similar contests
   
132.002   Food containers and measures; deceptive practices unlawful
   
132.003   Indecent exposure or dress
   
132.004   Indecent or lewd acts
   
132.005   Sleeping in streets, parks, and other public places
   
132.006   Spitting in public
Comic Books
   
132.020   Definitions
   
132.021   Selling and displaying
   
132.022   Certification of contents
Glue Vapors or Fumes
   
132.035   Definition
   
132.036   Smelling or inhaling
   
132.037   Use or possession
   
132.038   Sales
   
132.039   Sales records
   
132.040   Sales to minors
Use of Real Estate for Illegal Activities
   
132.055   Definitions
   
132.056   Criminal, illegal, and unsafe use of real estate prohibited; notice
   
132.057   Eviction proceedings as a defense
   
132.058   Criminal charges
   
132.059   Records kept
 
   
132.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.001 ENDURANCE AND SIMILAR CONTESTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to conduct, aid, participate in, or to receive
any receipts from a so-called marathon, walkathon, or endurance contest
participated in by dancers or skaters, or by persons suspending themselves from
great heights or in hazardous places, except in the prosecution of building or
repair work.
(Prior Code, § 132.01) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.002 FOOD CONTAINERS AND MEASURES; DECEPTIVE PRACTICES UNLAWFUL.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale any berries, fruit, produce, food
products, or any other article or commodity in any container or measure the
contents of which shall not be uniform in quality and no person shall top-dress
or, otherwise, cause measures or containers to be filled and exposed for sale
with any commodity for the purpose of deceiving the purchaser or concealing the
quality of the product or commodity. It is unlawful for any person to sell or
offer for sale any fresh or green fruit or vegetables or any other perishable
commodity for human consumption which shall have been emptied from the
container and repacked unless the word “repacked” shall be clearly written or
stamped upon the measure or container in which the repacked commodity is
offered for sale.
(Prior Code, § 132.02) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.003 INDECENT EXPOSURE OR DRESS.
   It is unlawful for any person to appear in a public place in a state of
nudity, or in indecent or lewd dress or clothes or to make any indecent
exposure of his or her person to other persons.
(Prior Code, § 132.03) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.004 INDECENT OR LEWD ACTS.
   No person shall commit any indecent or lewd act that is an affront to
contemporary community standards in any public place of the city.
(Prior Code, § 132.04) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.005 SLEEPING IN STREETS, PARKS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES.
   It is unlawful for any person to sleep in a public park, along or upon any
public street or alley or in any other public place or on or about any private
property without the permission of the owner or occupant thereof.
(Prior Code, § 132.05) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.006 SPITTING IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall spit upon any public sidewalk or in any public conveyance or
upon the floor of any theater, hall, assembly room, or public building.
(Prior Code, § 132.06) Penalty, see §
132.999
COMIC BOOKS
§ 132.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMIC BOOK. Any narrative, story, tale, romance, or account of events or
happenings, fictional, factual, or historical, in which the successive steps in
the development of the action or plot are pictorially or graphically
illustrated by drawings or photographs and in which the legend, narrative, or
dialogue is printed adjacent to or on the pictorial illustration, whether or
not in balloons proceeding out of the mouths of the characters portrayed. This
definition includes all publications of the nature described regardless of
whether they partake of the elements of comedy or humor.
   COMIC BOOK PORTRAYING DEEDS OF BRUTALITY AND VIOLENCE. A comic book, as
hereinbefore described, the theme or plot of which is devoted primarily or in
substantial part to deeds or acts of brutality or violence, such as assaults,
cuttings, stabbings, beatings, sluggings, floggings, eye gougings, brutal
kickings, burnings, dismemberments, and other reprehensible assaults and
batteries on the person.
   CRIME COMIC BOOK. A comic book, as hereinbefore described, the theme or plot
of which is devoted primarily or in substantial part to the portrayal of the
planning or commission of criminal deeds, such as murders, rapes, armed
robberies, burglaries, thefts, kidnappings, arsons, the peddling, sale or use
of narcotics, or other felonies or conspiracies or attempts to commit felonies.
   HORROR COMIC BOOK. A comic book, as hereinbefore described, the theme or
plot of which is gruesome, debasing, monstrous, vile, demonic, ghoulish, weird,
horrible, vicious, depraved, inhuman, or otherwise calculated to inspire in
readers feelings of terror, fear, revulsion, disgust, or morbid curiosity.
   SEXUALLY INDECENT COMIC BOOK. A comic book, as hereinbefore described, the
theme or plot of which is devoted primarily or in substantial part to sexually
indecent subject matter, such as adultery, homosexuality, sadism, masochism, or
other perversions or in which male and female characters are depicted in lewd,
lascivious, or suggestive amorous embraces or in which male or female
characters are scantily or indecently clad or in which the breasts of female
characters or the genital organs of male or female characters are exposed or
partially exposed.
(Prior Code, § 132.20)
§ 132.021 SELLING AND DISPLAYING.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, display, offer for sale, distribute,
lend, or give away or otherwise make available to any person any horror comic
book, crime comic book, sexually indecent comic book, or comic book portraying
deeds of brutality and violence, as defined in §
132.020.
(Prior Code, § 132.21) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.022 CERTIFICATION OF CONTENTS.
   (A)   The provisions of §§
132.020 and
132.021 notwithstanding, no retailer selling, displaying, offering for sale,
distributing, lending, giving away, or otherwise making available to any person
any horror comic book, crime comic book, sexually indecent comic book, or comic
book portraying deeds of brutality and violence, as defined in §
132.020, shall be held in violation of this code if, prior to the sale,
display, offering for sale, distributing, lending, giving away, or otherwise
making available to a person, the retailer has obtained from a wholesaler or
distributor, licensed as such to do business in the city, a written
certification that the particular comic book supplied to the retailer is not of
the nature defined in §
132.020. The certification shall plainly and legibly show the date of delivery
to the retailer and the name and local address of the party signing
certification.
   (B)   If any wholesaler or distributor or any agent or representative
thereof shall falsely certify to a retailer that any comic book supplied by him
or her to a retailer is not a horror comic book, crime comic book, sexually
indecent comic book, or comic book portraying deeds of brutality and violence,
as defined in §
132.020, the wholesaler or distributor and his or her agent or representative
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished or fined as provided in §
132.999.
(Prior Code, § 132.22) Penalty, see §
132.999
GLUE VAPORS OR FUMES
§ 132.035 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GLUE CONTAINING A SOLVENT HAVING THE PROPERTY OF RELEASING TOXIC VAPORS OR
FUMES. Any glue, cement, or other adhesive containing one or more of the
following chemical compounds:
      (1)   Acetone;
      (2)   An acetate;
      (3)   Benzene;
      (4)   Butyl alcohol;
      (5)   Ethyl alcohol;
      (6)   Ethylene dichloride;
      (7)   Isopropyl alcohol;
      (8)   Methyl alcohol;
      (9)   Methyl ethyl ketone;
      (10)   Pentachlorophenol;
      (11)   Petroleum ether; or
      (12)   Toluene.
(Prior Code, § 132.35)
§ 132.036 SMELLING OR INHALING.
   No person shall, for the purpose of causing a condition of intoxication,
inebriation, excitement, stupefaction, or the dulling of his or her brain or
nervous system, intentionally smell or inhale the fumes from any glue
containing a solvent which has the property of releasing toxic vapors or fumes;
provided, that nothing in this section shall be interpreted as applying to the
inhalation of any anesthesia for medical or dental purposes.
(Prior Code, § 132.36) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.037 USE OR POSSESSION.
   No individual shall, for the purpose of violating §
132.036, use or possess for the purpose of so using any glue containing a
solvent having the property of releasing toxic vapors or fumes.
(Prior Code, § 132.37) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.038 SALES.
   No person, except a person who is, at the time of the sale, actually
employed by or engaged in operating a bona fide commercial establishment at a
fixed location, shall sell to any other person any tube or other container of
glue containing a solvent having the property of releasing toxic vapors or
fumes and all sales of glue not made in or from an establishment are
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 132.38) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.039 SALES RECORDS.
   Each person who, in one transaction or in two or more transactions closely
connected in time, sells to any other person two or more containers of glue
containing a solvent having the property of releasing toxic vapors or fumes
shall upon the occurrence of the second or subsequent transaction, require the
other person to exhibit means of identification of himself or herself, and
shall record in a register conforming with requirements established by the
Chief of Police the name, address, and description of the other person. The
record shall be kept for a period of not less than six months and shall be
available for inspection during normal business hours by officers and members
of the city police force.
(Prior Code, § 132.39) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.040 SALES TO MINORS.
   No person shall sell, give, or otherwise transfer to any other person under
the age of 18, except with the written consent of the parent or guardian of the
other person, any glue containing a solvent having the property of releasing
toxic fumes or vapors; provided, that nothing contained in these regulations
shall be considered applicable to the sale of a tube or other container of glue
immediately in conjunction with the sale of a model kit requiring the use of
approximately the quantity of glue for the assembly of a model; provided
further, that nothing contained in this section shall be applicable to the
transfer of a tube or other container of glue from a parent to his or her child
or from a guardian to his or her ward.
(Prior Code, § 132.40) Penalty, see §
132.999
USE OF REAL ESTATE FOR ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES
§ 132.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The City Code Enforcement and Building Department
assisted by the Law Department.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Hearing Authority shall be the City Board of Public
Safety.
   OCCUPANT OF PROPERTY. Any person occupying a dwelling unit, residence, or
portion thereof, or one using the property as a legal address for any purpose
for more than 60 days in one calendar year.
   OWNER. Any person with a substantial property interest as defined by I.C.
36-7-9-2, whether that person occupies the structure or residence or resides
elsewhere.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Conduct occurring in property which is injurious to public
health or safety, illegal, criminal, unsafe, or a violation of any federal or
state law, local ordinance, Fire Code, or Health Code, or injurious to the
peace and safety of adjoining occupied structures.
(Ord. 13-0021, passed 8-26-2013)
§ 132.056 CRIMINAL, ILLEGAL, AND UNSAFE USE OF REAL ESTATE PROHIBITED; NOTICE.
   (A)   No owner of real estate located in the city shall allow that real
estate to be used for illegal activity, criminal conduct, any conduct contrary
to law or ordinance or unsafe activities. Such a property constitutes a public
nuisance.
   (B)   Evidence of illegal activity on the property may include, but is not
limited to, excessive police calls for service with or without arrests,
issuance of a search warrant by any law enforcement agency in which the return
of search warrant reveals any illegal substance or evidence of criminal
enterprise or activity on the property, evidence of illegal drug use or drug
sales on the property, evidence of gang activity including photographs,
graffiti, or other depiction of gang symbols or colors displayed on the
property, substantiated complaints from neighbors about criminal activity,
activity discovered following inspections performed by the City Enforcement
Authority, City Fire Department, or Health Department.
   (C)   Once the city makes a determination that illegal activity occurring on
the property, the owner of the property shall be notified of this activity by
the city. Once an owner is notified by the city that such activity is occurring
on the property, the owner shall take action to abate such nuisance and
establish a plan for preventing further public nuisance upon the property.
   (D)   Should the illegal activity continue following the notice by the city,
the city, by its Enforcement Authority or Law Department is authorized to issue
a citation to the property owner to appear in the City Court. Should the
citation in the City Court fail to abate the public nuisance, the City Law
Department is authorized to proceed under state law to abate or enjoin the
nuisance though an action in the Lake Superior/Circuit Court, or under the
requirements of the Unsafe Building Act, being I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., before the
Hearing Authority.
(Ord. 13-0021, passed 8-26-2013) Penalty, see §
132.999
§ 132.057 EVICTION PROCEEDINGS AS A DEFENSE.
   (A)   A property owner, who receives notice of illegal conduct or activity
occurring on the property and who institutes, and prosecutes to conclusion, an
eviction proceeding concerning that same property within 30 days of receipt of
the city’s notice of criminal activities, and who provides the city with a plan
for preventing further nuisance at that property, shall be in compliance with
the ordinance.
   (B)   The city shall make available, to the extent permitted by law, its
records, documents, photographs, inspectors, and officers for use in eviction
hearings to provide evidence and testimony as to illegal conduct occurring on
the property at issue.
   (C)   If the occupant of the real estate prevails on the merits, not by
reason of procedural irregularities, or failure to prosecute by the property
owner, and demonstrates to the Court that illegal activity has not occurred on
the property, the property owner is relieved of the requirement of eviction of
that occupant at that time.
(Ord. 13-0021, passed 8-26-2013)
§ 132.058 CRIMINAL CHARGES.
   This subchapter, and its enforcement, shall be adjunct to and not a
substitution for criminal charges under state or federal law, filed as the
result of any investigation by any branch of law enforcement against any
property owner, or occupant of any property where illegal activity has
occurred.
(Ord. 13-0021, passed 8-26-2013)
§ 132.059 RECORDS KEPT.
   The City Law Department shall maintain a list of the property owners and
addresses which have received notices, citations, or legal action under this
subchapter. Such a list shall be available to the extent authorized by the
State Access to Public Records Act, being I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.
(Ord. 13-0021, passed 8-26-2013)
§ 132.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to § 10.99 of this code of
ordinances.
   (B)   Any violations of §§
132.038 and
132.040 shall in addition to the penalties set out in this code be grounds for
the immediate revocation of any and all licenses or permits granted to any
person by the city.
   (C)   Violations of §§
132.055 through
132.059 shall, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined up to the amount of an
amount as set by the city from time to time. Second and subsequent offenses of
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined up to the amount of an
amount as set by the city from time to time. Each day a violation of this
chapter occurs constitutes a separate offense. The city may simultaneously cite
the owner in City Court and seek legal relief under state law in Court or
before the Hearing Authority.
(Prior Code, § 132.99) (Ord. 13-0021, passed 8-26-2013)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
133.001   Meddling with personal property
   
133.002   Damaging or destroying public and private property
   
133.003   Digging or removing sod, stone, earth, sand, or gravel
   
133.004   Unauthorized collection of recyclable materials
Graffiti
   
133.015   Graffiti prohibited
   
133.016   Notice of violation
   
133.017   Failure to abate
   
133.018   Prohibited
 
   
133.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 133.001 MEDDLING WITH PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to meddle or interfere, in any manner, with
the property of any other person within the city.
(Prior Code, § 133.01) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.002 DAMAGING OR DESTROYING PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall damage, injure, cut, mar, deface, or destroy any
public or private building, fountain, statue, tree, grass, or shrubbery, sewer,
water pipe, hydrant, sign, signal, or other public or private property, whether
real or personal. No person shall break, injure, or destroy any private or
public street bulbs, lamps, posts, or appendages.
   (B)   No person shall, without authority, cut, mutilate, injure, or destroy
any fence, guide post, traffic signal, or sign or awning.
   (C)   No person shall wantonly injure or destroy any private window or
building, seminary, or any other edifice whatsoever or any building or
structure under construction, or any private shade or ornamental trees or the
box or protection around them planted in any yard, street, or public ground
within the city.
   (D)   No person shall maliciously or intentionally damage or destroy any
official police or fire uniform, equipment, or signal.
   (E)   No person shall cause graffito or graffiti on any public or private
building, fountain, statue, viaduct, bridge, water tower, hydrant, sign,
signal, or other city or private property, whether real or personal. GRAFFITO
and GRAFFITI are defined as being inscription or inscriptions or drawings or
paint spraying made on any surface capable of being inscribed, drawn, or
painted on.
(Prior Code, § 133.02) (Ord. 3397, passed - -1985) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.003 DIGGING OR REMOVING SOD, STONE, EARTH, SAND, OR GRAVEL.
   No person shall cut, dig, or remove any sod, stone, earth, sand, or gravel
from any premises not his or her own without the consent of the owner. No
person shall dig, cut, or remove any sod, earth, sand, gravel, or stone from
any property adjoining or contiguous to a public way in a manner as to leave
the property in an unsafe or unsanitary condition or in a condition as will
constitute a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 133.03) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.004 UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Removal of recyclable material. No person other than an authorized
recycling contractor, or the city, shall remove recyclable material which has
been placed at the curbside or within the property of another. Any and each
violation hereof from one or more recycling collection locations shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense punishable as provided in this
chapter.
   (B)   Other interference with recyclable material. Destroying, scattering,
or collecting recyclable materials without the consent of the resident of the
premises or the authorized recycling contractor, or city, is prohibited. It is
unlawful for any person to burn, break, destroy, scatter, scavenge, collect, or
take any recyclable materials without the consent of the resident of the
premises, or the authorized recycling contractor, or the city.
   (C)   Approved recycling container; ownership and unauthorized removal. It
is unlawful for a person other than the resident of the premises or his/her
designee; the city; an authorized agent of the city; or the authorized
recycling contractor to remove any approved recycling container from the
curbside.
   (D)   Right of individual to dispose of recyclable material. Nothing in this
chapter shall limit the right of an individual person, organization, or other
entity to donate, sell, or otherwise dispose of recyclable material; provided,
that any such disposal is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 12-0004, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
133.999
GRAFFITI
§ 133.015 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   All sidewalks, walls, buildings, fences, signs, and other structures or
surfaces shall be kept free from graffiti when the graffiti is visible from the
street or other public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 133.15) (Ord. 0-98-0003, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.016 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Generally. In the event that graffiti is determined to exist on
property in violation of this subchapter, the city shall, in writing, notify
the owner of the property or responsible party, through the issuance a notice
of violation providing a maximum of ten days to abate the graffiti, which
notice may be served by certified mail, personal service, or by posting the
subject property and publishing the notice in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city.
(Prior Code, § 133.16)
   (B)   Contents. The notice of violation shall identify the property in
violation, shall generally describe the location of the graffiti and direct
that the graffiti shall be abated within ten days of receipt of the notice. The
notice shall state that in the event the owner or responsible party fails to
abate the graffiti within the time period specified in the notice of violation,
the city shall abate the graffiti and bill the owner or responsible party for
the costs thereof. The notice shall state that the owner or responsible party
may appeal the notice to the City Board of Public Works and Safety by filing a
written notice of appeal within the same time period to abate the graffiti,
accompanied with and appeal fee of an amount as set by the city from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 133.17)
(Ord. 0-98-0003, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.017 FAILURE TO ABATE.
   In the event that the owner or responsible party fails to abate the graffiti
as required by the notice of violation, the city may proceed to abate the
graffiti and bill the owner or responsible party for the costs thereof. In the
event that the bill is not paid, a statement of the account shall be certified
to the City Controller who shall collect the same due, together with interest
at the rate established by law. The city or its authorized private contractor
is expressly authorized to enter private property and abate graffiti thereon in
accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 133.18) (Ord. 0-98-0003, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.018 PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may write, paint, or draw any inscription, figure, or mark
of any type on any public or private building or other real or personal
property owned, operated, or maintained by a governmental entity or any agency
or instrumentality thereof or by a person, form, or corporation unless the
express permission of the owner or operator of the property has been obtained.
   (B)   No person may possess an aerosol spray paint container or broad-tipped
indelible marker with the intent to violate division (A) above.
   (C)   No person may possess an aerosol spray paint container or broad-tipped
indelible marker on any private property unless the owner, agent, manager, or
other person having control of the property consented to the presence of the
aerosol spray paint container or broad-tipped indelible marker.
   (D)   No person under the age of 18 years may possess an aerosol spray paint
container or broad-tipped indelible marker on any public property unless
accompanied by a parent, guardian, employer, teacher, or other adult in any
similar relationship and the possession is for a lawful purpose.
   (E)   No person or firm may sell, deliver, or give or cause to be sold,
delivered, or given to any person under the age of 18 years and no person under
the age of 18 years may buy any aerosol spray paint container or broad-tipped
indelible marker. Evidence that a person, his or her employee or agent demanded
and was shown acceptable evidence of majority and acted upon the evidence in a
transaction or sale shall be a defense to any enforcement under this division.
This division does not apply to the transfer of an aerosol spray paint
container or broad-tipped indelible marker from a parent to child, guardian to
ward, employer to employee, teacher to student, or in any other similar
relationship when the transfer is for a lawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 133.19) (Ord. 0-98-0003, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
133.999
§ 133.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.999.
   (B)   Graffiti. Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
133.018 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in a sum up to an amount as
set by the city from time to time and costs of prosecution. Each day a
violation of this chapter continues constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   Interference with recyclable material. The penalty for violation of §
133.004 is for a fine of up to an amount as set by the city from time to time
for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 133.99) (Ord. 0-98-0003, passed - -1998; Ord. 12-0004, passed 3-
12-2012)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
Section
General Provisions
   
134.001   Parents to exercise control
   
134.002   Curfew and defenses
Laser Pointers
   
134.015   Prohibited acts
   
134.016   Transfer or sale to minor
   
134.017   Liability of parent or legal guardian
Truancy Program
   
134.030   Definitions
   
134.031   Truancy prohibited
   
134.032   Parental responsibility for school attendance of minor
   
134.033   Referrals
   
134.034   Establishment of truancy program and referral system
   
134.035   Personal notice
   
134.036   Enforcement
 
   
134.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 134.001 PARENTS TO EXERCISE CONTROL.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CRIMINAL ACTS. Those acts which violate the statutes of the state or the
ordinances of the city, not including traffic violations.
      MINOR.
         (a)   Any juvenile under the age of 18 years residing with the parent
as defined in this section.
         (b)   Any person under the age of 18.
      PARENT. Mother, father, legal guardian, and any other person having the
care or custody of a minor or other adult with whom a minor may be found
residing.
   (B)   (1)   It is unlawful for the parent of any minor to fail to exercise
parental control which results in the minor committing any criminal act or to
allow or encourage any criminal act or become delinquent in accordance with the
juvenile code as it pertains to juveniles.
      (2)   Failure to exercise parental control shall include, but not be
limited to the following:
         (a)   Knowingly permit the minor to keep stolen property;
         (b)   Knowingly permit the minor to be absent without cause from
regular school sessions;
         (c)   Knowingly permit the minor to possess unlawful drugs and
narcotics;
         (d)   Knowingly permit the minor to be without proper supervision in
the absence of parents;
         (e)   Knowingly permit the minor to spray paint on or deface any
property within the city;
         (f)   Knowingly permit the minor to carry or possess firearms except
and unless he or she is a licensed hunter in the company of an adult in direct
route to a hunting site;
         (g)   Knowingly permit the minor to carry within the city a knife or
sharp instrument the blade of which is over three and one-half inches; and/or
         (h)   Knowingly or otherwise, leave firearms for young children to
injure or destroy themselves.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever a minor shall be arrested or detained for the
commission of any criminal act within the city, the parent of the minor shall
be immediately notified by the Police Department advising the parent of the
arrest or detention, the reason therefor and their responsibility under this
section.
      (2)   A record of the notifications shall be kept by the City Police
Department.
   (D)   Any parent or guardian of a minor child shall be responsible and
financially obligated to reimburse the damages of any property or personal
injuries inflicted by the minor child, if found guilty.
(Prior Code, § 135.01) Penalty, see §
134.999
§ 134.002 CURFEW.
   (A)   (1)   It is a curfew violation for a child less than 15 years of age
to be in a public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
      (2)   It is a curfew violation for children 15 through 17 years of age to
be in a public place:
         (a)   Between 1:00 a.m, and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
         (b)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday; or
         (c)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or
Friday.
      (3)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child
into custody based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
         (a)   The child has violated this section; and
         (b)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
      (4)   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child
was emancipated.
      (5)   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
         (a)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian;
         (b)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent,
guardian, or custodian;
         (c)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
            1.   Lawful employment;
            2.   A school sanctioned activity;
            3.   A religious event;
            4.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
            5.   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Art.
1, § 31 of the Constitution of the State, or both, such as freedom of speech
and the right of assembly; or
            6.   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adults.
         (d)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian; or
         (e)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside the state to another location outside the state.
      (6)   The city has the option and right under I.C. 31-37-3-4 to determine
that any curfew time established by the state statute that is later than Is
reasonable for public safety under the conditions found to exist in the city
may, by ordinance, advance the curfew time by not more than two hours. The
city, at this time, adopts the current state standards. Additionally, the city
may advance by up to four hours curfew times for the peace, order, and safety
at a cemetery or other facility used to memorialize the dead, but the city
elects not to do so at this time,
   (B)   (1)   It is a defense to a violation under this subchapter that the
child was emancipated:
         (a)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
         (b)   By virtue of having married; or
         (c)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction at
the time that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct.
      (2)   It is a defense to a violation under this subchapter that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
         (a)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian;
         (b)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent,
guardian, or custodian;
         (c)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
            1.   Lawful employment;
            2.   A school sanctioned activity;
            3.   A religious event;
            4.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
            5.   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Art.
1, § 31 of the Constitution of the State, or both, such as freedom of speech
and the right of assembly; or
            6.   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adults.
         (d)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child’s parent, guardian, or custodian; or
         (e)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside the state to another location outside the state.
(Prior Code, § 135.03)
(Ord. 11-0016, passed 7-25-2011; Ord. 0-08-0015, passed 7-28-2008) Penalty, see
§
134.999
LASER POINTERS
§ 134.015 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person less than 18 years of age to have in his
or her possession at any private or public place, except as provided herein, a
laser pointer of the following type:
   (A)   A Helium Neon (HeNe) laser which typically operates at a wavelength of
632.8 nMe with the mandated power limit of 5mW of power. The lasers are
considered Class 2 laser with the potential for eye injury; and
   (B)   A diode laser which typically operates at a wavelength of 670 nMe
(although others are possible) with a power source providing 5mW. The lasers
are considered Class 3a lasers, with the potential for eye injury.
(Prior Code, § 135.15) (Ord. 0-98-0025, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
134.999
§ 134.016 TRANSFER OR SALE TO MINOR.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall sell to or provide a minor with a
Class 2 or Class 3a laser pointer as described in this subchapter unless the
minor is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian at the time of purchase or
transfer. No minor shall, at the time of purchase of a laser pointer, furnish
fraudulent evidence of majority. No minor shall possess a Class 2 or Class 3a
laser pointer as described in this subchapter on any public property or private
property except while accompanied by a parent or legal guardian and, on while
private property, with the express permission of the lawful owner or manager of
the private property. Also provided, however, that the possession by a person
under the age of 18 years, under the direct supervision of the parent or
guardian of the person in the privacy of the parent’s or guardian’s home, shall
not be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 135.16) (Ord. 0-98-0025, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
134.999
§ 134.017 LIABILITY OF PARENT OR LEGAL GUARDIAN.
   (A)   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor defendant who
resides with the parent or legal guardian shall be liable for any fine or
condition of restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon a minor for
violation of this subchapter, provided that the minor has not paid the fine or
made restitution or reparation within the time ordered by the court; and
further provided that the parent or legal guardian has been served with a
summons or notice to appear in the original cause as provided by law.
   (B)   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor defendant who
resides with the parent or legal guardian shall be a necessary party to any
proceeding under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 135.17) (Ord. 0-98-0025, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
134.999
TRUANCY PROGRAM
§ 134.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. Any juvenile under the age of 18 years who has not been emancipated.
   PARENT. Any adult who has legal custody of a minor or with whom a minor may
be found residing. This includes, but is not limited to, the mother, father,
legal guardian, and any other person having care or custody of a minor.
(Ord. 19-0008, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 134.031 TRUANCY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city who is required by
law to attend school, and who is subject to the compulsory school attendance
requirement set forth in I.C. 20-33-2-6 and enrolled in grades K-12 in a
public, private, or parochial school, to be absent from school without good
cause.
   (B)   Good cause for school absence shall include:
      (1)   Service on a precinct election board or for a political candidate
or party, in compliance with I.C. 20-33-2-15:
      (2)   Service as a witness in a judicial proceeding, in compliance with
I.C. 20-33-2-16;
      (3)   Active duty with the State National Guard, or a state wing of the
Civil Air Patrol, in compliance with I.C. 20-33-2-17 and/or 20-33-2-17.2;
      (4)   Participation in an educationally-related non-classroom activity,
in compliance with I.C. 20-33-2-17.5;
      (5)   Illness or incapacity of the minor with proper certification, in
compliance with I.C. 20-33-2-18;
      (6)   Religious instruction authorized by the school principal, in
compliance with I.C. 20-33-2-19; and
      (7)   Other permission or authorization from the school where the minor
is enrolled, for a reason which complies with an applicable provision of or the
school’s authority pursuant to the state code.
(Ord. 19-0008, passed 7-22-2019) Penalty, see §
134.999
§ 134.032 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR SCHOOL ATTENDANCE OF MINOR.
   It shall be unlawful and in violation of this subchapter for the parent of
any minor to fail to exercise parental control and responsibility for the
school attendance of said minor, including but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Knowingly permitting the minor to be absent, or failing to prevent the
minor from being absent, from regular school sessions without good cause, as
defined previously in this subchapter; or
   (B)   Knowingly changing the minor’s residence and failing to notify the
school of the minor’s new address.
(Ord. 19-0008, passed 7-22-2019) Penalty, see §
134.999
§ 134.033 REFERRALS.
   (A)   Referral from school administration. The Superintendent of SCEC, or
the Superintendent’s designee, or the Principal or Building Administrator of
any public, private, or parochial school located within the territorial limits
of the city, or the designee of the principal or Building Administrator of any
public, private, charter, or parochial school located within the territorial
limits of the city, may refer instances of observed or suspected parental
educational neglect to the Director of the city’s truancy program:
      (1)   By providing the city’s law enforcement officer, school resource
officer, or code enforcement officer with an affidavit setting forth the
circumstances of the conduct alleged to constitute parental educational
neglect; and
      (2)   Designating the city’s law enforcement officer, school resource
officer, or code enforcement officer to serve personal notice on the minor’s
parents.
   (B)   Referral from ECHA. The Executive Director of ECHA, or the Executive
Director’s designee (including, but not limited to, an ECHA Property Manager or
the Housing Choice Voucher Program Director), may refer instances of parental
educational neglect to the Director of the city’s truancy program:
      (1)   By providing the city’s law enforcement officer, school resource
officer, or code enforcement officer with an affidavit setting forth the
circumstances of the conduct alleged to constitute parental educational
neglect; and
      (2)   Designating the city’s law enforcement officer, school resource
officer, or code enforcement officer to serve personal notice on the minor’s
parents.
   (C)   Referral from North Township Trustee. The North Township Trustee, or
his or her designee, may refer observed instances of parental educational
neglect to the Director of the city’s truancy program:
      (1)   By providing the city’s law enforcement officer, school resource
officer, or code enforcement officer with an affidavit setting forth the
circumstances of the conduct alleged to constitute parental educational
neglect; and
      (2)   Designating the city’s law enforcement officer, school resource
officer, or code enforcement officer to serve personal notice on the minor’s
parents.
   (D)   Referral from Law Enforcement Officer, School Resource Officer, or
Code Enforcement Officer. The city’s law enforcement officer or school resource
officer, upon observing a minor child not in school, in a public place,
unaccompanied by an adult, and not appearing to be engaged in any activity
constituting “good cause” for non-attendance at school, shall exercise the
officer’s statutory authority per I.C. 20-33-2-23 to transport the minor to the
school in which the minor is enrolled, and may further refer instances of
parental educational neglect to the Director of the city’s truancy program:
      (1)   By providing an affidavit setting forth the circumstances of the
conduct alleged to constitute parental educational neglect; and
      (2)   Designating a city law enforcement officer, school resource
officer, or code enforcement officer to serve personal notice on the minor’s
parents.
(Ord. 19-0008, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 134.034 ESTABLISHMENT OF TRUANCY PROGRAM AND REFERRAL SYSTEM.
   A Truancy Program shall be established by operation of this chapter.
Referrals to the Truancy Program shall be made in the following manner:
   (A)   The Director of the city’s Truancy Program shall receive all referrals
from the referring entities described in §
134.033.
   (B)   The Director shall request that all parents and students meet with the
school’s guidance counselor, social worker, school resource officer, truancy
officer, or other designee to discuss (subject to the parents’ right to due
process) the nature and circumstances of the violation and possible remedial
actions to be taken, If the Director determines that all remedial actions
available to the school have been exhausted or are unlikely to succeed, the
Director shall proceed as described in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   The Director shall forward all referrals regarding juveniles to the
local office of the State Department of Child Services and/or the Juvenile
Division of the Lake Superior Court, and shall forward all referrals regarding
violations of §
134.032 by adult offenders to the City Attorney, to be reviewed for the filing
of a citation in the City Court.
   (D)   It is the intention and expectation of this subchapter that the State
Department of Child Services and/or the Juvenile Division of the Lake Superior
Court shall refer all city truancy matters to the Truancy Program established
in this chapter, as a condition of a program of informal adjustment pursuant to
the provisions of I.C. 31-37-9.
   (E)   It is further the intention and expectation of this chapter that the
City Attorney shall recommend the Truancy Program as an appropriate pre-trial
deferral alternative to be employed in ordinance violation matters filed
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (F)   The City Attorney shall direct notices to parents as described in §
134.035 and shall initiate proceedings as described in further sections of this
subchapter, pursuant to its authority upon the issuance of a citation.
   (G)   It is further the intention and expectation of this subchapter that
the City Court, in the event of a plea of guilty by or a finding of liability
against the parent/parents charged with a violation of this subchapter shall,
in the discretion of the Court, consider the Truancy Program as one of the
methods of punishment for a violation of §
134.032 involving adult offenders.
(Ord. 19-0008, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 134.035 PERSONAL NOTICE.
   Before proceedings are instituted against a parent for a violation of this
subchapter, personal notice of the violation, hearing date, and meeting
requirement contained in §
134.036(B) shall be served on the parent by one or more of the following means:
   (A)   Delivering a copy of the notice to the parent personally. In this
circumstance, personal notice shall be considered to have occurred on the date
of delivery.
   (B)   Any other means of sending a copy of the notice to the parent. In this
circumstance, personal notice shall be considered to have occurred on the date
of delivery.
   (C)   Leaving a copy of the notice at the last and usual place of residence
of the parent. In this circumstance, personal notice shall be considered to
have occurred on the date of delivery.
   (D)   Communicating actual notice of the violation to the parent by any
other means. In this circumstance, actual notice shall be considered to have
occurred on the earliest date that the communication is made.
   (E)   Additional notices of violation shall not be required for absences
occurring after notice is provided to the parent, but prior to the scheduled
hearing date stated in the notice; each day of violation constitutes a separate
offense.
(Ord. 19-0008, passed 7-22-2019)
§ 134.036 ENFORCEMENT.
   Upon receiving notice of a violation of this subchapter, the parent shall be
required to take the following actions:
   (A)   Appear for a pre-trial meeting with the City Attorney, during which a
referral to the Truancy Program may be implemented by the City Attorney as a
pre-trial deferral measure;
   (B)   If the parent refuses or fails to enter or comply with the Truancy
Program as a pretrial deferral measure, appear before the City Court for a
hearing and show cause why the parent should not be found in violation of this
chapter;
   (C)   Comply with the order of the City Court, which may include provisions
for some or all of the following:
      (1)   Completion of restorative or educational programming through the
Truancy Program;
      (2)   A requirement that the parent complete up to 50 hours of community
service per violation, as a remedy for non-compliance with the recommendations
or directives of the Truancy Program; and
      (3)   Imposition of a fine of up to $100 per violation, as a remedy for
non-compliance with the recommendations or directives of the Truancy Program.
   (D)   In the event that any parent appears before the City Court and is
found to have violated this subchapter in at least one instance, any subsequent
violation of this subchapter may be referred to the County Prosecuting Attorney
for the filing of Class B Misdemeanor charges pursuant to I.C. 20-33-2-44.
(Ord. 19-0008, passed 7-22-2019) Penalty, see §
134.999
§ 134.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.999.
   (B)   Laser pointers. Any person found guilty or liable of an offense of §§
134.015 through
134.017 shall be fined in an amount as set by the city from time to time and
costs of prosecution. Each day a violation of §§
134.015 through
134.017 continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 135.99) (Ord. 0-98-0025, passed 12-21-1998)
CHAPTER 135: WEAPONS
Section
   
135.001   Bombs, fire balls, and weapons made of thin glass
   
135.002   Offensive chemicals and substances
   
135.003   Throwing or blowing stones or peashooters
   
135.004   Weapons; air guns or air rifles
   
135.005   Pointing or discharging toy weapons
   
135.006   Pointing or discharging firearms
   
135.007   Chemical weapons
   
135.008   Firearms at public meetings
 
   
135.999   Penalty
§ 135.001 BOMBS, FIRE BALLS, AND WEAPONS MADE OF THIN GLASS.
   No person shall sell, give away, offer to sell or give away, or have in his
or her possession any stink ball or fire ball or any bomb, ball, tube, vial, or
bottle made of thin glass or other easily breakable material containing any of
the abovementioned substances.
(Prior Code, § 136.01) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.002 OFFENSIVE CHEMICALS AND SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession or for
any person to carry about any corrosive acid or any solution or mixture thereof
or any other nauseous, offensive, or filthy substance of like or similar
nature; provided, that this provision shall not apply to manufacturing and
wholesale druggists, retail druggists, physicians, chemists, regularly
established laboratories, or to persons who have procured any substances for
medicinal purposes upon a prescription of a physician regularly licensed under
the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 136.02) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.003 THROWING OR BLOWING STONES OR PEASHOOTERS.
   No person shall use a bean blower or peashooter or blow any object or throw
or cast any stone, snowball, or other missile in, from, or to any public way or
place in the city or against any vehicle or person therein riding.
(Prior Code, § 136.03) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.004 WEAPONS; AIR GUNS OR AIR RIFLES.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AIR GUN. An instrument from which the projectile is propelled by a
spring.
      AIR RIFLE. Any instrument where, by means of a lever, air is pumped into
a chamber and the release of the compressed air forces out a pellet (BB shots).
      SUPERVISED GROUND AREA. A private or public area or space designated in a
location or site wherein the discharge of any pellets (BB shots) or projectiles
from an air rifle or air gun will prevent the same from transversing any
grounds or space outside the limits of the designated area or space and wherein
a responsible person has power or authority to regulate and direct the
activities of the use of the air rifle or air gun within the area or space.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to use or have in
his or her possession any air gun or air rifle that possesses any metallic
bullets or pellets (BB shots) in the chamber of the air gun or air rifle.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years of age to
shoot, set off, or discharge any air rifle or air gun within the corporate
limits of the city; provided, that this section shall not apply to supervised
private or public grounds or areas designated as provided herein, for the
purpose of shooting, discharging, or firing an air gun or air rifle in a manner
as not to endanger person or property.
(Prior Code, § 136.04) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.005 POINTING OR DISCHARGING TOY WEAPONS.
   No person shall point at or discharge at any person any toy firearm, air
rifle, toy cannon, or any gun that discharges projectiles either by air,
spring, explosive, or any other force.
(Prior Code, § 136.05) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.006 POINTING OR DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall fire or discharge any gun, pistol, or other firearm
within the city, except upon premises used by a duly licensed or approved
shooting gallery, gun, or rifle club. No cannon or piece of artillery shall be
discharged or fired off in any public way or other place within the city,
except upon the express permission of the Common Council.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to members of the
police force or other peace officers engaged in the discharge of their official
duties, nor to any person summoned by any of officers to assist in making
arrests or preserving the peace while the person so summoned is engaged in
assisting the officer, nor to sheriffs, coroners, or constables.
   (C)   The restrictions of this section shall not apply to the use of or
discharge of any gun loaded with blank cartridges when used in athletic
contests.
   (D)   The term FIREARM shall include handguns, machine guns, rifles,
shotguns, and all other weapons which fit the definition of FIREARM as provided
herein, as defined by I.C. 35-47-1 et seq., or any other applicable state or
federal law.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of division (A)
above, shall upon conviction thereof, pay a fine not exceeding $500.
   (F)   A parent, legal guardian, or other adult having the legal care or
custody of a minor who shall knowingly permit such minor to violate any
provisions of division (A) above shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $500
per offense.
(Prior Code, § 136.06) (Ord. 21-0005, passed 3-8-2021) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.007 CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHEMICAL WEAPON. Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substances which, upon
dispersion in the atmosphere or in its original state, is designed or intended
for use as a means of inflicting temporary or permanent physical injury or
discomfort to human beings, or which is designed or intended for use as a means
to temporarily or permanently incapacitate or otherwise blunt or deaden the
facilities of perception of human beings.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell,
disperse, or distribute any chemical weapon to any person under the full age of
18 years.
(Prior Code, § 136.07) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.008 FIREARMS AT PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   FIREARMS. The meaning set forth in I.C. 35-47-1-5.
   PUBLIC MEETING. The meaning set forth in I.C. 5-14-1.5-2(c).
   (B)   Display. The display of a firearm at any public meeting held in the
city by any board, department, or elected officials of the city is prohibited.
The city shall post in public places that the display of firearms at a public
meeting is restricted. The signs shall be conspicuously displayed and shall say
that:
      (1)   The intentional display of a firearm is prohibited at public
meetings; and
      (2)   This section shall not apply to sworn law enforcement officers in
the course of official duty.
(Ord. 13-0016, passed 6-10-2013) Penalty, see §
135.999
§ 135.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.999.
   (B)   Automatic or semi-automatic rifles.
      (1)   Any person who owns or possesses any automatic or semi-automatic
rifle in violation of §
135.008 shall be fined in an amount as set by the city from time to time and
the weapon or weapons shall be confiscated.
      (2)   The fact that the weapon is loaded shall also be an offense
punishable by fine and confiscation.
(Prior Code, § 136.99)
   (C)   Display; confiscation.
      (1)   Any person intentionally displaying a firearm in violation of §
135.008 shall be fined as called for in division (B) above.
      (2)   Any firearm displayed in violation of this article may be seized
and held for evidence. Said firearm may only be returned upon proof of payment
of any and all citations issued for such violation(s), and upon providing valid
proof of ownership of said firearm.
(Ord. 3486, passed - -1989; Ord. 13-0016, passed 6-10-2013)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
136.001   Molesting persons of opposite sex
§ 136.001 MOLESTING PERSONS OF OPPOSITE SEX.
   It is unlawful for any person to molest any person of the opposite sex.
(Prior Code, § 134.01) Penalty, see §
10.999
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE
      
151.   BUILDING AND STRUCTURE WRECKING
      
152.   HOUSING STANDARDS
      
153.   CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
      
154.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
155.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
156.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
150.001   Title
   
150.002   Purpose
   
150.003   Authority
   
150.004   Definitions
   
150.005   Scope
   
150.006   Adoption of rules by reference
   
150.007   Application for permits
   
150.008   Permit required
   
150.009   Other ordinances
   
150.010   Fees
   
150.011   Review of application
   
150.012   Inspections
   
150.013   Fire alarm systems; reports
   
150.014   Entry
   
150.015   Stop work order
   
150.016   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.017   Standards
   
150.018   Violations
   
150.019   Right of appeal
   
150.020   Remedies
 
   
150.999   Penalty
§ 150.001 TITLE.
   This chapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the building code of the city, may be cited as such, and will be
referred to herein as “this code.”
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, limb, health, environment, public safety, and for the conservation of
energy in the design and construction of buildings and structures.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.003 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce all of the provisions of this Building Code, variances
granted in accordance with I.C. 22-13-2-11, and orders issued under I.C. 22-12-
7. Whenever in the building regulations, it is provided that anything must be
done to the approval of or subject to the direction of the Building
Commissioner or any other officer of the Building Commissioner’s office, this
shall be construed to give the officer only the discretion of determining
whether the rules and standards established by ordinance has been complied
with; and no provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary
powers as to what regulations, codes, or standards shall be, or power to
require conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to enforce ordinance
provisions in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. Includes individuals employed by the Building
Department that are authorized to represent the Building Commissioner.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-4, has the following definition:
      (1)   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to be or is occupied or
otherwise used in any part by any of the following:
            1.   The public;
            2.   Three or more tenants; or
            3.   One or more persons who act as the employees of another.
         (b)   A site improvement affecting access by persons with physical
disabilities to a building or structure described in division (1)(a) above; or
         (c)   Any class of buildings or structures that the Commission
determines by rules to affect a building or structure described in division (1)
(a), except buildings or structures described in divisions (3) through (5)
below.
      (2)   Division (1)(a) above includes a structure that contains three or
more condominium units (as defined in I.C. 32-25-2-9) or other units that:
         (a)   Are intended to be or are used or leased by the owner of the
unit; and
         (b)   Are not completely separated from each other by an unimproved
space.
      (3)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a building or structure
that:
         (a)   Is intended to be or is used only for an agricultural purpose on
the land where it is located; and
         (b)   Is not used for retail trade or is a stand used for retail sales
of farm produce for eight or less consecutive months in a calendar year.
      (4)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a Class 2 structure.
      (5)   Division (1)(a) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (6)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, STRUCTURE includes swimming pool.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-5, has the following definition:
      (1)   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE means any part of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure that is intended to contain or contains
only one dwelling unit or two dwelling units unless any part of the building or
structure is regularly used as a Class 1 structure; or
         (b)   An outbuilding for a structure described in division (1)(a)
above, such as a garage, barn, or family swimming pool, unless any part of the
outbuilding is regularly used as a Class 1 structure.
      (2)   Division (1) above does not include a vehicular bridge.
      (3)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-24, structure includes swimming pool.
   CONSTRUCTION. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-7, means any of the following:
      (1)   Fabrication of any part of an industrialized building system or
mobile structure for use at another site;
      (2)   Erection or assembly of any part of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure
at the site where it will be used;
      (3)   Installation of any part of the permanent heating, ventilating, air
conditioning, electrical, plumbing, sanitary, emergency detection, emergency
communication, or fire or explosion suppression systems for a Class 1 or Class
2 structure at the site where it will be used;
      (4)   Work undertaken to alter, remodel, rehabilitate, or add to any part
of a Class 1 or Class 2 structure; or
      (5)   Work undertaken to relocate any part of a Class 1 or Class 2
structure, except a mobile structure.
   INDUSTRIALIZED BUILDING SYSTEM. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-14, means any part
of a building or other structure that is in whole or in substantial part
fabricated in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly
at the building site as part of a Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or
another building or structure. However, the term does not include a mobile
structure or a system that is capable of inspection at the building site.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-16, has the meaning set forth in
42 U.S.C. § 5402 as it existed on January 1, 1984. This definition is as
follows: MANUFACTURED HOME means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or
40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical
systems contained therein; except that the term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
complies with the standards established under this 42 U.S.C. § 5402.
   MOBILE STRUCTURE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-17, has the following definition:
      (1)   MOBILE STRUCTURE means any part of a fabricated unit that is
designed to be:
         (a)   Towed on its own chassis; and
         (b)   Connected to utilities for year-round occupancy or use as a
Class 1 structure, a Class 2 structure, or another structure.
      (2)   The term includes the following:
         (a)   Two or more components that can be retracted for towing purposes
and subsequently expanded for additional capacity; and
         (b)   Two or more units that are separately towable but designed to be
joined into one integral unit.
   PERSONS. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-18, means an individual, corporation,
limited liability company, partnership, unincorporated association, or
governmental entity.
   STRUCTURE. Both Class 1 and Class 2 structures, unless specifically stated
otherwise.
   VEHICULAR BRIDGE. Pursuant to I.C. 22-12-1-26, means any bridge that is
neither:
      (1)   A pedestrian walkway; nor
      (2)   A passageway for light vehicles; suspended between two or more
parts of a building or between two or more buildings.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.005 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alterations, repair,
use, occupancy, maintenance, and additions to all buildings and structures,
including fences, other than industrialized building systems or mobile
structures certified under I.C. 22-15-4, in the city.
(Prior Code, § 150.05) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.006 ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-3(b), the rules of the State Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission as set out in the following Articles of Title
675 of the State Administrative Code are hereby incorporated by reference in
this code and shall include any later amendments to those rules.
      (1)   Article 13—Building Code:
         (a)   Fire and Building Safety Standards; and
         (b)   The State Building Code.
      (2)   Article 14—State Residential Code;
      (3)   Article 16—State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Article 17—State Electrical Code;
      (5)   Article 18—State Mechanical Code;
      (6)   Article 19—State Energy Conservation Code;
      (7)   Article 20—State Swimming Pool Code; and
      (8)   Article 22—State Fire Code.
   (B)   Shall include the city’s amendments to those articles.
   (C)   Two copies of the above building rules incorporated by reference are
on file in the office of the Clerk for the legislative body for public
inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (D)   The Building Commissioner and the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission may grant a variance to the fire safety laws and building laws
adopted in this Building Code. Pursuant to I.C. 22-13-2-7(b), a variance
granted by the Building Commissioner is not effective until it has been
approved by Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Prior Code, § 150.06) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002; Ord. 0-02-0037, passed
- -2002)
§ 150.007 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   No permits shall be issued for the forgoing purposes, unless the
application for the permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications showing the
work to be done.
   (B)   All plans for building construction under the authority of the Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission of the state must also be filed with
the State Building Commissioner.
   (C)   No local permits shall be issued hereunder until a copy of a design
release from the State Building Commissioner and the State Fire Marshal is
received by the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 150.07) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.008 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration, or
repair of any building or structure, the cost of which exceeds an amount as set
by the city from time to time using forms furnished by the Building
Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 150.08) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002; Ord. 15-0025, passed
12-14-2015) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.009 OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in full compliance
with all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for
permits hereinafter provided for, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in
the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 150.09) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.010 FEES.
   Permits required by §
150.007 hereof shall be issued upon prior payment of fees according to the
adopted ordinance establishing application fees for building and all other
permits covered under this code, and all fees required by this code shall be
paid to the city.
(Prior Code, § 150.10) (Ord. 0-02-0017, passed - -2002; Ord. 0-02-0036, passed
- -2002; Ord. 13-0031, passed 10-14-2013) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.011 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the
floodplain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed
repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the floodplain area having special flood
hazards to ensure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure, flood damage; and
      (3)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Prior Code, § 150.11) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.012 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   After the issuance of any building permits hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work
being done under the permits as are necessary to ensure full compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and the terms of the permit.
   (B)   Re-inspections of work found to be incomplete or not ready for
inspection are subject to assessment of re-inspection fees as prescribed by
this code.
(Prior Code, § 150.12) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.013 FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS; REPORTS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, or his or her designated representative,
shall assist the Building Commissioner in the inspection of fire suppression,
detection, and alarm systems and shall provide reports of the inspection to the
Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 150.13) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.014 ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonably times any building
structure or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this code.
(Prior Code, § 150.14) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.015 STOP WORK ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on
any persons engaged in the doing or causing the work to be done, and any
persons shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Prior Code, § 150.15) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.016 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered,
or repaired after the adoption of this chapter shall be issued unless the
building or structure was erected, altered, or repaired in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any building or
structure unless a full, partial, or temporary certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 150.16) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.017 STANDARDS.
   All work on the construction, alteration, and repair of buildings or other
structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner according to
accepted standards and practices in trade.
(Prior Code, § 150.17) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.018 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any
building or structure, including fences, in the city or cause or permit the
same to be done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 150.18) (Ord. 0-02-0017, passed - -2002; Ord. 0-02-0036, passed
- -2002) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.019 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Building Commissioner’s
decision first to the Board of Public Safety of the city; and then to the State
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission in accordance with the
provisions of I.C. 22-13-2-7.
(Prior Code, § 150.19) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.020 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall in the name of the city bring actions in the
County Circuit or Superior Courts for mandatory and injunctive relief in the
enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders, made by the
Building Commissioner, and any action for mandatory or injunctive relief may be
joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.20) (Ord. 0-02-0036, passed - -2002)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person, firm, or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall
fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the
Building Commissioner, or shall fail, neglect, or refuse to obey any lawful
order given by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of
this chapter, for each violation, failure, or refusal, the person, firm, or
corporation shall be fined in an amount as set by the city from time to time.
   (B)   Each day of the unlawful activity as is prohibited by division (A)
above shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 150.99) (Ord. 0-02-0017, passed - -2002; Ord. 0-02-0036, passed
- -2002)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING AND STRUCTURE WRECKING
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Permit required; definitions
   
151.002   Storage of salvaged materials
   
151.003   Exemptions
   
151.004   Protection of persons and property during wrecking and repairing
   
151.005   Fences or barricades
   
151.006   Bridges or sidewalk covers
   
151.007   Fans
   
151.008   Construction of fences, fans, and bridges
   
151.009   Wrecking operations
Building Wreckers
   
151.020   License
   
151.021   Sale of materials
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 PERMIT REQUIRED; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Permit required. A wrecking permit shall be required for the wrecking
or removal of all masonry buildings and for all frame buildings which are over
one story in height and which are less than ten feet from a street or alley
line. A fee of an amount as set by the city from time to time shall be charged
for the permit. Application for a wrecking permit shall be made to the Building
Commissioner. The application shall be in duplicate and shall give accurately
all the information which is thereon required. A plot plan, drawn to scale,
shall be furnished for buildings where barricades or bridges are required,
showing the building on the lot and the distances to street, alley, and
property lines, with width of adjacent sidewalks. The barricade, fence, or
bridge required by this code shall be shown and specified in its proper
position relative to the building, and complete details of its construction
shall be followed. The application shall state the type of construction of the
building, its height and number of stories, and shall state the method to be
used in the wrecking, together with other information as the Building
Commissioner may reasonably require. No permit shall be issued for wrecking
buildings unless the application is signed by the owner of the property and is
verified by affidavit authorizing the wrecking company to obtain the permit for
the demolition of the building referred to in statements contained in the
application. No permit for the wrecking of any building or other structure
shall be issued except to a person licensed under the provisions of this
chapter, provided, that a permit may be issued, for the wrecking of a minor
building or structure, as hereinafter defined, to the owner of the premises
upon which minor building or structure shall be located. The work or operation
of building wrecking under a permit issued to an owner of a minor building or
structures shall be performed or executed by the owner or the employees or
servants of the owner acting under his or her supervision and direction, but
shall not be done by an independent contractor unless the independent
contractor shall be a licensed building wrecker under the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MINOR BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any masonry building not over one story in
height and five thousand cubic feet in volume above the grade line.
      OWNER. Any person holding title and possession of the land upon which the
building or structure to be wrecked is located by virtue of a deed, real estate
contract, or lease for more than three years.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 151.002 STORAGE OF SALVAGED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No building, structure, place, or lot shall hereafter be established
and used for the storage of used, secondhand, or salvaged building material,
building equipment, and building appurtenances, unless a permit authorizing the
establishment has first been obtained from the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   No permit shall be granted for any establishment in any block on any
street in which one-half of the buildings on both sides of the street are used
exclusively for residence purposes, unless the consent in writing of the
owners, or the duly authorized agents of the owners, owning 50% of the frontage
of the property on both sides of the street in the block in which the business
is to be established shall first have been obtained.
   (C)   Written consent shall be filed with the Building Commissioner before a
permit shall be granted under this section; provided, that no permit shall be
issued for any establishment within Fire Zone No. 1, and provided further, that
no permit shall be issued which shall in any way conflict with the zoning
regulations of the city.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 151.003 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to wrecking of minor
buildings or structures as hereinbefore defined nor to the wrecking or removal
of 50% or less of any building or structure incidental to or necessary in
connection with repair, alteration, or enlargement of the building or
structure.
(Prior Code, § 151.03)
§ 151.004 PROTECTION OF PERSONS AND PROPERTY DURING WRECKING AND REPAIRING.
   Whenever a building or structure abutting a street, alley, or sidewalk is
dismantled, removed, or extensively repaired, suitable protection shall be
provided for persons using the streets and for adjacent property. Protection
shall be a fence or barricade, fan, or sidewalk bridge or cover, as provided in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.04) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 151.005 FENCES OR BARRICADES.
   Fences or barricades shall be required for buildings not over 40 feet high
adjacent to street and alley lines and for higher buildings 15 or more feet
from the lines. For buildings not exceeding 22 feet in height, the fence shall
not be less than seven feet from the building. For buildings exceeding 22 feet
in height, fences or barricades shall not be less than six feet in height,
shall not be less than nine feet from the building and shall be built of three-
quarter-inch boards laid tight together and securely fastened to four-inch by
four-inch uprights, set not over four feet apart with two-inch by four-inch
bracing and girts. The posts shall be securely set and braced to prevent
buckling or over-turning. The fence shall be continued past each end of the
building a distance equal to the required distance from the face of the
building and returned back to the property line at each end, but no fence shall
extend beyond the lot line of the property upon which the building is located
without the consent of the adjoining owner. Wherever the fence cannot be
continued past the end of the building the required distance, a sidewalk cover
or other effective protection shall be provided to guard the public from
falling materials. Fences may be omitted where the building is set back 20 feet
from the street or alley line. For buildings over 40 feet high similar fences
may be used if located 15 feet or more from the building, except, that the
boards on the fence shall be nominal two-inch plank. Fans shall also be
provided at each alternate story unless the fence is at least 25 feet from the
building. In the storage of materials or erection of fences or barricades, care
shall be taken to leave fire hydrants easily accessible.
(Prior Code, § 151.05) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 151.006 BRIDGES OR SIDEWALK COVERS.
   Bridges or sidewalk covers shall be provided over all sidewalks or alleys in
all cases where it is not permissible to use a fence as required in §
151.005. The cover or bridge for sidewalks, streets or alleys shall not be less
than eight feet wide overall and the inner edge shall be located not less than
seven feet from the exterior wall of the building. The frame of the bridge
shall be designed to carry at least 150 pounds per square foot and the top deck
shall be designed to carry not less than 250 pounds per square foot. Nominal
two-inch planking shall not span more than three feet. The roof of the bridge
shall be made watertight and suitable provision shall be made for lighting the
walk under the bridge by means of 40 watt electric lights placed 12 feet on
center. The clear ceiling height above the sidewalk under the bridge shall not
be less than eight feet, six inches, except the lower ends of knee braces which
shall be located not less than six feet, six inches above the sidewalk. The
inner wall of the bridge shall be sheathed with nominal two-inch plank from the
sidewalk to the top of the bridge. A substantial two-inch plank barricade not
less than four feet high shall be provided on the outer edge of the roof and
shall be well braced. Posts shall be knee braced in both directions by two by
six-inch pieces at an angle of 45 degrees or by any other equally effective
method. Posts may be set directly on concrete sidewalk, but if there is no
concrete sidewalk, suitable mud sills and stringers shall be provided for posts
and a temporary tight two inch plank sidewalk for the full width of the bridge
shall be provided the full length of the bridge. There shall be no handrails or
other obstruction on the outer edge of the bridge. Where desired, an iron or
structural steel bridge may be constructed in place of the wooden bridge herein
required, but the steel bridge shall be of equivalent strength and dimensions
and shall be subject to the approval of the Building Commissioner in each case.
(Prior Code, § 151.06) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 151.007 FANS.
   In wrecking or extensively remodeling buildings over 40 feet high, fans
shall be provided at each alternate story level in addition to fences and
bridges required herein. Fans shall project from the side of the building not
less than six feet, and shall be designed for a live load of 100 pounds per
square foot for a distance of five feet out from the wall line. The lookouts or
supports shall be not less than two by 12-inch joists spiked together and
spaced not over eight feet on center, cantilevered on the wall and adequately
anchored to beams, girders, or joists of the building with steel cables or
bolts of sufficient strength to withstand the maximum load which can be applied
to the fan outside of the building. The entire area of the fan shall be floored
with two-inch plank laid tight and solid plank guard rails three feet in height
shall be provided on the outer edge and the ends of the fan rigidly braced and
secured to lookouts.
(Prior Code, § 151.07) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 151.008 CONSTRUCTION OF FENCES, FANS, AND BRIDGES.
   All materials used in the construction of fences, barricades, fans, and
bridges shall be clean, sound, and free from decay or other defects which would
seriously impair the strength of the same. Posts, beams, joists, and lookouts
shall be one continuous piece and splicing shall be prohibited. All parts of
the construction shall be well spiked or bolted to develop the strength of the
structural members. All temporary sidewalk covers or fences erected on public
property in accordance with these provisions which remain in place longer than
30 days shall be painted on all surfaces exposed to public view with at least
one coat of suitable oil paint. Signs may be painted thereon descriptive of the
building, the name, and business of prospective tenants and the name, address,
and business of the owner or lessee. Signs shall cover not more than one-half
of the street side of the barricade, bridge, or fence. No banner or temporary
sign shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 151.08) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 151.009 WRECKING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   After obtaining a permit from the Building Commissioner, as well as
the permission of the Board of Public Safety for occupancy of any public
property, the building wrecker shall proceed to erect all required protections
and shall then notify the Building Commissioner to inspect the same, before
proceeding with wrecking operations. The building wrecker or building wrecking
permittee shall be held liable for compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and other laws and ordinances pertaining to wrecking of buildings and
shall also be liable for the acts of subcontractors or other persons who do any
work or removal or destruction in the wrecking of the building or structure.
The methods to be used in wrecking shall not involve undue hazards to the
public or unnecessary danger to the workers and shall be in accordance with
good practice. Suitable provisions shall be made for the disposal of materials
which are accumulated during the wrecking operations. No part of the structure
shall be overloaded by excessive storage of materials or debris. Chutes,
scaffolds, derricks, and hoists shall be strong and substantial and safe for
the purpose for which the same are intended. Materials which in their removal
would cause an excessive amount of dust shall be well wet down to prevent the
creation of a nuisance. No open fires or other sources of flame except
necessary cutting torches shall be used in the inside of the building being
wrecked, nor in close proximity to inflammable materials outside of the
buildings and every precaution shall be taken to prevent the possibility of
fire. The requirements of this section shall be the minimum requirements for
average conditions and in the case of unusual or dangerous situations, adequate
provisions shall be made and every precaution taken to protect the safety of
the public and workers. The Building Commissioner is given authority to stop
the wrecking of any building within the city, wherever in his or her judgment
the same is being done in a reckless, careless, or unsafe manner or in
violation of the law or ordinance.
   (B)   When any work shall have been so stopped the same shall not be resumed
until the Building Commissioner shall have been satisfied that all precautions
shall be taken for the protection of life and property and that the work shall
be prosecuted in a safe manner and in conformity with the ordinances of the
city. At the completion of all wrecking, the lot shall be cleaned of all
rubbish and debris accumulated in the course of wrecking and the lot leveled
off so as to leave no unsightly condition. Any basements, cellars, or other
excavations shall be filled in and leveled off with new earth puddled and
tamped to ensure the minimum of settling or shall be fenced off, all to the
approval of the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 151.09) Penalty, see §
10.999
BUILDING WRECKERS
§ 151.020 LICENSE.
   (A)   Required. No person shall engage in the business of wrecking buildings
or other structures in the city without first having obtained a building
wrecker’s license from the Building Commissioner and the Board of Public Safety
authorizing the holder thereof to carry on or engage in business.
(Prior Code, § 151.20)
   (B)   Application; fee; issuance; bond.
      (1)   The annual fee for a building wrecker’s license shall be in an
amount as set by the city from time to time. Any person who desires a building
wrecker’s license shall first make application to the Building Commissioner on
a form prescribed by the city. The Building Commissioner shall investigate the
qualifications of the applicant and if he or she finds them satisfactory and
that the applicant is reputable and competent, he or she shall approve the
application and recommend the issuance of a building wrecker’s license to the
City Controller. No building wrecker’s license shall be issued until the
applicant therefor shall have shown satisfactory evidence that he or she has
the necessary knowledge, experience, equipment, and storage facilities to
conduct wrecking operations properly. If the City Controller has been satisfied
that the applicant has paid the required license fee to the City Treasurer and
has furnished the bond herein required, he or she shall issue a building
wrecker’s license.
      (2)   Before the building wrecker’s license is issued, the applicant
shall furnish and deliver to the City Controller an indemnity bond of an amount
as set by the city from time to time, with the surety as is approved by the
City Controller, conditioned on the faithful performance of the provisions of
this chapter and other applicable laws and ordinances, and indemnifying the
city for any damage to public sidewalks, streets, or curbs which may occur in
the course of wrecking any building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 151.21)
   (C)   Insurance. All wrecking contractors licensed under this subchapter
shall be required to obtain and to file with the City Controller, a
certificate, issued by a duly authorized officer of a responsible insurance
company authorized to do business in this state, showing that the licensee has,
in full force and effect:
      (1)   Worker’s compensation covering all employees on any work done
within the city;
      (2)   Public liability insurance in an amount as set by the city from
time to time for one person or $300,000 for one accident;
      (3)   Property damage insurance in an amount as set by the city from time
to time; and
      (4)   Worker’s compensation, public liability, and property damage
insurance shall be kept in full force and effect during the entire licensed
period. Certificates to that effect shall be annually submitted to the City
Controller.
(Prior Code, § 151.22)
   (D)   Scope. The license issued under the terms of this subchapter shall
authorize the licensee to engage in the wrecking of buildings or other
structures and the storing and disposing of or selling the materials obtained
through the wrecking of buildings or structures to the extent the storage and
disposition are not contrary to law. It is unlawful for any person licensed
hereunder to engage in the business of buying, selling, or dealing in house
wrecking materials, secondhand building materials, and secondhand building
appliances and appurtenances not obtained through the wrecking of buildings or
other structures by the licensee or obtained from a person not licensed under
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.23)
Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 151.021 SALE OF MATERIALS.
   Every license issued under the terms of this subchapter shall state the
location of the main office and storage yard of the licensee. It is unlawful
for the licensee to offer for sale, sell, or dispose of salvage materials
obtained from the wrecking of buildings or structures except at the main
office, storage yard, or on the wrecking job of the licensee from which the
materials have been obtained.
(Prior Code, § 151.24) Penalty, see §
10.999
CHAPTER 152: HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
   
152.001   Definitions
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Applicability
   
152.004   Sanitation, water, and heating
   
152.005   Light and ventilation
   
152.006   Space, use, and location
   
152.007   Exits
   
152.008   Maintenance
   
152.009   Roominghouses; hotels
   
152.010   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
152.011   Designation of unfit dwellings and legal procedure of condemnation
   
152.012   Reports of violations
   
152.013   Notice of violations
   
152.014   Hearings on violations
   
152.015   Order to repair or demolish
   
152.016   Effect of failure to receive notice or order
   
152.017   Emergencies
§ 152.001 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, but having
less than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
      BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of buildings of the city or his
or her authorized representative.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located, partly or wholly, underground,
and having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below
the average grade of the adjoining ground.
      DWELLING. Any building which is, wholly or partly, used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided, that temporary
housing, as hereinafter defined, shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping, or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods
approved by the Health Officer.
      FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the fire force of the city or his or her
authorized representatives assigned to the Fire Prevention Bureau.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers, or communicating
corridors, closets, and storage space.
      HEALTH OFFICER or DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH. The legally designated
health authority of the city or his or her authorized representative.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents, or other pests.
      LET. To give another person the right to occupy any portion of dwelling
unit or rooming unit. The act of LETTING shall be deemed to be a continuing act
for so long as the persons given the right to occupy premises continue to do
so. A further LETTING by any occupant of a portion of a dwelling unit or
rooming unit is also a LETTING by the owner or operator of the dwelling.
      MULTIPLE-DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating in or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or a rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building or
part thereof in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others:
         (a)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (b)   Shall have charge, care, or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
or administratrix, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any person
thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions
of this chapter, and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the
same extent as if he or she were the owner.
      PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes,
water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower
baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and any
other similar supplied fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer,
or gas lines.
      PREMISES. All areas, including but not limited to yards, outbuildings,
and courts.
      ROOMINGHOUSE. Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units in which space is let, for a valuable consideration, by the
owner or operator to three or more persons who are not husband or wife, son or
daughter, mother or father, or sister or brother of the owner or operator, but
any child lawfully under the care of any of the above members of a family shall
not be deemed a roomer.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage,
and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke,
and other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metal, mineral
matter, glass, crockery, and dust.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
   (B)   Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, ROOMINGHOUSE, ROOMING
UNIT, or PREMISES are used in this chapter, they shall be constructed as though
they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
(Prior Code, § 152.01)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to protect public health, safety,
comfort, morals, and welfare of the people within the city by establishing the
following for all buildings used for housing:
   (A)   Minimum standards for cooking, heating, and sanitary equipment
necessary and expedient to promote health, suppress disease, and protect safety
of occupants of buildings;
   (B)   Facilities for ventilation, light, space, and means of egress which
promote health and preserve safety;
   (C)   Minimum standards of maintenance and responsibilities of owners,
agents, and occupants of dwellings for maintenance which promote health and
safety and aid in the enforcement of standards; and
   (D)   Minimum standards essential to health, safety, and welfare which are
uniform in application to all dwellings whenever constructed, so that with the
resulting uniformity, simplicity, and certainty, owners, operators, and tenants
are better able to determine the applicability of this chapter and the law to
them and this chapter and the laws applicable to housing shall be
administratively more convenient to enforce.
(Prior Code, § 152.02)
§ 152.003 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter is applicable to occupancy for residential purposes of any
building, whether or not the building was erected, altered, or converted in
full or substantial compliance with ordinances in force at the time of its
erection, alteration, or conversion, and whether or not the building was
erected, altered, or converted prior to the effective date of this chapter.
Whenever any ordinance imposes higher standards of health and safety than the
standards imposed by this chapter, this chapter shall not make a continued
violation of the ordinance legal, nor does this chapter permit any building
which complies with the ordinance to be altered or converted, as to either
structure or occupancy, to conform to any lower standards imposed by this
chapter. Every building constructed, altered, or converted after the effective
date of this chapter shall comply with the applicable provisions of the
Building Code in effect at the time and a building shall not be occupied for
residential purposes unless it also complies with any higher standards imposed
by this chapter. The requirements imposed by this chapter shall be in addition
to other applicable requirements for existing buildings imposed by other
provisions of this chapter and applicable requirements regarding garbage and
trash, nuisances, and air pollution provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 152.03)
§ 152.004 SANITATION, WATER, AND HEATING.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, nor shall any person let or hold
out to another for occupancy any dwelling unit which does not comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (A)   Every unit shall contain within its walls a room, separate from the
habitable rooms, which affords privacy and which is equipped with a flush water
closet in good working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer
system, approved by the Health Officer and Building Commissioner.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit shall contain within its walls a lavatory basin to
be located in the same room as the required water closet or as near to that
room as practicable.
   (C)   Every dwelling unit shall contain within its walls a room, separate
from the habitable rooms, which affords privacy to a person in the room and
which is equipped with a bathtub or shower in good working condition and
properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the Health Officer
and Building Commissioner.
   (D)   Every dwelling unit shall contain within its walls a kitchen sink in
good working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system
approved by the Health Officer and Building Commissioner.
   (E)   Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin and bathtub, or shower required
under the provisions of divisions (B), (C), and (D) above shall be properly
connected with both hot and cold water lines.
   (F)   Every dwelling unit shall have heating facilities which are capable of
safely and adequately heating all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and water closet
compartments within its walls to a temperature of at least 70°F when the
outside temperature is -10°F. Gas appliances designed primarily for cooking or
water heating purposes shall not be considered as heating facilities within the
meaning of this section. Portable heating equipment employing flame and the use
of gasoline as a fuel does not meet the requirements of this section and is
prohibited. The owner may require that the occupant shall provide the required
heating facilities at the occupant’s expense, but the agreement or requirement
does not relieve the owner from responsibility for the presence of heating
equipment in the dwelling unit.
   (G)   Every dwelling unit or rooming unit to which heat is furnished from a
heating plant used in common for the purpose of heating the various rooms of
the dwelling shall be supplied with heat from September 15 of each year to June
1 of the succeeding year so that the occupants of a dwelling unit or rooming
unit may secure, without undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere with
proper sanitary conditions, a minimum temperature of 70°F.
   (H)   Every kitchen sink, lavatory, and bathtub, or shower required by this
chapter shall be connected with both cold and hot water lines. The hot water
lines shall be connected with water heating facilities which are capable of
heating water to a temperature as to permit water to be drawn at every required
outlet at a temperature of not less than 120°F even when the dwelling unit
heating facilities required by this code are not in operation.
   (I)   Every dwelling unit or rooming unit to which hot water is furnished
from water heating facilities used in common shall be supplied with hot water
throughout the year, so that the occupants may draw water at every hot water
outlet between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:30 p.m. of a minimum temperature
of 120°F.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 152.005 LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or shall let or hold out to another
for occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit which does not comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (A)   All habitable rooms, other than a kitchen, must be provided with a
means for transmitting natural light from outside complying with the following
requirements.
      (1)   The area required for transmitting light from the outside shall be
computed on the basis of clear glass measured as to the nominal glass
dimensions. A material other than clear glass may be used, but the required
area then shall be that necessary to provide the equivalent of clear glass
lighting.
      (2)   The required clear glass area shall not be less than 10% of the
floor area of the room, and not less than ten square feet. The effective area
shall be computed at not more than 80% of the actual area when a required
natural light area:
         (a)   Faces a wall or other obstruction at a distance of less than ten
feet; or
         (b)   Is located below a roof or other obstruction projecting more
than four feet from the face of the window or other natural light area and the
plane from the head to the outside of the projection forms an angle with the
horizontal of less than 45 degrees.
      (3)   Whenever a habitable room has natural light area openings from the
room to enclosed porch, the area shall not be counted as a required light area
unless the enclosed porch has a natural light area of not less than three times
the required light area opening from the room to the porch.
   (B)   Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight type of window in the
top of the room, the total window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15%
of the total floor area of the room.
   (C)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can easily be opened or another device as will adequately ventilate the room.
The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal to at
least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight type window size,
as required in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   Mechanical or gravity ventilation shall be deemed to be adequate if it
is a system approved by the Health Officer and Building Commissioner.
   (E)   A kitchen with a floor area of less than 70 square feet may be without
either natural or mechanical ventilation if there is an opening of not less
than 32 square feet between the kitchen and another room in the same dwelling
unit and if the room into which the kitchen opens has the ventilation
requirements of divisions (A) through (D) above.
   (F)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms contained in divisions
(A) through (E) above; except, that no window or skylight shall be required in
bathrooms and water closet compartments equipped with a ventilation system
which may be kept in continuous operation and approved by the Health Officer
and Building Commissioner.
   (G)   Every habitable room shall have an approximately central ceiling
outlet or at least two convenience outlets; except, that a bathroom or toilet
room shall have at least one electric outlet in the ceiling or wall. All
electrical outlets and switches shall meet standards as prescribed in the
Electrical Code.
   (H)   Every room intended for laundry, workshop, furnace, or play purposes
and every inside stairway and passageway shall be provided with electrical
outlets and switches that meet the standards as prescribed in the Electrical
Code.
   (I)   Every multiple-dwelling shall have all fire exits, stairways, and
passages thereto and all exits and stairways from the portions of the structure
to which the public has access shall be marked and illuminated as described and
specified in Chapter 34 of the Building Rules and Regulations of the State
Administrative Building Council.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 152.006 SPACE, USE, AND LOCATION.
   No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with
the requirements of divisions (A) through (F) below.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 125 square feet of floor
area for each of the first two occupants and at least 100 square feet for each
additional occupant thereof, the floor space to be calculated on the basis of
total habitable room area.
   (B)   In every dwelling unit of two or more rooms, every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor space. Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor space for each
occupant.
   (C)   No dwelling unit containing two or more sleeping rooms shall have room
arrangements that access to a bathroom or water closet compartment intended for
use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be had only by going
through another sleeping room; nor shall room arrangements be such that access
to a sleeping room can be had only by going through another sleeping room or a
bathroom or water closet compartment.
   (D)   (1)   At least 75% of the floor area of every habitable room on the
main floor shall have a ceiling height of at least eight feet.
      (2)   On the second story and higher, a ceiling height of at least seven
feet, six inches is required; under sloping roofs at least 50% of the floor
area of every habitable room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven
feet, six inches; and the floor area of that part of any room, when the ceiling
height is less than five feet, shall not be considered as part of the floor
area in computing the total floor area of the room for the purpose of
determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
   (E)   No cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit.
   (F)   No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit
unless:
      (1)   The ceiling height is a minimum of six feet, ten inches clear under
overhead obstructions;
      (2)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness;
      (3)   The finish floor below the adjoining outside finish grade does not
exceed a maximum two feet, six inches at required windows;
      (4)   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least the
minimum window area as required in §
152.005(A);
      (5)   The required minimum window area is located entirely above the
grade of the ground adjoining window area; or
      (6)   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the minimum as required under §
152.005(C), except where some other device is supplied, affording adequate
ventilation and approved by the Building Commissioner and Health Officer.
(Prior Code, § 152.06) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 152.007 EXITS.
   No person shall occupy as an owner-occupant or shall let or hold out to
another for occupancy any dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit which does
not comply with the following provisions.
   (A)   Every dwelling, dwelling unit, and rooming unit shall have safe,
unobstructed means of egress leading to safe and open space at ground level at
all times. No passage through any part of another dwelling unit or rooming unit
shall constitute a legal means of egress.
   (B)   Where four or more dwelling units or rooming units per floor
contribute to a common stairway, each of the dwelling units and rooming units
so contributing shall have two separate means of egress from that floor.
   (C)   In any building four or more stories in height, every dwelling unit
and rooming unit in the building shall have two separate means of egress from
the floor on which the dwelling unit or rooming unit is located.
   (D)   In any building three or less stories in height and where three or
less dwelling units or rooming units on any floor contribute to a common
stairway, then that stairway must have a one-hour fire rating.
   (E)   With the exception of division (H) below, nothing in this section is
intended to require more than one means of egress from any first floor dwelling
unit or rooming unit.
   (F)   With the exception of division (H) below, nothing in this section is
intended to require more than two means of egress from any single-family
structure.
   (G)   In order to qualify as an adequately fire retarded exit or means of
egress, the construction of the exit or means of egress must comply with the
following:
      (1)   If the property is located in Fire Zones I or II and the stairway
is not enclosed, the soffits, railings, stringers, underside of platforms, and
porches must be protected with or constructed of, at least one- hour fire
resistant materials;
      (2)   If the property is located in Fire Zones I or II and the stairway
is enclosed, the walls, ceilings, soffit of stairs, stringers, railings,
underside of platforms, and porches must be protected with or constructed of at
least one-hour fire resistant material;
      (3)   If the property is located in Fire Zone III and the stairway is not
enclosed, closed risers are required; and
      (4)   If the property is located in Fire Zone III and stairway is
enclosed, the soffits and underside of platforms and porches must be protected
with or constructed of at least one-hour fire resistant material.
   (H)   Where hazardous conditions exist because of the number, width,
construction, or location exists, the Building Commissioner may order
additional exits or rearrangement of existing exits or greater fire retardation
construction of exits so as to assure adequate safety of the occupants of the
structures.
(Prior Code, § 152.07)
§ 152.008 MAINTENANCE.
   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or shall let or hold out to another
for occupancy any dwelling or dwelling units, for the purpose of living
therein, which is not safe, clean, sanitary, and fit for human occupancy or
habitation, and which does not comply with the particular requirements of §§
152.004 and
152.007 and this section.
   (A)   The foundation, exterior walls, and exterior roof shall be
substantially watertight and protected against rodents and shall be kept in
sound condition and repair:
      (1)   The foundation elements shall adequately support the building at
all points;
      (2)   Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or
rotting boards or timbers, and any other conditions which might admit rain or
dampness to the interior portions of the walls or to the exterior spaces of the
dwelling;
      (3)   The roof shall be tight and have no defects which admit rain and
roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent rain water from causing dampness in
the walls;
      (4)   The dwelling shall be in a rat-stopped condition and adequately
protected against the entry of other rodents; and
      (5)   All cornices, rustication, quoins, moldings, belt courses, lintels,
sills, oriel windows, pediments, and similar projections shall be kept in good
repair and free from cracks and defects which make them hazardous and
dangerous.
   (B)   Every floor, interior wall, and ceiling shall be adequately protected
against the passage of rodents, and shall be kept in sound condition and good
repair:
      (1)   Every floor shall be free of holes and wide cracks which might
admit rodents or which constitute a possible accident hazard;
      (2)   Every floor shall be free of loose, warped, protruding, or rotting
floorboards;
      (3)   Every interior wall and ceiling shall be free of holes and large
cracks;
      (4)   Every interior wall and ceiling shall be free of loose plaster or
other structural material, the collapse of which might constitute an accident
or hazard;
      (5)   Plaster, paint, and all other surface materials shall be of a
character as to be easily cleanable and reasonably smooth, clean, and tight;
and
      (6)   Every toilet room and bathroom floor surface shall be substantially
impervious to water and be capable of being maintained easily in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (C)   Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway shall be
substantially tight, and shall be kept in sound condition and repair:
      (1)   Every window shall be fully supplied with window panes which are
without open cracks or holes;
      (2)   Every window sash shall be in good condition and fit reasonably
tight within its frame;
      (3)   Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be capable or being
easily opened and shall be held in position by window hardware;
      (4)   Every exterior door, door hinge, and door latch shall be in good
condition;
      (5)   Every exterior door, when closed, shall fit reasonably well within
its frame;
      (6)   Every window, door, and frame shall be constructed and maintained
in relation to the adjacent wall construction as completely to exclude rain and
substantially to exclude wind from entering the dwelling;
      (7)   Every basement hatchway shall be so constructed and maintained as
to prevent the entrance of rodents, rain, and surface water into the dwelling;
and
      (8)   Every door available as an exit shall be capable of being opened
from the inside, easily and without the use of a key.
   (D)   Screens shall be supplied to the following extent:
      (1)   Every basement or cellar window which is openable shall be supplied
with a heavy wire screen or hardware cloth of not less than four mesh per inch
which fits tightly and is securely fastened to the frame or with any other
material affording equivalent protection against the entry of rodents; and
      (2)   From April 15 to November 15 of each year, every door opening
directly from any dwelling unit to the outdoors and every window or other
outside opening used for ventilation purposes, shall be supplied with a screen
of not less than 16 mesh per inch, and every screen door shall have a self-
closing device in good working condition; provided, that the screens shall not
be required during the period in rooms deemed by the Health Officer to be
located high enough in the upper stories of the buildings as to be free from
insects.
   (E)   Every stairway, inside or outside of the dwelling, and every porch,
shall be kept in safe condition and sound repair:
      (1)   Every flight of stairs and every porch floor shall be free of
holes, grooves, and cracks which are large enough to constitute possible
accident hazards;
      (2)   Every stairwell and every flight of stairs, which is more than two
risers high, shall have rails not less than two and one-half feet high,
measured vertically from the nose of the tread to the top of the rail; and
every porch which is more than two risers high shall have rails not less than
three and one-half feet above the floor of the porch;
      (3)   Every rail and balustrade must be firmly fastened and maintained in
good condition;
      (4)   No flight of stairs shall have settled more than one inch out of
its intended position or have pulled away from supporting or adjacent
structures;
      (5)   No flight of stairs shall have rotting, loose, or deteriorating
supports;
      (6)   The treads of every flight of stairs shall be uniform in height;
      (7)   Every stair tread shall be sound and be securely fastened in a
substantially level position;
      (8)   Every stair tread shall be strong enough to bear a concentrated
load of at least 400 pounds without danger of breaking;
      (9)   Every porch shall have a sound floor; and
      (10)   No porch shall have rotting, loose, or deteriorating supports.
   (F)   Every basement and every cellar shall be maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition:
      (1)   Water shall not be permitted to accumulate or stand on the floor;
      (2)   All sewer connections shall be properly trapped;
      (3)   All cellar and slab drains shall be covered with grating; and
      (4)   Junk, rubbish, and waste shall not be permitted to accumulate to an
extent as to create fire hazards or to endanger health or safety.
   (G)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or utility, and every
chimney and chimney flue, shall be installed and maintained in a safe and sound
working condition.
   (H)   Every yard, court, vent passageway, and other portion of the lot on
which the dwelling stands shall be graded and drained so as to prevent the
accumulation of stagnant water on any surface.
(Prior Code, § 152.08) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 152.009 ROOMINGHOUSES; HOTELS.
   No person shall operate a roominghouse or let to another for occupancy any
rooming unit unless the rooming unit complies with §§
113.001 through
113.006 and with the minimum standards set forth in §§
152.004 through
152.008 and this section.
   (A)   Every roominghouse and every rooming unit shall be in compliance with
the minimum standards for dwelling units set forth in:
      (1)   Section
152.004 on minimum standards for heating;
      (2)   Section
152.004 on minimum standards for hot and cold water lines, water heating
facilities, and continuation of service;
      (3)   Section
152.005 on minimum standards for light and ventilation;
      (4)   Section
152.007 on minimum exit requirements and standards;
      (5)   Section
152.006 on space, use, and location, except for the provisions of §
152.006(A) of that section;
      (6)   Section
152.008 on minimum standards for safe and sanitary maintenance; and
      (7)   Chapter 13, § 1307 through 1309 of the Building Rules and
Regulations of the Administrative Building Council of the state, being I.A.C.
Title 660, on enclosures of vertical openings, fire extinguishing apparatus,
and special hazards.
   (B)   (1)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or
shower, properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the Health
Officer and Building Commissioner, and in good working condition, shall be
supplied for each ten persons or fraction of ten within a roominghouse,
including members of the family of the owner if they share the use of the
facilities.
      (2)   All facilities shall be located within the dwelling so as to be
reasonably accessible from a common hall or passageway to all persons sharing
the facilities and shall not be more than one story removed from the rooming
unit of any occupant intended to share the facilities. In a roominghouse in
which rooms are let only to males, flush urinals may be substituted for not
more than 33 and one-third percent of the required number of water closets. In
a roominghouse where both sexes are accommodated, the water closets shall be
separately calculated on the occupancy of each sex and shall be in compartments
separated for use of each sex, except where not more than one water closet is
required.
   (C)   Every operator of a roominghouse shall be responsible for the
following matters required by this chapter. Extermination of insects, rodents,
or other pests in it or in its yard; disposal of refuse by placing it in
disposal facilities supplied by him or her; hanging and removing all screens
required; sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings; maintenance
of a sanitary condition in every part of the roominghouse; and proper
installation and repair of every facility.
   (D)   The operator of every roominghouse shall supply bed linen and towels
therein at least once each week and prior to the letting of any room to another
occupant. The operator shall be responsible for the maintenance of all supplied
bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (E)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall
contain at least 70 square feet of floor area and every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by more than three persons shall contain at least 50 square
feet of floor area for each occupant thereof.
   (F)   Every provision of this chapter which applies to roominghouses shall
also apply to hotels, except to the extent that any provision may be found in
conflict with the laws of this state or with the lawful regulations of any
state board or agency.
(Prior Code, § 152.09) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 152.010 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   In addition to other applicable provisions of this chapter, owners and
occupants shall comply with the respective responsibilities imposed upon them
by this section.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit must:
      (1)   Keep that part of the dwelling unit which he or she occupies and
controls in a clean, sanitary, and safe condition;
      (2)   Keep the supplied plumbing fixtures therein clean and sanitary and
be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in their proper use and
operation;
      (3)   If a resident in a single-family dwelling unit, exterminate any
insects, rodents, or other pests therein or on the premises, and if resident in
a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more than one family exterminate
insects, pests, and rodents whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one
in the dwelling infested, except as provided in division (B)(3) below;
      (4)   Dispose of all garbage, trash, and other refuse only in the
containers required and in the manner prescribed in §§
55.001 through
55.061;
      (5)   Hang and remove all screens required for his or her dwelling unit
by this chapter unless the owner has agreed to supply the service;
      (6)   Not place on the premises any material which causes a fire hazard
or otherwise endangers the health or safety of any occupant of the dwelling nor
place in storage on the premises any furniture, equipment, or material which
harbors insects, rodents, or other pests;
      (7)   Not permit any dwelling unit let to him or her to be occupied so
that any occupancy resulting therefrom violates any of the provisions of this
chapter;
      (8)   Provide heating facilities for that part of the dwelling unit he or
she occupies unless the facilities are provided by the owner. Gas appliances or
water heating facilities shall not be considered as heating facilities within
the meaning of this section; and
      (9)   Every plumbing fixture furnished by the occupant of a dwelling unit
shall be properly installed and shall be maintained in good working condition,
kept clean and sanitary, and free of defects, leaks, or obstructions.
   (B)   Every owner or operator must:
      (1)   Comply with the requirements imposed on him or her by this chapter;
      (2)   Maintain in a clean, sanitary, and safe condition the shared or
public areas of the dwelling or premises, and maintain and repair any equipment
of a type specified in this chapter which he or she supplies or is required to
supply;
      (3)   Exterminate any insects, rodents, or other pests in any dwelling
unit if infestation is caused by the failure of the owner or operator to
maintain the dwelling in a ratproof or reasonable insect proof condition and he
or she must exterminate the pests in any dwelling unit in the dwelling,
regardless of the cause of infestation if infestation exists in two or more of
the dwelling units in the dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units;
      (4)   Supply and maintain the facilities for refuse disposal which are
required of him or her by §§
55.001 through
55.011,
55.025 through
55.033,
55.045 through
55.049,
55.060, and
55.061;
      (5)   Supply bed linen and towels therein at least once each week and
prior to the letting of any room to another occupant. The operator shall be
responsible for the maintenance of all supplied bedding in a clean and sanitary
manner; and
      (6)   No owner shall shut off or shall cause to have discontinued or
disconnected provided utilities for any occupied dwelling unit except where the
interruption of utility service is necessary while in the actual process of
making repairs or during temporary emergencies for which repairs are being
arranged.
(Prior Code, § 152.10) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 152.011 DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS AND LEGAL PROCEDURE OF CONDEMNATION.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and procedure for the condemnation and placarding of unfit dwellings or
dwelling units shall be carried out in compliance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to have any of the
following defects shall be condemned as unfit for human habitation and shall be
so designated and placarded by the Building Commissioner:
      (1)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, insanitary, unsafe,
or vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of
the occupants or of the public;
      (2)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation, or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public; or
      (3)   One which, because of its general condition or location, is
insanitary or otherwise dangerous to the health or safety of the occupants or
of the public.
   (B)   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human habitation
and so designated and placarded by the Building Commissioner shall be vacated
within a reasonable time as ordered by the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and placarded as
unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until
written approval is secured from and the placard is removed by the Building
Commissioner. The Building Commissioner shall remove the placard whenever the
defect or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based
have been eliminated.
   (D)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or
dwelling unit which has been condemned as unfit for human habitation and
placarded as such, except as provided in division (C) above.
   (E)   Any person affected by any notice or order relating to the condemning
and placarding of a dwelling or dwelling unit as unfit for human habitation may
result and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the Board of Public
Safety under the procedure set forth in §
152.014.
(Prior Code, § 152.11) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 152.012 REPORTS OF VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the powers and duties granted the Building Commissioner, the
Electrical Inspector, the Plumbing Inspector, the City Health Officer and the
Fire Inspector, it shall be the duty of the aforementioned inspectors to report
to the Building Commissioner all violations of the standards as prescribed in
this chapter that are observed by them in the course of their existing duties
as inspectors as prescribed by this code. Every occupant of a dwelling unit
shall give the owner thereof or his or her agent or employee access to any part
of the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, or building used as a dwelling on
the premises at all reasonable times and hours for the purpose of making
repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.12)
§ 152.013 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Commissioner determines that there are
reasonable grounds to believe, due to inspections made by his or her Department
or by one of the other inspectors as described in §
152.012, that there has been a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter which affects the safety or health of the general public or occupants
of any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building used as a dwelling or
premises, he or she shall give notice of the alleged violation to the person
responsible therefor and to any known agent of the person as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing;
      (2)   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
      (3)   Allow reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      (4)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent or the occupant, as
the case may require; provided, that the notice shall be deemed to be properly
served upon the owner or agent or upon the occupant if a copy thereof is served
upon him or her personally or if a copy thereof is sent by registered mail to
his or her last known address or if a copy thereof is posted in a conspicuous
place in or about the dwelling affected by the notice or if he or she is served
with notice by any other method authorized or required under the laws of this
state; and
      (5)   Contain an outline of remedial action which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.13)
§ 152.014 HEARINGS ON VIOLATIONS.
   Any person affected by any notice issued by the Building Commissioner under
§
152.013 may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
Board of Public Works and Safety. If the notice is issued due to violations
that have been reported by Inspectors other than those working under the
supervision of the Building Commissioner, then a representative of the
Department employing the reporting Inspector shall be in attendance at the
hearing. The person shall file in the office of the Building Commissioner
within ten days after service of the notice, a written petition requesting a
hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the grounds therefor. Upon
receipt of the petition the Building Commissioner shall arrange a time and
place for the hearing and shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. A
hearing shall be held as soon as practicable after the receipt of request
therefor. At the hearing the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be
heard and to show cause why the notice should not be complied with. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the Board shall have the right either to sustain or
overrule the action of the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 152.14)
§ 152.015 ORDER TO REPAIR OR DEMOLISH.
   (A)   Issuance. If, after a hearing, the Board of Public Works and Safety
determines that the dwelling or building under consideration is dangerous or
unfit for human habitation, then the Building Commissioner shall, within ten
days, issue and shall cause to be served upon the owner of the building or
dwelling an order, ordering him or her either to restore the building or
dwelling to a state of satisfactory repair within a reasonable time or to
demolish the building within 60 days.
(Prior Code, § 152.15)
   (B)   Compliance.
      (1)   If the owner of a building or dwelling fails to comply with the
order to repair, alter, or improve or to vacate and close the building or
dwelling, the Building Commissioner shall cause to be posted on the main
entrance to any building or dwelling so closed a placard with the following
words: “This building is dangerous and unfit for human habitation. The use or
occupation of this building for human habitation or any other purpose, is
prohibited and unlawful.”
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish
the building, the Building Commissioner may cause the building to be removed or
demolished.
(Prior Code, § 152.16)
§ 152.016 EFFECT OF FAILURE TO RECEIVE NOTICE OR ORDER.
   Failure on the part of any owner or party in interest to receive or have
served upon him or her any complaint, notice, or order herein provided for,
shall not affect or invalidate the proceedings with respect to any other owner
or party in interest or any other person.
(Prior Code, § 152.17) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 152.017 EMERGENCIES.
   Whenever the City Health Officer finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health he or she may, without
notice or hearing, issue an order citing the existence of an emergency and
requiring that the action be taken as he or she deems necessary to meet the
emergency and so inform the Building Commissioner. Notwithstanding the other
provisions of this chapter, the order shall be effected immediately. Any person
to whom an order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but upon
petition to the Director of Public Health shall be given a hearing as soon as
possible in the manner provided in §
152.014. After the hearing, depending upon the finding as to whether the
provisions of this chapter have been complied with, the Board shall continue
the order to modify it or revoke it.
(Prior Code, § 152.18)
CHAPTER 153: CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS
Section
Wage Scales
   
153.001   Prevailing wage scales required
   
153.002   Qualified personnel
   
153.003   Labor classifications
   
153.004   Minimum wage rates and job classifications to equal teamsters rates
   
153.005   Compliance required
   
153.006   Filing of payroll record required
   
153.007   Applicability
WAGE SCALES
§ 153.001 PREVAILING WAGE SCALES REQUIRED.
   For any maintenance, improvement, and construction contracts having an
estimated value of an amount as set by the city from time to time awarded by a
municipal utility of the city, it shall be required that a contractor or
subcontractor pay for each class of work on the project a scale of wages that
may not be less than the prevailing scale of wages being paid in the immediate
locality.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. 0-94-0002, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 153.002 QUALIFIED PERSONNEL.
   The contractor and subcontractor shall utilize qualified personnel typically
used by area water departments that are experienced in the crafts necessary to
perform the services called for, and must meet the city’s qualifications to
perform the work.
(Prior Code, § 153.02) (Ord. 0-94-0002, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 153.003 LABOR CLASSIFICATIONS.
   A classification of the labor to be employed in the performance of the
contract for the project shall be divided into the following three classes:
   (A)   Skilled labor;
   (B)   Semiskilled labor; and
   (C)   Unskilled labor.
(Prior Code, § 153.03) (Ord. 0-94-0002, passed - -1994)
§ 153.004 MINIMUM WAGE RATES AND JOB CLASSIFICATIONS TO EQUAL TEAMSTERS RATES.
   Minimum wage rates and job classifications shall be equal to the Teamsters
rates set forth below:
   (A)   Skilled labor. The fees below are subject to change at the discretion
of the city.
 
                          Straight    Overtime
                          Time        Hourly Rate
                          Hourly Rate
Assistant to distribution $14.94      $22.41
supervisor
Dump truck driver         $11.02      $16.53
Foreperson                $12.78      $19.17
Locator, trouble          $10.85      $16.28
shooter
Master meter repair       $11.53      $17.30
Working foreperson        $12.07      $18.11
 
   (B)   Semiskilled labor.
 
                           Straight    Overtime
                           Time        Hourly Rate
                           Hourly Rate
Leak truck driver          $11.70      $17.55
Leak truck helper          $10.56      $15.84
Master meter repair helper $10.33      $15.50
Truck driver               $10.56      $15.84
 
   (C)   Unskilled labor.
 
              Straight    Overtime
             Time        Hourly Rate
              Hourly Rate
Helper        $10.04      $15.06
Labor trainee $8.56       $12.84
 
(Prior Code, § 153.04) (Ord. 0-94-0002, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 153.005 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   A provision shall be made a part of and a condition of the contract that a
contractor and subcontractor shall comply with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.05) (Ord. 0-94-0002, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 153.006 FILING OF PAYROLL RECORD REQUIRED.
   The municipal corporation thereof letting any contract shall require any
contractor or subcontractor performing public work to file a copy of its
payroll record for personnel on the project every week with the city’s
Affirmative Action Officer in the Human Rights Department.
(Prior Code, § 153.06) (Ord. 0-94-0002, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
10.999
§ 153.007 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall not apply to public projects in the city where funds
granted by the federal government are subject to federal law and rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 153.07) (Ord. 0-94-0002, passed - -1994)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Statutory authorization
   
154.002   Findings of fact
   
154.003   Statement of purpose
   
154.004   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
154.005   Definitions
Application of Provisions
   
154.020   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
154.021   Basis for establishing area of special flood hazard
   
154.022   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
154.023   Compliance
   
154.024   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.025   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevation
   
154.026   Interpretation
   
154.027   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
154.040   Designation of Administrator
   
154.041   Floodplain development permit and certification requirements
   
154.042   Duties and responsibilities of Administrator
   
154.043   Administrative procedures
   
154.044   Map maintenance activities
   
154.045   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.060   Floodplain status standards
   
154.061   General standards
   
154.062   Specific standards
   
154.063   Specific standards for coastal high hazard areas
   
154.064   Standards for subdivision proposals and other new developments
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The State Legislature has, in I.C. 36-1-4-11 granted the power to local
government units to control land use within their jurisdictions. Therefore, the
Common Council does hereby adopt the floodplain management regulations set out
in this chapter.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation which
results in loss of life and property, health, and safety hazards, disruption of
commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare. Additionally, structures
that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss. In order to minimize the threat of
such damages and to achieve the purposes hereinafter set forth, these
regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located
in floodplains;
   (E)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
area;
   (F)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (G)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (H)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (I)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (J)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (K)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure with a floor area of 400 square feet or
less that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure and the
use of which is incidental to the use of the principal structure; an ACCESSORY
STRUCTURE specifically excludes structures used for human habitation.
      (1)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are considered walled and roofed where the
structure includes at least two outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof.
      (2)   Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES include but are not necessarily
limited to two-car detached garages (or smaller), carports, storage and tool
sheds, and small boathouses.
      (3)   The following may have uses that are incidental or accessory to the
principal structure on a parcel but are generally not considered to be
ACCESSORY STRUCTURES by the NFIP:
         (a)   Structures in which any portion is used for human habitation,
whether as a permanent residence or as temporary or seasonal living quarters,
such as a detached garage or carriage house that includes an apartment or guest
quarters, or a detached guest house on the same parcel as a principal
residence;
         (b)   Structures used by the public, such as a place of employment or
entertainment; and
         (c)   Development that does not meet the NFIP definition of a
structure for floodplain management purposes. Examples include, but are not
necessarily limited to, a gazebo, pavilion, picnic shelter, or carport that is
open on all sides (roofed but not walled).
   ADDITION TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other modification which may alter,
impede, retard, or change the direction and/or velocity of the flow of water
during conditions of the base flood.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the floodplain administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter, a request for a variance, or a
challenge of a board decision.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land within a community subject to a 1% or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the 1% annual chance
flood or 100-year flood.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the base flood in
relation to a specified datum, usually the North American Vertical Datum of
1988.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BEST AVAILABLE FLOOD LAYER (BAFL). Floodplain studies and any corresponding
floodplain maps prepared and/or approved by the State Department of Natural
Resources which provide base flood elevation information floodplain limits,
and/or floodway delineations for flood hazards identified by approximate
studies on the currently effective FIRM (Zone A) and/or for waterways where the
flood hazard is not identified on available floodplain mapping.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended though its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the structure.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. The area is designated on a FIRM as Zone Vl-30, VE, VO, or V.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the areas within its jurisdiction.
   DEVELOPMENT. For floodplain management purposes, any human-made change to
improved or unimproved real estate including but not limited to:
      (1)   Construction, reconstruction, or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
      (2)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
      (3)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction of
roads, or similar projects;
      (4)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements, and the like;
      (5)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation, or drilling
operations;
      (6)   Construction and/or reconstruction of boat lifts, docks, piers, and
seawalls;
      (7)   Construction and/or reconstruction of, bridges or culverts;
      (8)   Storage of materials; or
      (9)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   DEVELOPMENT. Does not include activities such as the maintenance of existing
structures and facilities such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing roads; or,
gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do not involve
filling, grading, excavation, or the construction of permanent structures.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A FEMA form that is routinely reviewed and approved
by the White House Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork
Reduction Act, being Pub. L. No, 96-511, that is encouraged to be used to
collect certified elevation information.
   ENCLOSED AREA (ENCLOSURE). An area of a structure enclosed by walls on all
sides.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR and ENCLOSED AREA.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FILL. For floodplain management purposes, any material deposited or placed
which has the effect of raising the level of the ground surface above the
natural grade elevation. FILL material includes but is not limited to
consolidated material such as concrete and brick and unconsolidated material
such as soil, sand, gravel, and stone.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. 
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source; and/or
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
FLOODING and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of
normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of water and
deposited along the path of the current.
      (2)   FLOOD or FLOODING also includes the collapse or subsidence of land
along the shore of a lake or similar body of water as a result of erosion or
undermining caused by waves or current of water exceeding anticipated cyclical
levels that result in a FLOOD, as defined in division (1) above.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Areas subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See SPECIAL
FLOOD HAZARD AREA).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM and
the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOODPLAIN).
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The BFE plus two feet at any given location in
the SFHA. For sites within a SFHA designated as “Zone AO,” the BFE is
equivalent to the flood depth specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map,
measured from the highest adjacent grade. If no flood depth is specified, two
feet is used as the minimum depth. (See FREEBOARD).
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See FLOOD).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance, and erosion control
ordinance), and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. The term describes such state or local regulations in any
combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of flood damage
prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING (DRY FLOODPROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is watertight to the floodproofed design elevation with walls that
are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulative increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE or FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances of this chapter, the exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The City
Board of Zoning Appeals requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual, and
peculiar to the property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is
not exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preferences, or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by an
approved state program as determined by the Secretary of Interior, or directly
by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved programs.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. Analyses performed by a
professional engineer licensed by the state, in accordance with standard
engineering practices that are accepted by the State Department of Natural
Resources and FEMA, used to determine the base flood, other frequency floods,
flood elevations, floodway information and boundaries, and flood profiles.
   INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL-EVALUATION SERVICE (ICC-ES) REPORT. A document
that presents the findings, conclusions, and recommendations from a particular
evaluation. ICC-ES REPORTS provide information about what code requirements or
acceptance criteria were used to evaluate a product, and how the product should
be identified, installed.
   LATTICE WORK. See BREAKAWAY WALL.
   LETTER OF FINAL DETERMINATION (LFD). A letter issued by FEMA during the
mapping update process which establishes final elevations and provides the new
flood map and flood study to the community. The LFD initiates the six-month
adoption period. The community must adopt or amend its floodplain management
regulations during this six-month period unless the community has previously
incorporated an automatic adoption clause.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FEMA maps that can be accomplished by
letter. They are broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). FEMA’s comment on a
proposed project that would, upon construction, result in modification of the
SFHA through the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
      (2)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (CLOMR-F). A
letter from FEMA stating that a proposed structure that will be elevated by
fill would not be inundated by the base flood.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment by letter to the
currently effective FEMA map that establishes that a building or land is not
located in a SFHA through the submittal of property specific elevation data. A
LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT OUT AS SHOWN (LOMA-OAS). An official
determination by FEMA that states the property or building is correctly shown
outside the SFHA as shown on an effective NFIP map. Therefore, the mandatory
flood insurance requirement does not apply. An OUT-AS-SHOWN determination does
not require elevations.
      (5)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the
currently effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones,
delineations, and elevations.
      (6)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA’s modification
of the SFHA shown on the FIRM based on the placement of fill outside the
existing regulatory floodway.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support, or basement
entryway immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. For floodplain management purposes, the lowest elevation
described among the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor of a building;
      (2)   The basement floor;
      (3)   The garage floor if the garage is connected to the building;
      (4)   The first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or pillars;
      (5)   The floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement, below an
elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to
the flow of floodwaters, Designs for meeting the flood opening requirement must
either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or meet
or exceed the following criteria:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters;
and
         (b)   At least two openings are designed and maintained for the entry
and exit of floodwater; and these openings provide a total net area of at least
one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all
such openings shall be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the
interior grade immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher. Doorways
and windows do not qualify as openings.
      (6)   The first floor of a building elevated on pilings or columns in a
coastal high hazard area (as that term is defined in 44 C.F.R. 59.1), as long
as it meets the requirements of 44 C.F.R. 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is twofold: to protect people and structures, and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATURAL GRADE. For floodplain management purposes, the elevation of the
undisturbed natural surface of the ground. Fill placed prior to the date of the
initial identification of the flood hazard on a FEMA map is also considered
NATURAL GRADE.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, any structure for
which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993, is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation, or other material in, along, across, or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard, or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. See REGULATORY FLOOD.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways, and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas, or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   PREFABRICATED BUILDING. A building that is manufactured and constructed
using prefabrication. It consists of factory-made components or units that are
transported and assembled on-site to form the complete building.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides
and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the PRIMARY FRONTAL
DUNE occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a relatively
steep slope to a mild slope.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, less land value, is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any location is
as defined in §
154.021. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE FLOOD, ONE-PERCENT
ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD, and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
city subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. SPECIAL
FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on
Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Insurance Studies as Zones A, AB, AH, AO,
Al-30, A99, or VE. The SFHA includes areas that are flood prone and designated
from other federal, state, or local sources of data including but not limited
to best available flood layer maps provided by or approved by the State
Department of Natural Resources, historical flood information reflecting high
water marks, previous flood inundation areas, and flood prone soils associated
with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of a slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally above ground.
      (1)   The term includes a manufactured home, as well as a prefabricated
building.
      (2)   It also includes recreational vehicles installed on a site for more
than 180 consecutive days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code requirements.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter consistent
with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter.
   WALLED AND ROOFED. A building that has two or more exterior rigid walls and
a fully secured roof and is affixed to a permanent site.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel, or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS
§ 154.020 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard (SFHAs) within
the jurisdiction of the city as identified in §
154.021, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
city.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.021 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city, delineated as an “AE Zone”
on the County and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated January 26,
2023 shall be determined from the 1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood
Insurance Study of the county and incorporated areas and the corresponding
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) dated January 26,2023 as well as any
subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date. Should the floodway limits not be
delineated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for a studied SFHA designated as an
“AE Zone,” the limits of the floodway will be according to the best available
flood layer as provided by the State Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation for the SFHAs of Lake Michigan,
delineated as a “VE Zone” on the County and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance
Rate Map dated January 26, 2023 shall be the highest elevation specified on the
FIRM among all flood zones affecting the proposed development, as well any
subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (C)   The regulatory flood elevation for the SFHAs of Lake Michigan,
delineated as a “AE Zone” on the County and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance
Rate Map dated January 26, 2023 shall be the highest elevation published on the
County and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated January 26, 2023
among all flood zones affecting the proposed development, as well as any
subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency with the most recent date.
   (D)   The regulatory flood elevation for each studied SFHAs within the
jurisdiction of the city, delineated as an “AH Zone” on the County and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map dated January 26, 2023 shall be
that elevation published on the County and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance
Rate Map dated January 26, 2023, as well as any subsequent updates, amendments,
or revisions prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most
recent date.
   (E)   (1)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits for
each of the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the city, delineated as an “A
Zone” on the County and Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map, dated
January 26, 2023, as well as any subsequent updates, amendments, or revisions,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the most recent date,
shall be according to the best available flood layer provided by the State
Department of Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the
subject site is greater than one square mile.
      (2)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available flood layer, the
party needs to replace existing data with better data that meets current
engineering standards.
      (3)   To be considered, this data must be submitted to the State
Department of Natural Resources for review and subsequently approved.
   (F)   (1)   The regulatory flood elevation for each SFHA within the
jurisdiction of the city, delineated as an “AO Zone” shall be that elevation
(or depth) published on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the County and
Incorporated Areas dated January 26, 2023, as well as any subsequent updates,
amendments, or revisions, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
with the most recent date.
      (2)   If no depth is specified on the FIRM, the community shall use two
feet as the minimum depth.
   (G)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway, and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood prone areas shall be according
to the best available flood layer as provided by the State Department of
Natural Resources, provided the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
   (H)   Upon issuance of a Letter of Final Determination (LFD), any more
restrictive data in the new (not yet effective) mapping/study shall be utilized
for permitting and construction (development) purposes, replacing all
previously effective less restrictive flood hazard data provided by FEMA.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.022 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.023 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of
this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the most conservative
(highest) base flood elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed
structure; or for other developments, affecting any part of the area of the
development.
   (C)   No land or stream within the SFHA shall hereafter be altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.024 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.025 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATION.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) with base flood elevations provided (riverine or lacustrine Zone AE or
Zone AH) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided
on the profiles or table of still water elevations shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the natural grade elevation of the site in question is at or above
the base flood elevation and a LOMA or LOMR-FW is obtained, the floodplain
regulations will not be applied provided the LOMA or LOMR-FW is not
subsequently superseded or invalidated.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.026 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.027 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the city, the State Department of Natural Resources,
or the state, for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter,
or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.040 DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Common Council of the city hereby appoints the City Planning Director to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter, and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.041 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to
the Floodplain Administrator for all development activities located wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with a special flood hazard area. Such
application shall be made by the owner of the property or his/her authorized
agent, herein referred to as the applicant, prior to the actual commencement of
such construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Such applications shall
include, but not be limited to plans drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, earthen fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required in the
application:
      (1)   Application stage, including:
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure(s) in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   For the reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of an
existing structure, or an addition to an existing building, a detailed quote
and description of the total work to be completed including but not limited to
interior work, exterior work, and labor as well as a certified valuation of the
existing (pre-improved or pre-damaged) structure;
         (e)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (f)   Verification that connection to either a public sewer system or
to an approved on-site septic system is available and approved by the
respective regulatory agency for proposed structures to be equipped with a
restroom, kitchen, or other facilities requiring disposal of wastewater;
         (g)   Plans showing elevation of the top of the planned lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed structures in Zones A, AE, AH. In Zone AO,
plans must show the height of the top of the lowest floor above the highest
adjacent grade. In Zones V or VE, plans must also show the elevation of the
bottom of the lowest supporting horizontal member. Elevation should be in NAVD
88;
         (h)   Plans showing elevation (in NAVD 88) to which any non-
residential structure will be floodproofed;
         (i)   Plans showing location and specifications for flood openings for
any proposed structure with enclosed areas below the flood protection grade;
         (j)   Plans showing materials to be used below the flood protection
grade for any proposed structure are flood resistant;
         (k)   Plans showing how any proposed structure will be anchored to
resist flotation or collapse;
         (l)   Plans showing how any electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities are designed
and/or located. Elevation should be in NAVD 88;
         (m)   Certification of structural design and methods of construction
for VE zone construction as required by §
154.063(B)(5);
         (n)   Certification of breakaway wall design, when applicable, as
provided in §
154.063(B)(5);
         (o)   Optional to insert specific requirement for engineering
considerations for placement of nonstructural fill and other nonstructural
development in VE zones (avoiding ramping, deflection, or transfer of flood
loads onto existing or proposed structures;
         (p)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development. A hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering analysis is required, and any watercourse changes
submitted to DNR for approval. Once DNR approval is obtained, a FEMA
Conditional Letter of Map Revision must be obtained prior to construction. (See
§§
154.042(B)(7)(d) and
154.044 for additional information.); and
         (q)   Any additional information, as requested by the Floodplain
Administrator, which may be necessary to determine the disposition of a
proposed development or structure with respect to the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Finished construction, including:
         (a)   Upon completion of construction of any structure requiring
certification of elevation, an elevation certificate which depicts the “as-
built” lowest floor elevation, or the placement of lowest supporting horizontal
member for structures in Zones V or VE, and other applicable elevation data is
required to be submitted by the applicant to the Floodplain Administrator. The
elevation certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor and certified by the same.
         (b)   Upon completion of construction of an elevated structure
constructed on fill, a fill report is required to be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator to verify the required standards were met, including
compaction.
         (c)   Upon completion of construction of a floodproofing measure, a
floodproofing certificate is required to be submitted by the applicant to the
Floodplain Administrator. The floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a registered professional engineer or architect
and certified by same.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.042 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Evaluate application for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas to assure that the permit requirements of this chapter have been
satisfied.
      (3)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information.
      (4)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance.
      (5)   Advise permittee that additional federal, state, and/or local
permits may be required. If specific federal, state, and/or local permits are
known, require that copies of such permits be provided and maintained on file
with the floodplain development permit.
      (6)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas,
must meet the development standards of these regulations.
      (7)   For applications to improve structures, including alterations,
movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions,
rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of substantial
damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator shall:
         (a)   Verify and document the market value of the pre-damaged or pre-
improved structure;
         (b)   Compare file cost to perform the improvement; or the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition; or, the combined costs
of improvements and repair, if applicable, to the market value of the
predamaged or pre-improved structure. The cost of all work must be included in
the project costs, including work that might otherwise be considered routine
maintenance. Items/activities that must be included in the cost shall be in
keeping with guidance published by FEMA to ensure compliance with the NFIP and
to avoid any conflict with future flood insurance claims of policyholders
within the community;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination
requires evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as
specified in the definition of “substantial improvement* for proposed work to
repair damage caused by flood, the determination requires evaluation of
previous permits issued to repair flood-related damage as specified in the
definition of substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the applicable general and specific standards in §§
154.060 through
154.064 are required.
      (8)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Floodplain Coordinator
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit copies of
such notifications to FEMA.
      (9)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to §
154.060 (A), (C)(1) and (D). Maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit/authorization or floodplain analysis/regulatory
assessment).
      (10)   Verify the upstream drainage area of any proposed development site
near any watercourse not identified on a FEMA map to determine if division (B)
(9) above is applicable.
      (11)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the floodcarrying capacity is not
diminished.
      (12)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
154.041.
      (13)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been floodproofed in accordance with §
154.041.
      (14)   Make on-site inspections of projects in accordance with §
154.043.
      (15)   Coordinate with insurance adjusters prior to permitting any
proposed work to bring any flood-damaged structure covered by a standard flood
insurance policy into compliance (either a substantially damaged structure or a
repetitive loss structure) to ensure eligibility for ICC funds,
      (16)   Ensure that an approved connection to a public sewer system or an
approved on-site septic system is planned for any structures (residential or
non-residential) to be equipped with a restroom, kitchen, or other facilities
requiring disposal of wastewater.
      (17)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
      (18)   Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work orders, revoke
permits, and take corrective actions in accordance with §
154.043.
      (19)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Change (LOMC),
copies of DNR permits, letters of authorization, and floodplain analysis and
regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit documents,
and “as-built” elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed
subject to this chapter in accordance with §
154.043.
      (20)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and associated FEMA follow-
up in accordance with §
154.041.
      (21)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Change (LOMC) or Physical
Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA maps of the
community.
      (22)   Request any additional information which may be necessary to
determine the disposition of a proposed development or structure with respect
to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.043 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the floodplain administrator shall make as many inspections of the
work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and terms of the permit. In exercising this
power, the administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper credential,
to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable
hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop work orders.
      (1)   Upon notice from the floodplain administrator, work on any
building, structure, or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of
the property, or to his agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state
the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (C)   Revocation of permits.
      (1)   The floodplain administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of this chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
      (2)   The floodplain administrator may revoke a permit upon determination
by the floodplain administrator that the construction, erection, alteration,
repair, moving, demolition, installation, or replacement of the structure for
which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in conformity with, the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Floodplain management records.
      (1)   Regardless of any limitation on the period required for retention
of public records, records of actions associated with the administration of
this chapter shall be kept on file and maintained under the direction of the
Floodplain Administrator in perpetuity. These records include permit
applications, plans, certifications, Flood Insurance Rate Maps; Letter of Map
Change; records of issuance of permits and denial of permits; determinations of
whether proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of
substantial damage; required design certifications and documentation of
elevations required by this chapter; notifications to adjacent communities,
FEMA, and the state related to alterations of watercourses; assurances that the
flood carrying capacity of altered watercourses will be maintained;
documentation related to appeals and variances, including justification for
issuance or denial; and records of enforcement actions taken pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   These records shall be available for public inspection at the City
Council Office, located at 4525 Indianapolis Boulevard, East Chicago, IN 46312.
   (E)   Periodic inspection. Once a project is completed, periodic inspections
may be conducted by the Floodplain Administrator to ensure compliance. The
Floodplain Administrator shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credential, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of the
department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.044 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet NFIP minimum requirements to have flood data reviewed and approved
by FEMA, and to ensure that the city’s flood maps, studies, and other data
identified in §
154.021 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have required
technical data for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision or Letter of Map
Revision and submitted to FEMA. The State Department of Natural Resources will
review the submittals as part of a partnership with FEMA. The submittal should
be mailed to the State Department of Natural Resources at the address provided
on the FEMA form (MT-2) or submitted through the online Letter of Map Change
website. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall be the
responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a Conditional Letter of
Map Revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for
proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood elevation.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a Letter of Map
Revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to this section,
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator may request changes to any of the
information shown on an effective map that does not impact floodplain or
floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such as labeling or planimetric
details.
      (2)   Such a submission shall include appropriate supporting
documentation made in writing by the Mayor of the city and may be submitted to
FEMA at any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the city have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the County and Incorporated Areas Flood
Insurance Rate Map accurately represent the city boundaries, include within
such notification a copy of a map of the city suitable for reproduction,
clearly showing the new corporate limits or the new area for which the city has
assumed or relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.045 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Board of Zoning Appeals (“the Board”) as established by the
Common Council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision, or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter. Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal such decision to the County
Circuit or Superior Courts.
   (C)   In considering such applications, the Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (8)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (9)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters at the site; and
      (10)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (E)   Variances from the provisions of this chapter shall only be granted
when the board can make positive findings of fact based on evidence submitted
at the hearing for the following:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship as defined in §
154.005.
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public,
or conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (F)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §
154.060(A), (C)(1), or (D) may be granted.
   (G)   (1)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §
154.060(A), (C)(1), or (D) will require a permit from the State Department of
Natural Resources.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated regulatory
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.
   (H)   Variances to the Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction of §§
154.060 through
154.064 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures” upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an “historic
structure” and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
   (J)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use.
   (K)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (L)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (M)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the Flood Protection Grade and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (N)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the State Department of Natural Resources upon request.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.060 FLOODPLAIN STATUS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Floodways (riverine). 
      (1)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
154.041, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris,
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. Under the provisions of the
Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1) a permit for construction in a floodway from
the State Department of Natural Resources is required prior to the issuance of
a local building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction, or
obstruction activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation
activities such as filling, grading, clearing, and paving undertaken before the
actual start of construction of the structure. General licenses and exemptions
to the requirements of the Flood Control Act (I.C. 14-28-1 and 312 I.A.C. 10)
may apply to qualified additions/improvements to existing lawful residential
structures, rural bridges, logjam removals, wetland restoration, utility line
crossings, outfall projects, creek rock removal, and prospecting.
      (2)   If the site is in a regulatory floodway as established in §
154.021, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant to forward
the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the
State Department of Natural Resources and apply for approval for construction
in a floodway, provided the activity does not qualify for a general license or
exemption (I.C. 14-28-1 or 312 I.A.C. 10).
      (3)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
approval has been granted by the State Department of Natural Resources for
construction in the floodway, or evidence provided by an applicant that the
development meets specified criteria to qualify for a general license or
exemption to the requirement of the Flood Control Act. The Floodplain
Development Permit shall meet the provisions contained in this article.
      (4)   The Floodplain Development Permit cannot be less restrictive than
an approval issued for construction in a flood way issued by the State
Department of Natural Resources, or the specified criteria used to qualify for
a general license or exemption to the Flood Control Act for a specific site/
project. However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if any) shall
take precedence.
      (5)   In floodway areas identified on the FIRM, development shall cause
no increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge
without first obtaining a Conditional Letter of Map Revision and meeting
requirements of §
154.044(A). A Conditional Letter of Map Revision cannot be issued for
development that would cause an increase in flood levels affecting a structure
and such development should not be permitted.
      (6)   In floodway areas identified by the State Department of Natural
Resources through detailed or approximate studies but not yet identified on the
effective FIRM as floodway areas, the total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
shall not adversely affect the efficiency of, or unduly restrict the capacity
of the floodway. This adverse effect is defined as an increase in the elevation
of the regulatory flood of at least fifteen-hundredths (0.15) of a foot as
determined by comparing the regulatory flood elevation under the project
condition to that under the natural or pre-floodway condition as proven with
hydraulic analyses.
      (7)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees) the city shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data per mapping standard
regulations found at 44 C.F.R. § 65.12.
   (B)   Fringe (riverine). If the site is in the fringe (either identified on
the FIRM or identified by the State Department of Natural Resources through
detailed or approximate studies and not identified on a FIRM), the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local Floodplain Development Permit provided the
provisions contained in this section have been met.
   (C)   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodways/
fringes (riverine).
      (1)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
         (b)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the State Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended Flood Protection Grade
has been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
         (c)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper
written approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain
analysis/regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from the
State Department of Natural Resources, a Floodplain Development Permit may be
issued, provided the conditions of the Floodplain Development Permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the State Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
      (2)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
         (a)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of
the floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area
upstream of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the
limits of the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
         (b)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
Floodplain Development Permit, provided the provisions contained in this
section have been met.
   (D)   SFHAs not identified on a map.
      (1)   If a proposed development site is near a waterway with no SFHA
identified on a map, the Floodplain Administrator shall verify the drainage
area upstream of the site. If the drainage area upstream of the site is
verified as being greater than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator
shall require the applicant to forward the application, along with all
pertinent plans and specifications, to the State Department of Natural
Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
written approval from the State Department of Natural Resources (approval for
construction in a floodway, letter of authorization, or evidence of general
license qualification) or a floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment citing
the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the recommended Flood Protection Grade
has been received from the State Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper written
approval, evidence of general license qualification, or floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment approving the proposed development from file State
Department of Natural Resources, a Floodplain Development Permit may be issued,
provided the conditions of the Floodplain Development Permit are not less
restrictive than the conditions received from the State Department of Natural
Resources and the provisions contained in this section have been met.
   (E)   Coastal high hazard areas. Areas in/around Lake Michigan are
designated as coastal high hazard areas as established in §
154.021. These areas have special flood hazards associated with wave wash, A
person, other than a public or municipal water utility, may not place, fill, or
erect a permanent structure in; remove water from; or remove material from a
navigable waterway without a permit from the State Department of Natural
Resources (I.C. 14-19-1). Once a permit or approval has been issued by the
State Department of Natural Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
the local Floodplain Development Permit provided the applicable provisions in
this section have been met.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.061 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction, reconstruction, or repairs made to a repetitive
loss structure (optional), and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG;
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements must incorporate methods
and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (D)   (1)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above the FPG for
residential structures. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be located at/above
the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components below the FPG for non-residential structures.
      (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible
pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be located below the FPG;
   (E)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding;
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter;
   (I)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres;
   (J)   Where an existing or proposed structure or other development is
affected by multiple flood zones, by multiple base flood elevations, or both,
the development activity must comply with the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the most restrictive flood zone and the highest base flood
elevation affecting any part of the existing or proposed structure; or for
other developments, affecting any part of the area of the development;
   (K)   Drainage paths must be provided to guide floodwaters around and away
from proposed structures to be constructed on slopes in areas of shallow
flooding, designated as Zone AO or Zone AH on the FIRM; and
   (L)   Fill projects that do not involve a structure must be protected
against erosion and scour during flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk
heading, If vegetative cover is used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three
feet horizontal to one foot vertical.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.062 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data or
flood depths have been provided (other than coastal high hazard areas), as set
forth in §
154.021, the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Building protection requirement. In addition to the general standards
described in §
154.061, structures to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood
damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement applies to the
following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a residential structure;
      (2)   Construction or placement of a non-residential structure;
      (3)   Addition or improvement made to an existing structure where the
cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
existing structure (excluding the value of the land). An addition and/or
improvement project that is continuous in scope or time is considered as one
project for permitting purposes;
      (4)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred (the costs of any proposed additions or
improvements beyond restoring the damaged structure to its before damaged
condition must be included in the cost);
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site; and
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
   (B)   Residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structures shall meet provisions described in Article 5, Section A and
applicable general standards described in
154.061.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor; including basement,
at or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate
a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (B)
(5) below. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of
division (B)(6) below must be met.
      (3)   In Zone AH, new construction or substantial improvement of any
residential structure shall have the lowest floor; including basement, at or
above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (B)
(5) below. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of
division (B)(6) below must be met. Drainage paths must be provided to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures to be constructed on
slopes.
      (4)   In Zone AO, new construction or substantial improvement of any
residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
two feet greater than the flood depth specified on the FIRM above the highest
adjacent grade. If no flood depth is specified, the community shall use two
feet as the minimum depth. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements
of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division
(B)(5) below. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of
division (B)(6) below must be met. Drainage paths must be provided to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures to be constructed on
slopes.
      (5)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Flood openings
must be designed and certified by a registered design professional (requires
supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES Report), or
meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings: Provide a
minimum of two openings on different sides of an enclosure. If more than one
enclosed area is present, each must have openings on exterior walls (having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of
enclosed area);
         (b)   1.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening;
            2.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
         (c)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (6)   A residential structure may be constructed on fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing
compliance shall be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Fill shall extend 15 feet beyond the foundation of the structure
before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot
vertical; and
         (d)   Fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (7)   A residential structure may be constructed using a stem wall
foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-
wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation (also called chain wall,
raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-stem-wall-with-fill) must be backfilled with
compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor slab. No
flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (C)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvement of any non-residential
structures (excludes accessory structures) shall meet provisions described in
Article 5, Section A and applicable general standards described in Article 5,
Section B.
      (2)   In Zone A and Zone AE, new construction, or substantial improvement
of any commercial, industrial, or non-residential structure (excludes accessory
structures) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
or above the FPG or be floodproofed to or above the FPG Should solid foundation
perimeter walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movements of floodwaters shall be provided in
accordance with the standards of division (C)(5) below. Should fill be used to
elevate a structure, the standards of division (C)(6) below must be met.
      (3)   In Zone AH, new construction or substantial improvement of any non-
residential structure (excludes accessory structures) shall have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated at least to the FPG or be floodproofed to
or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of
floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of divisions (C)
(5) below. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of
division (C)(6) below must be met. Drainage paths must be provided to guide
floodwaters around and away from proposed structures to be constructed on
slopes.
      (4)   In Zone AO, new non-residential construction or substantial
improvements of any non-residential structure (excludes accessory structures)
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two
feet greater than the flood depth number specified on the FIRM (If no flood
depth number is specified, two feet shall be used as the flood depth.) above
the highest adjacent grade. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements
of floodwaters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division
(C)(5) below. Should fill be used to elevate a structure, the standards of this
subchapter. division (C)(6) below must be met. Drainage paths must be provided
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures to be constructed
on slopes; or
      (5)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the flood protection grade shall meet the following requirement:
         (a)   Designed to preclude finished living space and designed to allow
for the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters to equalize hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls. Flood openings must be designed and installed in
compliance with criteria set out in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. Flood openings
must be designed and certified by a registered design professional (requires
supporting engineering certification or make/model specific ICC-ES Report), or
meet the following criteria for non-engineered flood openings: Provide a
minimum of two openings on different sides of an enclosure. If more than one
enclosed area is present, each must have openings on exterior walls (having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of
enclosed area);
         (b)   1.   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot
above the higher of the final interior grade (or floor) and the finished
exterior grade immediately under each opening;
            2.   Doors and windows do not qualify as openings; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or
other coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions.
         (c)   The floor of such enclosed area must be at or above grade on at
least one side.
      (6)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed on fill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   Shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep before
compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the Standard or
Modified Proctor Test method. The results of the test showing compliance shall
be retained in the permit file;
         (b)   Shall extend 15 feet beyond the foundation of the structure
before sloping below the BFE;
         (c)   Shall be protected against erosion and scour during flooding by
vegetative cover, riprap, or bulk heading. If vegetative cover is used, the
slopes shall be no steeper than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical;
         (d)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties;
      (7)   A nonresidential structure may be floodproofed in accordance with
the following: A Registered Professional Engineer or Architect shall certify
that the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures, and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator.
      (8)   (a)   A nonresidential structure may be constructed using a stem
wall foundation (also called chain wall, raised-slab-on-grade, and slab-on-
stem-wall-with-fill). Any backfilled stem wall foundation must be backfilled
with compacted structural fill, concrete, or gravel that supports the floor
slab.
         (b)   No flood openings are required for this type of construction.
   (D)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   These requirements apply to all manufactured homes to be placed on
a site in the SFHA:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse, and lateral movement.
         (b)   Fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior
walls below the FPG shall be designed to preclude finished living space and
designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required for elevated
structures in Article 5, Section C(2)(e).
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site in the SFHA shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days and be fully licensed and
ready for use on a public highway (defined as being on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and
security devices, and has no permanently attached additions); or
         (b)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated in this
section.
   (E)   Accessory structures. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of
an accessory structure must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Shall have a floor area of 400 square feet or less;
      (2)   Use shall be limited to parking of vehicles and limited storage;
      (3)   Shall not be used for human habitation;
      (4)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
      (5)   Shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (6)   Shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (7)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed to or above the FPG; and
      (8)   Shall be designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls as required
for elevated structures in division (C)(5) above; and
      (9)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the structure from its continued designation as an accessory
structure.
   (F)   Free-standing pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar
development. Within SFHAs, new construction or placement of free-standing
pavilions, gazebos, decks, carports, and similar development must meet the
following standards:
      (1)   Shall have open sides (having not more than one rigid wall);
      (2)   Shall be anchored to prevent flotation or lateral movement;
      (3)   Shall be constructed of flood resistant materials below the FPG;
      (4)   Any electrical, heating, plumbing, and other service facilities
shall be located at/above the FPG;
      (5)   Shall not have subsequent additions or improvements that would
preclude the development from its continued designation as a free-standing
pavilion, gazebo, carport, or similar open-sided development.
   (G)   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks. Within SFHAs designated as
Zones A, A1-30, AE, AO, AH, V, and VE on the community’s FIRM, all newly placed
or replacement aboveground gas or liquid storage tanks shall meet the
requirements for a non-residential structure as required in division (C) above.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.063 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
154.021, are areas designated as coastal high hazard areas in/along Lake
Michigan (Zone VE). These areas have special flood hazards associated with wave
wash.
   (B)   The following provisions apply within coastal high hazard areas:
      (1)   Human-made alterations of sand dunes within a coastal high hazard
area are prohibited unless an engineering report documents that the alterations
will not increase potential flood damage by reducing the wave and flow
dissipation characteristics of the sand dunes.
      (2)   The use of fill for structural support of buildings is prohibited.
      (3)   Non-structural fill within a coastal high hazard area shall be
permitted only if an engineering report demonstrates that the fill will not
cause runup, ramping, or deflection of floodwaters that cause damage to
buildings.
      (4)   Within a Coast High Hazard Area, bulkheads, seawalls, revetments,
and other erosion control measures shall not be connected to the foundation or
superstructure of a building and shall be designed and constructed so as not to
direct floodwaters or increase flood forces or erosion impacts on the
foundation or superstructure of any building.
      (5)   New construction and substantial improvements must be elevated on
pilings or columns so that the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural
member of the lowest floor (excluding the pilings or columns) is at or above
the FPG. The pile or column foundation and structure attached thereto must be
anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement due to the effects
of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building components.
         (a)   Water loading values used must be those associated with the base
flood.
         (b)   Wind loading values used must be those required by applicable
state or local building standards; or in the absence of applicable state or
local building standards, those determined according to American Society of
Civil Engineers 7-16, Minimum design loads and associated criteria for
buildings and other structures, or equivalent standard.
         (c)   A registered professional engineer or architect must develop or
review the structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction,
and must certify that the design and methods of construction to be used are in
accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions of
this section.
         (d)   New construction and substantial improvements must have the
space below the lowest floor either flee of obstruction or be constructed with
non-supporting breakaway walls, open wood latticework, or insect screening
intended to collapse under wind and water loads without causing collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage to the elevated portion of the
building or supporting foundation system.
         (e)   For purposes of this section, a breakaway wall must have a
design safe loading resistance of not less than ten and no more than 20 pounds
per square foot.
         (f)   Use of breakaway walls that exceed a design safe loading
resistance of 20 pounds per square foot, either by design or where so required
by local or state codes) may be permitted only if a registered professional
engineer or architect certifies that the design proposed meets the following
conditions:
            1.   Breakaway wall collapse must result from a water load less
than that which would occur during the base flood; and
            2.   The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation
system must not be subject to collapse, displacement, or other structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all
building components, structural and nonstructural.
               a.   Water loading values used must be those associated with the
base flood.
               b.   Wind loading values used must be those required by
applicable state or local building standards; or in the absence of applicable
state or local building standards, those determined according to American
Society of Civil Engineers 7-16, Minimum design loads and associated criteria
for buildings and other structures, or equivalent standard.
         (g)   Any enclosed space below the lowest floor shall be used solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage.
         (h)   Placement or substantial improvement of manufactured homes must
comply with §
154.062(D).
         (i)   Recreational vehicles must either:
            1.   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
            2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
            3.   Comply with §
154.062(D).
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.064 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals and all other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
area not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and all other proposed new development (including manufactured home
parks and subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a Floodplain Development Permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a Floodplain Development Permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Code for the city. All violations
shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding an amount as set by the city from
time to time per day.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The City Plan Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore
may cause coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 22-0051, passed 12-16-2022)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Policy
   
155.003   Purposes
   
155.004   Authority
   
155.005   Jurisdiction
   
155.006   State statute citation
Definitions and Construction of Language
   
155.020   Definitions
   
155.021   Construction of language
Design Standards and Required Improvements
   
155.035   Compliance with comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance
   
155.036   Compliance with design standards and state regulations
   
155.037   Commission to control improvements
   
155.038   Monuments
   
155.039   Street requirements
   
155.040   Alleys
   
155.041   Easements
   
155.042   Utilities
   
155.043   Blocks
   
155.044   Lots
   
155.045   Water and sewer systems
   
155.046   Street lights
Waiver of Standards and Specifications
   
155.060   Modifications permitted
   
155.061   Limitations
   
155.062   Conditions
   
155.063   Procedure
Preliminary Review Procedures
   
155.075   Request for preliminary review
   
155.076   Commission review
Preliminary Plat Approval Procedures
   
155.090   Application
   
155.091   Staff review
   
155.092   Public hearing
   
155.093   Approval or disapproval
Secondary (Final) Plat Approval Procedures
   
155.105   Application for secondary approval
   
155.106   Commission review
   
155.107   Bonds for improvement
   
155.108   Use of bond proceeds
   
155.109   Plat filing and recording
Document Submission Specifications
   
155.120   Sketch plan
   
155.121   Primary plat
   
155.122   Secondary (final) plat
Certificate of Error
   
155.135   Certificates of error
Acceptance of Improvements
   
155.150   Official acceptance of improvements
   
155.151   Maintenance bond
   
155.152   Bond release
Fees
   
155.165   Fee structure for Plan Commission
   
155.166   Fee structure for Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.167   Fee structure for Planning Department
   
155.168   Primary plat fee
   
155.169   Secondary (final) plat fee
Enforcement and Abatement
   
155.180   Enforcement
   
155.181   Abatement
Appeals, Disqualification, and Amendments
   
155.195   Appeals
   
155.196   Disqualification
   
155.197   Amendments
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   These regulations (hereinafter “these regulations”) shall officially be
known as the subdivision control ordinance for the city.
(Prior Code, § 155.001) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.002 POLICY.
   The subdivision of land and the subsequent development of the subdivided
plat is subject to the control of the city and shall be carried out in
accordance with the city comprehensive plan and the city zoning regulations in
order to achieve the orderly, planned, efficient, and economical development of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 155.002) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.003 PURPOSES.
   These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, comfort, morals,
and general welfare of the city;
   (B)   To secure adequate light, air, and convenience of access; to secure
safety from fire, flood, and other danger; and to prevent overcrowding of the
land and undue congestion of population;
   (C)   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the city by encouraging: infill development in existing neighborhoods;
the installation of adequate public facilities; proper urban form and open
space separation; and protection of environmentally critical areas;
   (D)   To protect and conserve property values throughout the city and the
value of buildings and improvements upon the land;
   (E)   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, and other public
requirements and facilities;
   (F)   To provide a beneficial relationship between the uses of land and
buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the city, having particular
regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways and the
pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various use of land and
buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets;
   (G)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land, and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land;
   (H)   To ensure that public facilities and services are available to support
development and will have a sufficient capacity to serve the proposed
subdivision, through requiring the developer to ensure that the development
provides its share of capital facilities needs generated by the development;
   (I)   To prevent the pollution of air and water; to assure the adequacy of
drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; to encourage the responsible
use and management of natural resources to preserve the stability of the
community and to protect the value of existing development;
   (J)   To provide for open spaces through efficient design and layout, while
complying with the comprehensive plan and zoning regulations; and
   (K)   To remedy problems associated with inappropriately subdivided lands,
including partial or incomplete subdivision and inferior subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 155.003) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.004 AUTHORITY.
   The City Plan Commission, as established by virtue of I.C. 36-7-4-100 et
seq., as amended, is established as the administrative agency for this chapter
and is vested with the authority to undertake all duties with regard thereto.
(Prior Code, § 155.004) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.005 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all subdivisions of land within the
corporate limits of the city as now or hereafter established.
   (B)   No subdivision or replat of any lot, tract, or parcel of land shall be
affected, nor shall any street, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, water main, or
other facility in connection therewith be laid out, constructed, opened, or
dedicated for public use or for the common use of occupants of buildings or
land abutting thereon, except in strict accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   No lot shall be sold, nor shall an improvement location permit or a
building permit to erect, alter, or repair any building upon land be issued,
unless and until a subdivision has been approved and recorded, and until the
improvements required by the city in connection therewith have been constructed
or guaranteed as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 155.005) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.006 STATE STATUTE CITATION.
   (A)   The applicable state laws pertaining to these regulations are the 700
Series—Subdivision Control (I.C. 36-7-4-700 et seq.).
   (B)   Regulations contained in, and revisions to, this chapter reflect the
provisions of this statute.
(Prior Code, § 155.006) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE
§ 155.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Illustrations and diagrams provide graphic representation of the concept of a
definition. The illustration or diagram is not to be construed or interpreted
as a definition itself.
   ACCESS. The way by which vehicles shall have ingress to and egress from a
land parcel or property and the street fronting along the property or parcel.
   ALLEY. Any public right-of-way which has been dedicated or deeded to and
accepted by the public for public use as a secondary means of public access to
a lot otherwise abutting upon a public street and not intended for traffic
other than public services and circulation to and from the lot.
   APPLICANT. The owner(s) or representative of owner(s), legal and equitable,
of land within the territorial limits of the city who submit an application for
review under the terms of this chapter.
   BOARD. The City Board of Public Works and Safety.
   BOND. Any form of security including cash, surety bond, or financial
instrument of credit, as approved by the Board.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by a street or streets and any combination of
boundary lines of public or institutionally owned lands, railroad right-of-way,
natural features, or other lines of demarcation.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter, or protection of persons, animals, or property of any kind, having a
permanent roof supported by columns or walls.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line delineating the area of a lot in which no
permanent structure shall be constructed or located.
   CITY. The City of East Chicago, Indiana.
   COMMISSION. The Plan Commission of the city.
   COMMITMENT. An officially recorded agreement concerning and running with the
land, as recorded in the County Recorder’s office.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The city comprehensive (master) plan.
   CONDITION. An official agreement between city and the applicant concerning
the use or development of the land as specified in a Commission or Council
approval.
   COUNCIL. The Common Council of the city.
   COVENANT. A legal agreement concerning the use of land.
   CUL-DE-SAC. See STREET, CUL-DE-SAC.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided, or his or her
representative.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to the general public, a public
utility, a drainage or other district, or a private party, for the use of land
for a specifically stated purpose.
   FRONT LOT LINE. See LOT LINE, FRONT.
   FRONTAGE. The length along the street right-of-way line of a single lot,
tract, or development area between the lot lines of the property. It is that
side of a lot abutting a street, generally regarded as the front of the lot.
   GRADE. Percentage of slope.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any alteration to the land or other physical construction
associated with subdivision and site development.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. The fixed public works and facilities necessary in a
community, such as sewers, water systems, streets, sidewalks, street lights,
and the like.
   INTERESTED PARTIES. Those parties identified as requiring notice under the
rules of procedure of the Plan Commission.
   LOT. Per the subdivision regulations only, the portion of a subdivision
proposed to be recorded as a lot of record for the plat.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot, other than a corner lot, which fronts on two
streets.
   LOT LINE. The legal boundary of a lot as recorded in the County Recorder’s
office.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line coinciding with the street right-of-way, in
the case of a corner lot, both lot lines coinciding with the street right-of-
way shall be considered front lot lines.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision or a lot or a parcel
recorded in the County Recorder’s office with a metes and bounds description.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot abutting two parallel streets, or abutting two streets
which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
   MODEL HOME. A dwelling unit used initially for display purposes which
typifies the type of units that will be constructed in the subdivision.
   MONUMENT. Any permanent marker used to identify the boundary lines of any
tract, parcel, lot, or street line.
   OUTLOT. A nonbuildable lot which is to be excluded from the development
because of its potential for some other use.
   OWNER. A person, firm, business entity or any other legal entity having
legal title to the land sought to be subdivided under these regulations.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The City Plan Commission.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. The PUD zoning classification provided for in the
municipal code.
   PLAT. The drawing on which the subdivider’s plan of subdivision is presented
for approval and submitted for recording.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. An entity authorized to furnish electricity, gas, steam,
communication service, cable television, transportation, drainage, sewer,
water, or other public services.
   REGISTERED ENGINEER. An engineer who is licensed in compliance with the laws
of the state.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A surveyor who is licensed in compliance with the
laws of the state.
   REPLAT. The process of allowing for an adjustment of a lot line or lines or
easements, as shown on a recorded subdivision.
   RE-RECORDING. The process allowing for an adjustment of an easement or
correction of a drafting or typographical error.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended for occupancy by
transportation facilities, public utilities, or other special public uses.
RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for use involving maintenance by a public agency shall
be dedicated to public use by the subdivider.
   SECONDARY PLAT. A map indicating the subdivision of land, intended to be
recorded and prepared in accordance with these regulations. Also known as a
FINAL PLAT.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance established by ordinance between a
proposed right-of-way line or a lot line and the setback line.
   SKETCH PLAN. A plan, which may be drawn as a freehand pen or pencil sketch,
without precise dimensions or sheet size, used to show the Commission the
location, proposed street and lot layout, and other significant features of a
proposed subdivision.
   STAFF. The staff members of the City Department of Business Development and
Planning.
   STREET. A right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to
abutting properties or to other streets. A STREET may be designated as a
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, drive, or other
appropriate name. A STREET may also be identified according to type of use as
follows:
      STREET, ARTERIAL. A street designated or used primarily for heavy, fast
moving through traffic.
      STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which carries traffic from local streets to
major arterial streets and vice versa.
      STREET, LOCAL. A street intended primarily to provide access to abutting
properties.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with permanent location on the
ground or anything permanently attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person who undertakes the subdivision or resubdivision of
land. The person may be the owner or the authorized agent of the owner of the
land to be subdivided.
   SUBDIVISION. A lot, tract, or parcel of land of one or more lots or other
divisions of land for the purpose, immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership or development, including any plat or plan which may include the
creation of any part of one or more streets, public easements, or other rights-
of-way, whether public or private, for access to or from the lots, and/or
including the creation of new or enlarged parks, playgrounds, plazas, or open
spaces. SUBDIVISION includes the resubdivision of one or more lots in a
subdivision previously made and recorded.
   THOROUGHFARE. An arterial street.
   THROUGH LOT. A lot abutting two or more parallel streets or abutting two
streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
   THROUGHWALK. A public right-of-way located across a block to provide
pedestrian access to adjacent streets or areas.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices placed or
erected by authority of the city or the state for the purpose of regulating,
warning, or guiding traffic.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of this chapter, where the
modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of action or inaction of
the applicant, subdivider, or owner, a literal enforcement of this chapter
would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. VARIANCES in subdivision
regulations are granted solely by the Commission.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal building that is open and
unobstructed by structures except as otherwise authorized herein.
   YARD, BACK. A yard extending across the full width of a lot and bounded on
the rear by the rear lot line, the depth of which is the least distance between
the rear lot line and the rear of the principal building.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot unoccupied
other than by steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts, and similar
structures, but not including porches or decks, the depth of which is the least
distance between the front lot line and the front line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the principal building and the adjacent side lot
line, that extends from the front yard to the rear yard, the width of which is
the least distance between the side lot line and the adjacent side of the
building.
   ZONING REGULATIONS. 
Chapter 156 of this municipal code.
(Prior Code, § 155.020) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.021 CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   The language of these regulations shall be interpreted as follows.
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   In the case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
text of these regulations and any illustration or diagram, the text shall
control.
   (C)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not discretionary.
   (D)   The word MAY is permissive.
   (E)   Words used in present tense shall include the future; words used in
the singular shall include the plural; and the plural, the singular, unless the
context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (F)   A BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part thereof, unless the context
clearly indicates the contrary.
   (G)   The phrase USED FOR includes ARRANGED FOR, DESIGNED FOR, INTENDED FOR,
MAINTAINED FOR, OCCUPIED FOR and similar terms.
   (H)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation
involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by a
conjunction:
      (1)   AND indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events shall apply;
      (2)   OR indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events may apply singly or in any combination; or
      (3)   EITHER... OR indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
(Prior Code, § 155.021) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.035 COMPLIANCE WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The subdivision and its components shall conform to all elements of the
comprehensive plan and to all regulations as set forth in the zoning
regulations, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 155.035) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.036 COMPLIANCE WITH DESIGN STANDARDS AND STATE REGULATIONS.
   All development covered by these regulations shall be constructed in
accordance with the design standards set forth herein and also in accordance
with the latest editions of the State Standard Specifications of Road and
Bridge Construction and Maintenance, and amendments thereto. In addition, the
development shall comply with all other applicable local, state, and federal
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 155.036) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.037 COMMISSION TO CONTROL IMPROVEMENTS.
   The construction of any and all improvements described in these regulations
shall be in every case under the direction, inspection, and control of the
Commission or its agents and employees. No improvements or installations shall
be made unless and until all necessary plans, profiles, and specifications have
been submitted to and approved by the Commission. The costs of the improvement,
including all legal fees, engineering fees, and expenses, and publication costs
shall be paid by the applicant, developer, or lot owners directly benefitted.
(Prior Code, § 155.037) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.038 MONUMENTS.
   The applicant shall have a survey of the subdivision made and monuments and
markers placed conforming to the following specifications.
   (A)   A complete survey shall be made by a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer. The traverse of the exterior boundaries of the tract and
of each block, when computed from field measurements on the ground, shall close
within a limit of error on one foot to 10,000 of the perimeter before balancing
the survey.
   (B)   A permanent monument shall be placed at each corner and at each change
of direction in the boundary lines of the subdivision. The permanent monuments
shall be of concrete, reinforced over its full length with a one-half-inch
reinforcement bar, which shall be clearly visible at the top. These monuments
shall be 36 inches long and not less than six inches in least diameter at the
bottom and four inches in least diameter at the top.
   (C)   Iron pipe markers shall be placed at all block corners, at the
beginning and end of all curves, at a point where a waterway changes its radius
and at all angle points in any line. The markers shall be not less than two
feet in length and three-fourths of an inch in diameter.
   (D)   Monuments and markers shall be set flush with the ground in a manner
approved by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 155.038) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.039 STREET REQUIREMENTS.
   All streets shall be graded to the grades and dimensions as shown on plans
and profiles and as approved by the Commission. The streets shall conform to
the following.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade, and location of all
streets shall be correlated to existing and planned streets, existing
topography, public safety, and in their appropriate relations to the proposed
uses of the land to be served by those streets.
   (B)   Local streets shall be laid out so that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
   (C)   No new street shall have a name which duplicates or so nearly
duplicates as to be confused with any existing street within the city, unless
the new street is to be an extension of an existing street, in which case the
street shall bear the name of the existing street. Continuous local and
collector streets which have major directional changes shall require a change
in street name for each directional change.
   (D)   Street roadways shall be surfaced to the minimum width set forth in
Table 1, herein. Street roadways shall be of bituminous concrete with a base
course of ten inches compacted crushed stone, a two-inch asphalt binder course
and a one-inch minimum asphalt surface; provided, however, that the Commission
may permit the installation of surfacing other than bituminous concrete subject
to standards assuring that the surfacing will be equivalent to the above
mentioned roadway depth.
   (E)   Industrial roadways shall be of bituminous concrete with a base course
of 12 inches compacted crushed stone, a two-inch asphalt binder course, and a
one-inch minimum asphalt surface; provided, however, that the Commission may
permit the installation of surfacing other than bituminous concrete subject to
standards assuring that the surfacing will be equivalent to the above mentioned
roadway depth.
   (F)   Suitable drainage structures, culverts, storm sewers, ditches, and
related installations shall be provided to ensure adequate drainage of all
points along the streets. The structures or installations shall be placed in
accordance with the latest edition of the State Standard Specifications of Road
and Bridge Construction and Maintenance and other standards that the Commission
may deem essential upon advice of the City Engineer.
   (G)   Street shoulders shall be constructed which are uniformly and
thoroughly compacted by rolling, and level with the tops of curbs.
   (H)   Curbs and gutters shall be constructed for all street pavements in all
subdivisions. Curbs shall be of concrete and have a width of 24 inches, a rear
height of 12 inches. Curbs shall be constructed over a sufficient base. An
expansion joint shall be placed at 35-foot intervals. At each expansion joint,
two and one-half-inch diameter steel smooth dowel rods 24 inches long shall be
placed and evenly divided at the joints.
   (I)   All work on grading, surfacing, and improvements shall be performed in
the manner prescribed in the latest edition of the State Standard
Specifications of Road and Bridge Construction and Maintenance; provided,
however, that the Commission may make additional requirements based on soil
characteristics.
   (J)   Private driveways shall be constructed with a bituminous or concrete
surface. If the construction is to be hot asphaltic concrete, the surface of
the driveway shall be excavated a minimum of six inches below finished grade
line and filled with four inches of crushed stone and two inches of hot
asphaltic concrete. Each course shall be thoroughly compacted by rolling. The
base course may be compacted with a vibratory compactor.
   (K)   If the construction is to be portland cement concrete, the driveway
shall be excavated a minimum of four inches and filled with concrete, with wire
mesh, six by six, 10/10 W.W.F. The wire mesh shall extend to within two inches
of each edge. Solid forms shall be used and in no case will earth be allowed to
substitute as a form. If the driveway is 20 feet or longer, a preformed
expansion joint shall be placed at 20-foot intervals, with one-half inch round
bars, painted and oiled, placed at three foot intervals across this joint. The
edges of the drive shall be edged with a three-fourths-inch edger.
(Prior Code, § 155.039) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.040 ALLEYS.
   (A)   Residential areas. Alleys are discouraged, but may be approved in new
developments if the Commission determines that the access for delivery of
public and private services will be impaired without an alley. Alleys, when
deemed necessary, shall be not less than 20 feet in width.
   (B)   Commercial, industrial, and institutional areas. Service access,
including off-street parking and loading areas which do not require the use of
alleys are encouraged. If the Commission determines that service access is
insufficient without alleys, they shall be required. Alleys, when required,
shall not be less than 30 feet in width.
   (C)   Intersections. Alley intersections and alleys with sharp changes in
alignment are discouraged, but where the intersections or changes are
unavoidable, corners shall be cut off with a radius of not less than ten feet
or sufficiently to permit safe vehicular movement.
   (D)   Dead end alleys. Dead end alleys are discouraged but where the alleys
are unavoidable, they shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at
the closed end.
   (E)   Surfacing. Alleys shall be surfaced to the full width of their rights-
of-way. Alley roadways shall be of bituminous concrete with a base course of
six inches compacted crushed stone, a two-inch asphalt binder course and a one-
inch minimum asphalt surface; provided, however, that the Commission may permit
the installation of surfacing other than bituminous concrete subject to
standards assuring that the surfacing will be equivalent to the above mentioned
roadway depth.
(Prior Code, § 155.040) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.041 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided for
utilities where necessary and shall be not less than seven and one-half feet
wide on both sides of the property line.
   (B)   Easements shall be continuous to the street at the end of the block to
connect with adjoining blocks in an efficient manner.
(Prior Code, § 155.041) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.042 UTILITIES.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide a system of gas and electrical
distribution lines to serve all lots within the subdivision.
   (B)   Underground installation is required in new residential subdivisions.
   (C)   Underground installation is encouraged in commercial and industrial
areas. Aerial installation is prohibited within 50 feet from any affected
residential area.
(Prior Code, § 155.042) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.043 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block length shall not exceed 1,300 feet, except that a longer length
may be permitted where it achieves conformity with existing streets.
   (B)   Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots of at least
minimum depth, except where lots front on major arterial streets or in the
presence of adverse topographical conditions.
   (C)   Pedestrian access through blocks longer than 800 feet may be required
where the access is deemed essential by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 155.043) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.044 LOTS.
   (A)   Lots sizes, setbacks, and yard requirements shall conform to the
requirements of the zoning regulations.
   (B)   Every lot shall abut and front on a public street.
   (C)   Lots shall be consecutively numbered and addresses shall be assigned
in accordance with the uniform address system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 155.044) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.045 WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Generally. The water supply and sewage disposal systems for all
subdivisions shall meet the design standards and requirements of the State
Board of Health, the local Board of Health, applicable provisions of these
regulations and any other city code.
   (B)   Water mains.
      (1)   In residential, business, and industrial areas, water mains shall
have a minimum nominal diameter of eight inches. For diameters of eight inches,
ten inches, or 12 inches, water mains shall be pressure class 350, or an
approved equal, ductile iron pipe manufactured in the U.S. in accordance with
the latest revision of ANSI/AWWA C151/A21.51. Each pipe shall be subjected to a
hydrostatic pressure test of at least 500 psi at the point of manufacture.
      (2)   Pipe shall have standard asphaltic coating on the exterior. Pipe
shall also have a cement mortar lining on the interior in accordance with ANSI/
AWWA C104/A21.4, or latest revision. Water mains with nominal diameters of 14
inches or larger shall be a pressure class approved by the city utility.
   (C)   Hydrants. Water hydrants shall be the same as those presently used
throughout the city with two two and one-half inch openings and one four and
one-half inch pumper nozzle, all national standard thread. Hydrants shall be
placed along the streets not more than three feet back of the curb line, at
intersections whenever possible. The maximum distance between hydrants and
valves in residential areas shall be 450 feet and in business and industrial
areas shall be 350 feet. Ports or openings shall be elevated between 26 and 34
inches above grade and be turned facing the street.
   (D)   Sewage system. Sanitary house connection sewers shall be no less than
four inches in diameter. If less than six inches, PVC-ASTM-3033-3034 must be
used. Sanitary local sewers to serve a subdivision, or a part thereof, shall be
a minimum of eight inches, inside diameter.
   (E)   Water supply interconnections. There shall be no cross-connection
between a public and private water supply system and a sewer which will permit
the passage of any sewage or polluted water into the water supply. Sewers shall
be kept removed from water supply sources and structures.
   (F)   Relation of sewers to water mains. A minimum horizontal distance of
ten feet shall be maintained between water and sanitary sewer lines servicing
any property. At points where sewers cross water mains, the sewer shall be
constructed of cast iron pipe, or encased in concrete for a distance of ten
feet in each direction from the crossing, measured perpendicular to the water
line. This will not be required when the water main is at least two feet above
the sewer.
   (G)   Valves. Water main valves shall be located at every street and cul-de-
sac intersection and before each hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 155.045) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.046 STREET LIGHTS.
   A complete street lighting system with underground wiring shall be provided
in accordance with standards adopted by the Board. In order to decrease the
hazards of vehicular and pedestrian traffic incidents, the subdivider shall
install approved street lights at all intersections and other areas deemed
necessary, in a manner prescribed in the standards adopted by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 155.046) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
WAIVER OF STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 155.060 MODIFICATIONS PERMITTED.
   Where the Commission finds that strict compliance with these regulations
would result in extraordinary or undue hardship to the subdivider, or that
these conditions would result in retarding the achievement of the objectives of
this chapter, then the Commission may, after written application by the
applicant, approve variations or exceptions to these regulations within the
limitations and conditions stated below, provided that the variations or
exceptions shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purposes of
these regulations or the comprehensive plan.
(Prior Code, § 155.060) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.061 LIMITATIONS.
   The Commission shall approve variations or exceptions to these regulations
only where it finds, based upon the evidence presented on a case by case basis,
that:
   (A)   As a result of the particular physical characteristics of the specific
property involved, a particular hardship to the subdivider would result if the
strict letter of these regulations was carried out;
   (B)   The variation or exception will not have the effect of reducing the
traffic capacity of any major arterial or collector street; or
   (C)   The variation will not be detrimental to the purposes set forth
herein.
(Prior Code, § 155.061) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.062 CONDITIONS.
   In granting variances, modifications, exceptions or waivers, the Commission
may require conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objectives of the standards and requirements so affected.
(Prior Code, § 155.062) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.063 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   A variance from the terms and conditions of this chapter may be
requested by the filing of a written petition with the Administrative Secretary
of the Commission, setting forth the variance requested and any other
information deemed necessary by the Commission.
      (2)   Upon receipt of this petition, the request for variance shall be
included in the advertising and notice given for the public hearing regarding
plat approval.
   (B)   Should the applicant request variance subsequent to the public hearing
held on plat approval, another public hearing, advertised and held in
conformance with the Commission’s requirements regarding public hearings, will
be required.
(Prior Code, § 155.063) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
PRELIMINARY REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 155.075 REQUEST FOR PRELIMINARY REVIEW.
   (A)   An applicant for subdivision approval may appear before the Commission
to discuss the proposal before filing an application for preliminary plat
approval. Preliminary review is encouraged but not required.
   (B)   No fee or formal application is required for this meeting, however,
the applicant should submit a sketch plan and a letter of intent describing the
area which is intended to be subdivided and setting forth the plan for the
proposed land use, existing characteristics, availability of facilities and
utilities, and site access and proposed street layout. The applicant should be
prepared to discuss the details of the proposed subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 155.075) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.076 COMMISSION REVIEW.
   The Commission shall inform the applicant whether the plans and data as
submitted or modified appear to meet the objectives of these regulations. When
the Commission finds that the objectives are not met, it shall express its
reasons therefore in writing. When the Commission finds that the plan is
acceptable, it shall inform the applicant in writing of any rezoning required,
provide an application form to be submitted with the preliminary plat, and
place the project on the Commission agenda on a mutually agreeable date.
(Prior Code, § 155.076) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURES
§ 155.090 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An applicant for primary subdivision approval shall submit an
application for approval of a preliminary plat to the Commission on a form
provided by the Commission and submitted at least ten days prior to the
Commission meeting at which it is to be considered.
   (B)   (1)   The application shall be accompanied by the following:
         (a)   Three copies of all maps and data as required in §
155.121; and
         (b)   A check or money order in the amount set forth in §
155.168.
      (2)   In addition, the applicant shall deliver one copy of the
application form and all maps and data as required in §
155.121 to the following:
         (a)   City Engineer;
         (b)   Sanitary District;
         (c)   Department of Parks and Recreation;
         (d)   Building Department;
         (e)   Department of Redevelopment; and
         (f)   Fire Department.
      (3)   An erosion control plan as required by the Soil Conservation
Service.
(Prior Code, § 155.090) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.091 STAFF REVIEW.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for primary approval, the Commission
staff shall review the application for technical conformity with the standards
fixed in the subdivision control regulations. At the first Commission meeting
following the completed application filing, but in any event not more than 30
days after receipt, the staff shall announce the date for a hearing before the
Commission and provide for notice to interested parties.
   (B)   After the staff has announced a date for a hearing before the
Commission, it shall:
      (1)   Notify the applicant in writing;
      (2)   Give notice of the hearing by publication; and
      (3)   Provide for ten day notice to interested parties
(Prior Code, § 155.091) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.092 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The Commission shall hold the public hearing in accordance with the
procedures established in the Plan Commission rules of procedure.
   (B)   In determining whether to grant primary approval of a plat, the
Commission shall determine if the plat or subdivision qualifies for primary
approval under the standards prescribed by the subdivision control ordinance.
The Commission must make written findings stating whether the plat meets the
subdivision ordinance standards regarding:
      (1)   Minimum width, depth, and area of lots in the subdivision;
      (2)   Public way widths, grades, curves, and the coordination of
subdivision public ways with current and planned public ways; and
      (3)   The provision and/or extension of water, sewer, and other municipal
services.
   (C)   As a condition of primary approval of a plat, the Commission may
specify:
      (1)   The manner in which public ways shall be laid out, graded, and
improved;
      (2)   A provision for water, sewage, and other utility services;
      (3)   A provision for lot size, number, and location;
      (4)   A provision for drainage design; and
      (5)   A provision for other services as specified in the subdivision
control ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 155.092) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.093 APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   If, after the hearing, the Commission determines that the application
and plat comply with the standards in the subdivision control regulations, it
shall make written findings and a decision granting primary approval to the
plat. The primary approval must be certified on behalf of the Commission and
signed by the Plan Commission Chairperson and the City Engineer.
   (B)   If, after the hearing, the Commission disapproves the plat, it shall
make written findings that set forth its reasons and a decision denying primary
approval and shall provide the applicant with a copy. This decision must be
signed by the Plan Commission Chairperson and the City Engineer.
   (C)   The primary approval or disapproval of a plat by the Commission or the
imposition of a condition on primary approval is a final decision of the
Commission that may be appealed in the manner provided in §§
155.195 through
155.197 herein, according to State Code.
   (D)   If the Commission fails to take action on the application for primary
approval within 60 days of the public hearing, the application is automatically
approved.
(Prior Code, § 155.093) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
SECONDARY (FINAL) PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURES
§ 155.105 APPLICATION FOR SECONDARY APPROVAL.
   Thirty days or more following the date of primary approval, the applicant
may request secondary plat approval upon the submission of the secondary
(final) plat as set forth in §
155.122.
(Prior Code, § 155.105) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.106 COMMISSION REVIEW.
   Upon the determination of the City Engineer that all improvements and
infrastructure installation required for the subdivision have been properly
completed and accepted by the applicable city boards or utilities, the
Commission may grant secondary approval of the plat. No notice or hearing is
required.
(Prior Code, § 155.106) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.107 BONDS FOR IMPROVEMENT.
   Secondary approval of the subdivision plat may be granted to a plat for
subdivision in which the improvements and installments have not been completed
and accepted as required by the subdivision control ordinance, if:
   (A)   The applicant provides a bond or other proof of financial
responsibility such as a letter of credit that:
      (1)   Is an amount determined by the Commission be sufficient to complete
the improvements and installations in compliance with the regulations; and
      (2)   Provides surety satisfactory to the Commission.
   (B)   With respect to the installation or extension of water, sewer, or
other utility service:
      (1)   The applicant shows by written evidence that it has entered into a
contract with the political subdivision or utility providing the service and
installation; and
      (2)   The Commission determines based on written evidence that the
contract provides satisfactory assurance that the service will be installed or
extended in compliance with the subdivision control regulations.
(Prior Code, § 155.107) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.108 USE OF BOND PROCEEDS.
   Any money received from a bond or otherwise shall be used only for making
the improvements and installation for which the bond or other proof of
financial responsibility was provided. This money may be used for these
purposes without appropriation. The improvement or installation must conform to
the standards provided for the improvements or installations in the city and
state, as well as the subdivision control regulations.
(Prior Code, § 155.108) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.109 PLAT FILING AND RECORDING.
   After a plat of subdivision has received secondary approval and been signed
and certified by the Plan Commission Chairperson and the City Engineer, the
plat may be filed with the County Auditor and recorded in the County Recorder’s
office.
(Prior Code, § 155.109) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
DOCUMENT SUBMISSION SPECIFICATIONS
§ 155.120 SKETCH PLAN.
   For use during preliminary review by the Commission, the applicant shall
submit a sketch plan to present to the Commission and staff. The plan may be
drawn as a freehand pen or pencil sketch and does not require precise
dimensions or any special sheet size. A sketch plan should show the location,
proposed street and lot layout, and other significant features of the proposed
subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 155.120) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.121 PRIMARY PLAT.
   The following maps and data shall be submitted with the application for
primary plat approval. These maps and data may be on separate sheets or
combined on one or more sheets, depending on the size and complexity of the
proposed subdivision:
   (A)   Proof of ownership of property;
   (B)   Location map of the proposed subdivision, drawn at a scale of one-inch
equals 400 feet or less, showing:
      (1)   Location of proposed subdivision within the city;
      (2)   Zoning of the tract and adjacent properties; and
      (3)   Existing related streets, including the distances therefrom.
   (C)   Site map of the proposed subdivision and all lands within 300 feet of
its boundaries, except where the proposed subdivision borders on an existing
subdivision, the site map need only include the first tier of dwellings
boundaries, showing:
      (1)   Existing contours based on USGS datum with intervals of not more
than five feet where the slope is greater than 10% and not more than two feet
where the slope is 10% or less. Elevations shall be based on sea level datum;
      (2)   Character and location of natural or artificial features existing
on the land which would affect the design of the subdivision, such as wooded
areas, embankments, retaining wall, buildings, or nonresidential land use;
      (3)   Existing and proposed streets and rights-of-way; including
dedicated width, roadway widths, approximate gradients; and types and widths of
pavements, sidewalks, and curbs;
      (4)   Existing and proposed easements, including width and purposes;
      (5)   Existing water mains, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, culverts,
bridges, gas mains, cellular towers, power lines, and other utility structures
within the tract, including pipe sizes, grades, and exact locations as obtained
from public records;
      (6)   Areas subject to periodic overflow of flood or stormwaters;
      (7)   Subsurface conditions, including information about ground water
levels, stability of subsoils, and possible contamination. The results of soil
analysis test, if required;
      (8)   Tract boundary lines by calculated distances, and bearings;
      (9)   Proposed landscaping; and
      (10)   Title, graphic scale, north arrow, and date.
   (D)   Subdivision plat of the proposed subdivision drawn legibly on tracing
cloth or equal material of good quality at a scale of not more than 100 feet to
one-inch showing:
      (1)   The proposed name and/or number of the subdivision by which it
shall legally and commonly be known;
      (2)   Legal description of the subdivision;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the owner(s), the subdivider, and the
engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat. The signature and seal of a
licensed land surveyor or professional engineer must appear on a primary plat
if work is to commence on public improvements prior to secondary plat approval;
      (4)   Total acreage within the subdivision and residential density in
number of dwelling units per gross acre of residential area;
      (5)   Street pattern, including the name of each street (which shall not
duplicate an existing street name unless it is an extension of an existing
street), widths of rights-of-way of streets and alleys, and approximate grades
of streets;
      (6)   Layout of lots, including dimensions, numbers, and building setback
lines. All lots intended for sale shall be consecutive throughout the several
additions. Where all the lots are of the same dimensions, it shall be
sufficient to so state and mark the precise length and width upon one tier
thereof. All triangles or other lots which are neither squares nor
parallelograms shall have the length on each side plainly defined by figures;
      (7)   Parcels of land proposed to be dedicated or reserved for public use
or reserved for use of all property owners of the subdivision, with the
proposed conditions, if any, attached to the dedication or reservation. Private
parks and excluded parcels shall be designated as that in printing upon the
plat and shall be lettered respectively or given a name;
      (8)   Key plan, legend, notes, graphic scale, north arrow, and date; and
      (9)   In case of a replat, all descriptive lines of the original plat
being replaced shall be shown by dotted lines in their proper position in
relation to the new arrangement of the plat, the new plat being clearly shown
in sold lines so as to avoid ambiguity or confusion.
   (E)   Engineering plans for the proposed subdivision showing:
      (1)   A centerline profile of all proposed streets or roads, with typical
cross sections indicating proposed crowns and slopes anticipated in meeting
required street improvements. The profile shall display the locations and
typical cross-section of street pavements including curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
drainage easements, servitudes, rights-of-way, manholes, and catch basins; the
location of street trees, street lighting, and street signs; the location size
and invert elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, stormwater
drains, and fire hydrants, showing connection to any existing or proposed
utility systems; and the exact location and size of all water, gas, or other
underground utilities or structures;
      (2)   A profile and other explanatory data of the proposed sewage system
and all sewer lines; and
      (3)   A storm drainage study delineating the method and manner of
handling and disposing of stormwater for the subdivision.
   (F)   Statement of the proposed uses of lots, stating type of residential
buildings with number or proposed dwelling units; type of business or industry;
so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire hazards, or
congestion;
   (G)   Proposed covenants and restrictions, set out in full;
   (H)   Proposed zoning plan for the area, if any zoning changes are proposed;
   (I)   Statement of the date upon which it is proposed to commence and
complete development, once approved; and
   (J)   Other information as may be deemed necessary for proper review.
(Prior Code, § 155.121) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.122 SECONDARY (FINAL) PLAT.
   The following maps and data shall be submitted for secondary plat approval:
   (A)   A secondary (final) plat that is clearly and legibly drawn with black
india ink on tracing cloth or equal material. Reproduction processes used shall
leave the paper and ink unaltered and reproduction by a wet process such as
photostating shall not be accepted. Each sheet of the secondary plat shall be
24 by 36 inches in size. When more than one sheet is required, all sheets shall
be indexed in an orderly consecutive fashion and a small scale key drawing of
the entire subdivision, showing the portions of the subdivision appearing on
respective sheets, shall appear on the first sheet. The secondary plat shall be
drawn to a scale of not more than 100 feet to one-inch and shall show the
following:
      (1)   The name by which the subdivision shall be legally and commonly
known, shown on the plat in prominent letters at the top of the sheet;
      (2)   Location of the subdivision by section, township, and range,
municipality, county, and state;
      (3)   The exact location of subdivision boundaries indicated on the plat
drawings by distances and bearing, with reference to at least two of the
nearest recognized permanent monuments of section corners;
      (4)   Names of owner(s) and registered surveyor or registered engineer
preparing the plat;
      (5)   Date of the survey, scale of map, and north arrow;
      (6)   All subdivision boundaries, showing length of courses to one one-
hundredths of a foot and bearing to half minutes, and radii and angles of all
curves and tangents;
      (7)   Exact location, width, and name of all streets within and adjoining
the subdivision and the exact location and width of all alleys and
throughwalks;
      (8)   Radii, internal angles, points of curvature, tangent bearings, and
lengths of all arcs, chord, and chord bearings;
      (9)   All easements for rights-of-way provided for public services or
utilities, and any limitations of the easements;
      (10)   All lot numbers and lot lines, with accurate dimensions in feet
and hundredths, and with bearing or angles to street and alley or throughwalk
right-of-way lines. Where all lots are of the same dimensions, it shall be
sufficient to so state and mark the precise length and width upon one tier
thereof. All gores, triangles, or other lots which are neither squares nor
parallelograms shall have the length of each side plainly defined by figures.
Blocks in numbered additions to subdivisions bearing the same name may be
numbered consecutively through the several additions;
      (11)   Accurate location of all monuments erected, corners, and other
points established in the field in their proper places. The material of which
each permanent monument, corner, or other point is made shall be noted by
legend, symbol, or otherwise;
      (12)   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions, by courses and extent,
of any areas (not including streets, alleys, or public utility easements) to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon; and
of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common use of all property
owners;
      (13)   Building setback lines, with dimension;
      (14)   When lots are located on a curve or when side lot lines are at
angles other than 90 degrees, the width at the building line shall be shown;
      (15)   All lake or stream shore meander lines established by the
surveyor, the distances and bearings thereof, and the distance between the
points of intersection of meander lines with lot lines and the ordinary high
water mark; and
      (16)   Abutting state highway lines and streets of adjoining plats shown
in their proper location, with names and widths.
   (B)   To entitle a secondary plat to be recorded, the following certificates
shall be included and lettered or printed on the plat:
      (1)   Certification by the Commission that all improvements and
installations required by this chapter are in place;
      (2)   Certification by the Secretary of the Commission that the
subdivider has filed a performance bond which shall:
         (a)   Run to the city;
         (b)   Be in an amount determined by the Commission to be sufficient to
complete the improvements and installations required by this chapter;
         (c)   Be with surety satisfactory to the Commission; and
         (d)   Specify the time for completion of improvements and
installations.
      (3)   Certification by a registered engineer or land surveyor that the
plat represents a survey made by the person; that all monuments shown thereon
actually exist and that their locations are correctly shown; and that all
dimensional and geodetic details are correct; and
      (4)   (a)   Form of dedication, stating the name of the plat, that the
lands embraced therein have been surveyed and platted and that the streets,
alleys, public areas, sewers, water lines, and other improvements shown are
dedicated to the use of the public.
         (b)   The dedication shall be signed by the person(s) holding the
title by deed of the lands, by any person holding any other title of record, by
any person holding title as vendee under land contract, and stating if the
lands to be dedicated to public use are mortgaged.
         (c)   The signatures must be witnessed and execution of the dedication
must be acknowledged as deeds conveying lands are required to be witnessed and
acknowledged.
            1.   All the above required information shall be in proper form for
the approval of the Commission.
            2.   A request for acceptance of dedicated improvements and lands,
and acceptance of the plat by the Common Council shall also be in a proper form
for submission to the Common Council.
            3.   The subdivider shall submit with the secondary plat an
abstract of title certified to date, or at the option of the subdivider, a
policy of title insurance, for examination by the Commission, in order that the
Commission may ascertain whether the proper parties have signed and
acknowledged the required certificates on the plat, and whether the property
involved is free and clear of all encumbrances; provided, however, that the
Commission may waive this requirement if it determines that unusual
circumstances make the abstract or policy unnecessary.
            4.   i.   Any existing or proposed protective covenants that are to
run with the land shall be submitted with the secondary plat.
            2.   ii.   These covenants may be shown upon the secondary plat,
but if they are not so shown, they shall be submitted with the secondary plat
in form for recording, and shall be recorded concurrently with the secondary
plat.
         (e)   The subdivider shall submit with the secondary plat all the
necessary plans, profiles, and specifications for the improvements and
installations required by these regulations; provided, however, that the plans,
profiles, and specifications may, at the option of the subdivider, be filed
prior to the filing of the secondary plat.
(Prior Code, § 155.122) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
CERTIFICATE OF ERROR
§ 155.135 CERTIFICATES OF ERROR.
   Engineer’s certificates of error or certificates of correction, reciting and
correcting subsequently discovered engineering or surveying errors of
measurement or typographical errors in recording plats, replats, or vacations,
shall not be required to follow the procedures outlined herein, but shall
require approval by the City Engineer prior to recording of the corrections.
(Prior Code, § 155.135) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.150 OFFICIAL ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   Prior to the official dedication of streets and other improvements for the
benefit of the city, the subdivider shall provide for a final inspection of all
improvements by the City Engineer or his or her designee, and shall provide as
built maps of all improvements. Upon the certification of the completion of
improvements in conformance with these regulations by the City Engineer, the
city may accept the improvements, subject to §
155.151.
(Prior Code, § 155.150) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.151 MAINTENANCE BOND.
   Prior to the acceptance of any street or other improvement by the city, the
subdivider shall post a maintenance bond and/or other acceptable security
naming the city as obligee in an amount approved by the Board, upon a
recommendation of an amount deemed appropriate by the City Engineer to ensure
maintenance of the improvements for a period of at least 24 months from the
date of acceptance by the city. Cash, a letter of credit or equivalent security
may be submitted in lieu of a maintenance bond.
(Prior Code, § 155.151) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.152 BOND RELEASE.
   Bonds or other securities provided by the subdivider to guarantee
installation of the improvements, or maintenance thereof, may be reduced or
released by the Board, on behalf of the city, upon a favorable recommendation
of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 155.152) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
FEES
§ 155.165 FEE STRUCTURE FOR PLAN COMMISSION.
   The fees below are subject to change at the discretion of the city.
Business application fee                                                   $100
Each lot for subdivision primary plats or replat                           $75
Industrial application fee                                                 $200
Plan unit development/community unit plan (plus $50 for each single family
or duplex dwelling unit and $100 per multi family dwelling unit or         $200
business, industrial building
Request to reduce bond                                                     $500
Residential application fee (owner occupied exempt)                        $75
Secondary plat filing (replat, plan unit development, community unit plan) $300
Special meeting                                                            $750
Zoning changes                                                             $300
 
(Ord. 11-0011, passed 7-25-2011)
§ 155.166 FEE STRUCTURE FOR BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
 
Business development standard variance application ($50 under 2,000 sq. $150
ft.)
Industrial (development standard variance application)                  $250
Land use variance ($50 under 2,000 sq. ft.)                             $300
Residential (development standard variance application)                 $50
Special meeting                                                         $300
Special use variance                                                    $300
 
(Ord. 11-0011, passed 7-25-2011)
§ 155.167 FEE STRUCTURE FOR PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   The fees below are subject to change at the discretion of the city.
 
Business and industry for sign application     $20
Copy of zoning ordinance (compact disc only)   $20
Copy of comprehensive plan (compact disc only) $20
Fence application                              $20
Per zoning ordinance (photocopy)               $2
 
(Ord. 11-0011, passed 7-25-2011)
§ 155.168 PRIMARY PLAT FEE.
   (A)   An applicant for primary plat approval shall pay the fee specified in
the Uniform Schedule of Fees, established by the Commission, to defray the cost
of checking and verifying an applicant’s preliminary plat.
   (B)   The fee schedule is proportionate to the actual cost of checking and
verifying proposed plats.
   (C)   Payment shall be made by check or money order and shall accompany the
application for primary plat approval.
(Prior Code, § 155.165) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.169 SECONDARY (FINAL) PLAT FEE.
   (A)   An applicant for secondary plat approval shall pay the fee specified
in the Uniform Schedule of Fees, established by the Commission, to defray a
portion of the cost of inspecting the installation of the improvements required
by these regulations.
   (B)   Payment shall be made by check or money order and shall accompany the
application for secondary plat approval.
(Prior Code, § 155.166) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998) Penalty, see §
155.999
ENFORCEMENT AND ABATEMENT
§ 155.180 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) or any designated
enforcement official may institute a suit for injunction in the County Circuit
Court to restrain an individual or government unit from violating any provision
of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 155.180) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.181 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The Commission or BZA may institute a suit for a mandatory injunction
directing an individual, person, firm, corporation, other business entity or a
governmental unit to remove a structure erected in violation of the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Commission or BZA is successful in its suit, the respondent
shall bear the cost of the action.
(Prior Code, § 155.181) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
APPEALS, DISQUALIFICATION, AND AMENDMENTS
§ 155.195 APPEALS.
   Every decision of the Commission shall be subject to review by certiorari.
Each person aggrieved by a decision of the Commission may present to the County
Circuit or Superior Court a verified petition setting forth that the decision
is illegal in whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the illegality.
The petition shall be presented to the Court within 30 days after the date of
that decision of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 155.195) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.196 DISQUALIFICATION.
   A member of the Commission or Council may not participate in a hearing or
decision of that Commission or Council concerning a subdivision or vacation
matter in which he or she has a direct or indirect financial interest. The
Commission or Council shall enter the disqualification on the record.
(Prior Code, § 155.196) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.197 AMENDMENTS.
   These regulations may be amended from time to time in the manner provided by
State Code.
(Prior Code, § 155.197) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any individual, person, firm, corporation, or other business entity
who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount as set by the city from time
to time.
   (B)   Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense
and the penalties for each violation shall be cumulative.
(Prior Code, § 155.999) (Ord. 0-98-0026, passed 12-21-1998)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
156.001   Purpose
   
156.002   Word interpretation
   
156.003   Definitions
   
156.004   Scope
   
156.005   Minimum requirements standards
   
156.006   Enforcement
   
156.007   Community unit plan
   
156.008   Amendments; advertising costs
   
156.009   District zone map changes
   
156.010   Development plan requirements
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
156.025   Established; composition
   
156.026   General provisions
   
156.027   Powers and duties
   
156.028   Affirmation, modification, or repeal of appealed decision
   
156.029   Appeal from decision of Board
Certificates and Permits
   
156.040   Occupancy and compliance certificates
   
156.041   Plats accompanying building permit applications
Zone Map Changes
   
156.055   Hearing; notice; contents
   
156.056   Area subject of zone map change; notice to nearby occupants
   
156.057   Hearing; place; rules of conduct
   
156.058   Files concerning proposal; availability
Districts Generally
   
156.070   Districts established; zoning map
   
156.071   Determination of boundaries
   
156.072   Annexed territory
   
156.073   Underwater areas
   
156.074   Vacated areas
   
156.075   General regulations; district use provisions
   
156.076   Exceptions to use, height and area regulations
   
156.077   Special uses
   
156.078   Off-street parking
   
156.079   Parking lots in residence districts
   
156.080   Off-street loading
   
156.081   Nonconforming uses
   
156.082   Performance standards
   
156.083   Dumpster screening
R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District
   
156.095   Use regulations
   
156.096   Height regulations
   
156.097   Area regulations
   
156.098   Development plan
R-1a Single-Family or Semi-Detached Dwelling District
   
156.110   Use regulations
   
156.111   Height regulations
   
156.112   Area regulations
   
156.113   Development plan
R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District
   
156.125   Use regulations
   
156.126   Height regulations
   
156.127   Area regulations
   
156.128   Development plan
R-3 Multiple-Dwelling and/or Two-Story Row House District
   
156.140   Use regulations
   
156.141   Height regulations
   
156.142   Area regulations
   
156.143   Development plan
R-4 Multiple-Dwelling, Three-Story or Less District
   
156.155   Use regulations
   
156.156   Height regulations
   
156.157   Area regulations
   
156.158   Development plan
R-5 Dwelling Four-Story or More District
   
156.170   Generally
   
156.171   Use regulations
   
156.172   Height regulations
   
156.173   Area regulations
   
156.174   Development plan
C-1 Neighborhood Retail District
   
156.185   Generally
   
156.186   Use regulations
   
156.187   Height regulations
   
156.188   Area regulations
   
156.189   Development plan
C-2 General Commercial District
   
156.200   Use regulations
   
156.201   Height regulations
   
156.202   Area regulations
   
156.203   Development plan
C-3 North Harbor Business District
   
156.215   General intent
   
156.216   Permitted uses
   
156.217   Conditional uses
   
156.218   Conditional use procedures
   
156.219   Lot width requirements
   
156.220   Building size requirements
   
156.221   Yard requirements
   
156.222   Height limitations/bulk regulations
   
156.223   Public display area requirements
   
156.224   Commercial signs
   
156.225   Signage location
   
156.226   Signage illumination
   
156.227   Fences
   
156.228   Special Use-01
   
156.229   Special Use-02
   
156.230   Special Use-03
   
156.231   Special Use-04
M-1 Light Industrial District
   
156.245   Generally
   
156.246   Use regulations
   
156.247   Height regulations
   
156.248   Area regulations
   
156.249   Development plan
M-2 Heavy Industrial District
   
156.260   Use regulations
   
156.261   Height regulations
   
156.262   Area regulations
   
156.263   Development plan
P-1 Park District
   
156.275   Generally
   
156.276   Use regulations
GROW-OL Overlay Zoning District
   
156.290   Purpose
   
156.291   Establishment of district
   
156.292   Limitations or exclusions of provisions
   
156.293   Definitions
   
156.294   Permits
   
156.295   Collocation preference
   
156.296   Developmental provisions and requirements
   
156.297   New wireless support structures
   
156.298   Substantial modification
   
156.299   Collocation
   
156.300   Written determinations
   
156.301   Construction requirements
WD-1 Waterfront Development District
   
156.315   General regulations
   
156.316   Use regulations
   
156.317   Height regulations
   
156.318   Area regulations
Manufactured Housing
   
156.330   Definitions
   
156.331   Placement
   
156.332   Standards
   
156.333   Installation standards
   
156.334   Approved siding materials list
   
156.335   Approved roofing materials list
TV Earth Station Antennas
   
156.350   Height and fencing requirements
   
156.351   Installation; setback conformance
   
156.352   Roof installation requirements
   
156.353   Specifications and code compliance
   
156.354   Permit and license requirements
Video Game Arcades
   
156.365   Definitions
   
156.366   Amusement game machines as accessory uses
   
156.367   Amusement arcade regulations
   
156.368   Amusement arcade standards
Signs
   
156.380   Intent
   
156.381   Definitions
   
156.382   General regulations
   
156.383   Prohibited signs
   
156.384   Temporary signs
   
156.385   Signs requiring a special use permit
   
156.386   Zoning classification regulations
   
156.387   Abandoned signs
   
156.388   Pre-application conference; exempt signs
   
156.389   Sign pre-application conference
   
156.390   Permits and fees
   
156.391   Enforcement
Fences
   
156.405   Purpose and intent
   
156.406   Definition and classification
   
156.407   Location of fences
   
156.408   Maintenance and repair of fences
   
156.409   Prohibited fences
   
156.410   Certain fence enclosures required
   
156.411   Permitted fences in residential districts
   
156.412   Permitted fences in commercial and industrial districts
   
156.413   Fence permit pre-application conference
   
156.414   Permits and fees
   
156.415   Enforcement
Historic Preservation Committee
   
156.430   Purpose
   
156.431   Definitions
   
156.432   Applicability of zoning provisions
   
156.433   Acquisitions of appropriate protective interests
Nonconforming Uses
   
156.445   Purpose
   
156.446   Intent
   
156.447   Authority to continue
   
156.448   Determination of nonconformity status
   
156.449   Repairs and maintenance
   
156.450   Nonconforming structure
   
156.451   Nonconforming use
   
156.452   Nonconforming lots
   
156.453   Nonconforming developments
   
156.454   Nonconforming signs
   
156.455   Nonconforming fences
   
156.456   Nonconforming parking area
   
156.457   Nonconforming floodway/floodway fringe/ flood plain
 
   
156.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is as follows:
   (A)   To promote and to protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort,
convenience, and the general welfare of the people;
   (B)   To divide the city into zones and districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of
buildings, structures, and land for residence, business, commercial,
manufacturing, and other specified uses;
   (C)   To protect the character and maintain the stability of residential,
business, commercial, manufacturing areas within the city and to promote the
orderly and beneficial development of the areas;
   (D)   To regulate the intensity of use of land and to determine the area of
open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light and air
and protect the public health;
   (E)   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures which are incompatible with
the character of development or the permitted uses within specified zoning
districts;
   (F)   To prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures as would not comply with the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder; and
   (G)   To provide protection against fire, explosion, and other hazards in
the interest of the public health, safety, comfort, and the general welfare.
(Prior Code, § 156.001)
§ 156.002 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and enforcement of this chapter, the rules and
definitions contained in this section shall be observed and applied, except
when the context clearly indicates otherwise.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used
in the singular number shall include the plural number and the plural the
singular.
   (B)   The word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (C)   The word MAY is permissive.
   (D)   The word LOT shall include the words piece and parcel; the phrase USED
FOR shall include the phrases arranged for, designed for, intended for,
maintained for, and occupied for.
(Prior Code, § 156.002)
§ 156.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental
to that of the principal building on the same lot or to the use of the
premises. An ACCESSORY USE is one which is incidental to the principal use of
the premises.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords only a secondary means of access
to abutting property and which has a width of less than 30 feet.
   ALTERATIONS. As applied to a building or structure, ALTERATIONS mean a
change or rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities or an
enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height or the
moving from one location or position to another.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple or two-family dwelling or
where one or more dwelling units are established above nonresidential uses.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
   AREA, NET SITE. The total area within the property lines excluding external
streets.
   AUTO COURT. A building or group of buildings, whether detached or in
connected units, used as individual sleeping or dwelling units designed
primarily for transient automobile travelers and providing for accessory off-
street parking facilities. The term AUTO COURT includes buildings designated as
tourist courts, motor lodges, motels, and similar appellations.
   BASEMENT. A story partly underground but having less than half of its clear
floor-to-ceiling height below finished grade. A BASEMENT shall be counted as a
story for the purpose of height measurement if the vertical distance between
the ceiling and the average level of the adjoining ground is more than five
feet and the BASEMENT is used for business or dwelling purposes.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. A private dwelling in which, for compensation, lodging and
meals are provided for three but not more than 20 persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof designed or intended for the
enclosure, shelter, or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property
and which is permanently affixed to the land. When a structure is divided into
separate parts by unpierced walls extending from the ground up, each part is
deemed a separate BUILDING.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line of that face of the building nearest the
front line of the lot. This face includes sun parlors and covered porches,
whether enclosed or unenclosed, but does not include steps.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the average grade
(see GRADE) to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck
line of a mansard roof or to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for
gable, hip, and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which it is located.
   CELLAR. A story partly underground and having more than one-half of its
clear height below the average level of the adjoining ground. A CELLAR shall
not be considered in determining the permissible number of stories, nor shall
it be considered as space to be used for living quarters.
   COURT. An unoccupied open space other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building, which is bounded on two or more sides by the walls of a building.
   COVERAGE. The percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the building
area.
   CURB LEVEL. The officially established grade of the curb in front of the
midpoint of the lot.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A development plan for development of real property,
including construction and remodeling, in a zoning classification for which a
development plan is required. All provisions of the DEVELOPMENT PLAN shall be
in conformance with I.C. 36-7-4-1400 et seq., as may be amended from time to
time.
   DOG KENNEL. The keeping of more than three dogs that are more than six
months old.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the incorporated area of the city for
which the regulations governing the use of buildings and premises or the height
and area of buildings are uniform.
   DUMP. A lot or land or part thereof used primarily for the disposal by
abandonment, dumping, burial, burning, or any other means and for whatever
purpose, of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discarded machinery, vehicles
or parts thereof, or waste materials of any kind.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, but not an automobile house
trailer, designed or used exclusively as the living quarters for one or more
families.
   DWELLING, GROUP. A group of two or more one-family, two-family, or multiple-
dwellings occupying a parcel or tract designed and developed as a unit and
having any yard in common.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building used or designed as a residence for three or
more families living independently of each other and doing their own cooking
therein, including apartment houses, apartment hotels, flats, and group houses.
   DWELLING, ROW HOUSE. A building consisting of a series of three or more
dwelling units having a common wall between two adjacent dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SEMI-DETACHED. A building designed for or occupied exclusively by
two families living independently of each other with the units placed side by
side, each unit having one party wall and one side yard.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for and containing a
one family dwelling unit only.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building except a semi-detached dwelling designed
for or occupied exclusively by two families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or portion thereof providing complete living
facilities for one family, including complete single kitchen facilities,
permanently installed.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption
occupying the premises and living as a single housekeeping unit, as
distinguished from a group occupying a boardinghouse, lodginghouse, club,
fraternity, or hotel.
   FILLING STATION. Any area of land, including structures thereon, that is
used or designed to be used for retail sale or dispensing of fuels, lubricants,
tires, batteries, accessories, and minor parts, including installation, for
motor vehicles and which may include facilities used or designed to be used for
polishing, greasing, washing, spraying, dry cleaning, or otherwise cleaning or
servicing motor vehicles, but does not include welding, major repair, or body
work.
   FLOOD or FLOODWATER. The water of any lake or watercourse which is above the
banks and/or outside the channel and banks of the watercourse.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Any floodplain, floodway, floodway fringe district, or
any combination thereof.
   FLOODPROOFED BUILDING. A commercial or industrial building designed to
exclude floodwaters from the interior of that building. All floodproofing shall
be adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures, velocities, impact, and
uplift forces and other factors associated with the regulatory flood.
   FLOOR PROTECTION GRADE. The elevation of the lowest floor or a building or
structure. If a basement is included, the basement floor is considered the
lowest floor. Exception: If a commercial or industrial building is floodproofed
as hereinafter defined, the term FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE applies to the water
surface elevation for which the building is protected.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets measured along the line of the street or, if the street is dead-ended,
then all of the property abutting on one side between an intersecting street
and the dead-end of the street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building used for storage purposes only and
having a capacity of not more than three automobiles or not more than one
automobile per family housed in the building to which the GARAGE is accessory,
whichever is greater. Space therein may be used for not more than one
commercial vehicle and space may be rented for not more than two vehicles of
others than occupants of the building to which the GARAGE is accessory.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage not a private garage, which is used for storage,
repair, rental, servicing, or supplying of gasoline or oil to motor vehicles.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. Any building or premises, used for housing only of motor
driven vehicles other than truck and commercial vehicles pursuant to previous
arrangements and not to transients and at which automobile fuels and oils are
not sold and motor driven vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired, or sold.
   GRADE. The officially established level of the curb in front of the midpoint
of the lot.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or a profession which:
      (1)   Is customarily carried on in a dwelling unit or in a building or
other structure accessory to a dwelling unit;
      (2)   Is carried on by a member of the family residing in the dwelling
unit;
      (3)   Is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling unit
for residential purposes;
      (4)   Which conforms to the following additional conditions:
         (a)   The occupation or profession shall be carried on wholly within
the principal building or within a building or other structure accessory
thereto;
         (b)   No person is employed other than a member of the immediate
family residing on the premises;
         (c)   There shall be no exterior display, no exterior sign except a
small name plate with an area no larger than one square foot and not
illuminated, no exterior storage of materials of the home occupation or
variation from the residential character of the principal building; and
         (d)   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, or
glare shall be produced.
      (5)   In particular, a HOME OCCUPATION may include the following:
         (a)   Art studio;
         (b)   Dressmaking;
         (c)   Professional office of a physician, dentist, lawyer, engineer,
architect, or accountant, within a dwelling occupied by the same;
         (d)   Real estate brokerage, exclusive of service for payment of
bills, collection of rent, and the like; and
         (e)   Teaching with musical instruction, limited to a single pupil at
a time.
      (6)   A HOME OCCUPATION shall not be interpreted to include the
following: barber shops and beauty parlors, commercial stables and kennels,
restaurants, tea rooms, dancing instruction, band instrument instruction in
groups, tourist home, mortuary establishments, stores, trades, or business of
any kind not herein excepted.
   HOSPITAL. A building used for the diagnosis, treatment, or other care of
human ailments, unless otherwise specified.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation and which is open to transient guests.
   INSTITUTION. A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation of a nonprofit
establishment for public use.
   LODGINGHOUSE. A building where lodging only is provided for compensation to
three or more but not more than 20 persons and in which no meals are provided.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this chapter including one principal building together with its accessory
building and the open spaces required by this chapter, and having its principal
frontage upon a dedicated public street or upon a public way.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and
rear lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having a frontage on two nonintersecting
streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, FRONT LOT LINE means a
line separating the lot from the dedicated public street or public way and, in
the case of a corner lot, FRONT LOT LINE means a line separating the narrowest
street frontage of the lot from the street, except in cases where deed
restrictions in effect specify another line as the FRONT LOT LINE or, in the
case of a corner lot where both street frontages are equal in width or where
front lot lines prevail on both street frontages, then both the lines
separating the lot from the dedicated public streets shall be regarded as FRONT
LOT LINES for purposes of conforming to front yard requirements.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line and, in the case of an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a line ten
feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the
front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
   LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision
registered or recorded in the office of the County Recorder or a parcel of land
the deed of which was recorded in the office of the County Recorder prior to
the adoption of this chapter.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
   MOBILE HOMES TIE-DOWNS—SCHEDULE A.
      (1)   Sufficient anchorage to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of any mobile home.
      (2)   At a minimum, the anchorage shall consist of:
         (a)   Over-the top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
mobile home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations, with
mobile homes less than 50 feet long requiring only one additional tie per side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points and mobile homes less than 50
feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         (c)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
         (d)   Additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored.
   NATURAL RESOURCES. The State Natural Resources Commission.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use of land or buildings which does not comply with
all of the regulations of this chapter or of any amendment hereto governing use
for the zoning district in which the use is located.
   PARKING LOT. In the case of nonindustrial areas, PARKING LOT means a
permanently all-weather surfaced parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking
spaces, but not used for the commercial sale or lease of motor vehicles and, in
the case of industrial areas, PARKING LOT means a parcel of land devoted to
unenclosed parking spaces surfaced with slag, cinders, or other dustless
materials.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of not less than 200 square feet, to store one
standard sized automobile, together with a driveway connecting the parking
space with a street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress and egress of
an automobile.
   PLACE. An open unoccupied space other than a street or alley permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a peak discharge which can be expected to
be equaled or exceeded on the average of once in a 100-year period, as
calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the
State Natural Resources Commission. This flood is equivalent to a flood having
a probability of occurrence of 1% in any given year.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROFILE. A longitudinal profile along the thread of a
stream showing the maximum water surface elevation attained by the regulatory
flood.
   ROOMINGHOUSE. See LODGINGHOUSE.
   ROW HOUSE. See DWELLING, ROW HOUSE.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or, if there is
no floor above it, then the surface between the floor and the ceiling next
above it.
   STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a sloping gable, hip, or
gambrel roof; the wall plates on at least two opposite exterior walls of which
are not more than three feet above the floor level of the half-story.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which affords a primary means of access to
abutting property.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls
or partitions, columns, beams, or girders or any substantial change in the roof
or in exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground including, but without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, advertising signs, billboards, platforms, radio towers, sheds, bins,
and fences but excluding, in M-1 and M-2 districts, mechanical or electrical
equipment such as boilers, pressure vessels, pumps, blowers, turbines, motors,
or other machinery, piping, electrical wiring, and the like.
   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION. Any alteration, repair, enlargement, or extension
of an existing building. SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION is considered to occur when
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural element
of the building commences. This term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Survey of Historic, Architectural, Archeological,
and Cultural Sites, Structures, Districts, and Objects.
   YARD. An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed by any
portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided
herein.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side lot
lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line and the
nearest part of the principal building or any projection thereof, other than
the projection of the usual steps or entrance way.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of the lot measured between the
side lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot
line and the rear of the principal building or any projections other than
steps, unenclosed balconies, or unenclosed porches. On both corner lots and
interior lots, the REAR YARD shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the
lot from the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the principal building and the side line of the
lot and extending from the front line of the principal building to the rear
line of the principal building. The width of the required SIDE YARD shall be
measured horizontally from the nearest point of the side lot line toward the
nearest part of the principal building.
(Prior Code, § 156.003) (Ord. 3241, passed - -1979; Ord. 0-98-0002, passed - -
1998)
§ 156.004 SCOPE.
   (A)   All buildings erected hereafter, all uses of land or buildings
established hereafter, all structural alteration or relocation of existing
buildings occurring hereafter and all enlargements of or additions to existing
uses occurring hereafter shall be subject to all regulations of this chapter
which are applicable to the zoning districts in which the buildings, uses, or
land shall be located.
   (B)    However, where a building permit for a building or structure has been
issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date of this chapter; and
provided, that construction is begun within 90 days of the effective date and
diligently prosecuted to completion, the building or structure may be completed
in accordance with the approved plans on the basis of which the building permit
has been issued and may, upon completion, be occupied under a certificate of
occupancy by the use for which originally designated, subject thereafter to the
provisions of §
156.081.
(Prior Code, § 156.004) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.005 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS STANDARDS.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity, and general welfare.
   (B)   Wherever the regulations of this chapter require a greater width or
size of yards, courts, or other open spaces or require a lower height of
buildings or less numbers of stores or require a greater percentage of lot to
be left unoccupied or require a lower density of population or require a more
restricted use of land or impose other higher standards than are required in an
other ordinance or regulation, private deed restrictions, or private covenants,
these regulations shall govern, but if the requirements of the other
ordinances, regulations, private deed restriction, or private covenant is the
more restrictive, then those requirements shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 156.005) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.006 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner to see that this chapter
is enforced through the proper proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 156.006)
§ 156.007 COMMUNITY UNIT PLAN.
   (A)   The owner or owners of any tract of land comprising an area of not
less than five acres may submit to the Common Council a plan for the use and
development of all of the tract of land for residential purposes. The
development plan shall be referred to the City Plan Commission for study and
report and for public hearing. If the Commission approves the development plan,
the plan, together with the recommendation of the Commission, shall be
accompanied by a report stating the reasons for approval of the application and
specific evidence and facts showing that the proposed community unit plan meets
the following conditions:
      (1)   The property adjacent to that area included in the plan will not be
adversely affected;
      (2)   The plan is consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter
to promote public health, safety, morals, and general welfare;
      (3)   The buildings shall be used only for single-family dwellings, two-
family dwellings, or multiple-dwellings, and the usual accessory uses such as
garages, storage space, and community activities, and may include churches; and
      (4)   The average lot area per family contained in the site, exclusive of
the area occupied by streets, will be not less than the lot area per family
required in the district in which the development is located.
   (B)   If the Common Council approves the plan, building permits and
certificate of occupancy may be issued even though the use of land, the
location of the buildings to be erected in the area and yards and open spaces
contemplated by the plan do not conform in some respects to the district
regulations of the district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 156.007)
§ 156.008 AMENDMENTS; ADVERTISING COSTS.
   (A)   Generally. The regulations or districts established by this chapter
may be amended by ordinance of the Common Council, but only after public notice
and hearing, all in the manner provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 156.008)
   (B)   Advertising costs. Any person requesting an amendment shall file with
the Secretary of the City Plan Commission a receipt showing the payment into
the treasury of the city the sum necessary to cover the cost of advertisement
of the proposed change in this chapter or the district zone map or, in lieu of
a payment into the treasury of the city, the City Plan Commission may accept
affidavits from the publishers that costs for advertisements have been paid to
the publishers or otherwise secured.
(Prior Code, § 156.009)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.009 DISTRICT ZONE MAP CHANGES.
   All official changes in the district zone map shall be made by or under the
direction and supervision of the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 156.010)
§ 156.010 DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   In each zoning classification in which the submission and approval of a
development plan is required before construction or exterior remodeling, the
following shall apply:
   (A)   Concurrent with the filing of a petition for development plan review,
the petitioner shall provide the following supportive materials:
      (1)   A site plan, drawn to scale, showing the following:
         (a)   Surrounding land uses;
         (b)   Availability of water, sanitary sewer, stormwater drainage, and
other utilities;
         (c)   Traffic management;
         (d)   Building setback lines;
         (e)   Building coverage, both for existing and proposed primary and
accessory structures;
         (f)   Building separation;
         (g)   Vehicle and pedestrian circulation;
         (h)   Parking;
         (i)   Landscaping;
         (j)   Height, scale, materials, and style of improvements;
         (k)   Signage;
         (l)   Recreation space, if any; and
         (m)   Outdoor lighting.
      (2)   Information establishing that the capacity of adjacent streets and
highways is sufficient to safely and efficiently accept traffic that will be
generated by the new development and that the entrances, streets, and internal
traffic circulation facilities in the development plan are compatible with
existing and planned streets and adjacent developments.
   (B)   The Plan Commission may waive the requirement that certain items be
included in the supportive materials if it makes a written finding that the
materials are unnecessary to an appropriate review of the development plan.
   (C)   If the cost of remodeling does not exceed an amount as set by the city
from time to time, the Plan Commission may waive development requirements for
approval of a development plan.
   (D)   (1)   Application for review of a development plan shall be made in
the same manner as other petitions are filed with the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The fee, notice requirements, hearing requirements, and other
matters relevant to the review shall conform to the existing requirements for
petition for rezoning.
   (E)   In the event that any provision in the ordinance codified in this
section is in contravention to I.C. 36-7-4-1400 et seq., as amended from time
to time, the provision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
of the chapter and code as hereby adopted.
(Prior Code, § 156.011) (Ord. 0-98-0002, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
156.999
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 156.025 ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is established. The Board shall be composed of
members of the City Plan Commission. The Board shall adopt from time to time
rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to carry into effect the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 156.025)
§ 156.026 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and determine appeals from and
review any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Building
Commissioner in the enforcement of this chapter and shall permit and authorize
exceptions to and variations from the district regulations in the classes of
cases or in particular situations specified in this chapter and it shall hear
and try all matters referred to it or upon which it is required to pass under
this chapter. Every decision of the Board shall be subject to view by
certiorari. The appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved or by an officer,
department, board, or bureau of the city. The Building Commissioner shall, upon
the request of the Board of Zoning Appeals, forthwith transmit to the Board all
documents, plans, and papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
   (B)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal,
give due notice thereof to the parties in interest and decide the same within a
reasonable time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or
by attorney.
(Prior Code, § 156.026)
§ 156.027 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error of law
in any order, requirements, decision, or determination made by the Building
Commissioner in the enforcement of this chapter;
   (B)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot held in single ownership at the time of the effective
date of this chapter;
   (C)   To interpret the provisions of this chapter where the street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the district
zone map fixing the several districts;
   (D)   To grant a variation in the regulations when a property owner can show
that his or her property was acquired in good faith and where, by reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property,
at the time of the effective date of this chapter or where, by reason of
exceptional topographical conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional
situations, the strict application of the terms of this chapter actually
prohibits or unreasonably restricts the use of his or her property and where
the Board is satisfied, under the evidence heard before it, that the granting
of the variation will alleviate a clearly demonstrable hardship approaching
confiscation, as distinguished from a special privilege or convenience sought
by the owner, provided, however, that all variations granted under this clause
shall be in harmony with the intended spirit and purpose of this chapter and
shall not constitute a direct and obvious amendment of any district regulations
or district boundaries; and
   (E)   To permit the following exceptions to the district regulations set
forth in this chapter by issuance of a permit maintaining conditions governing
design, construction, or operation of the exception so as to adequately
safeguard the health, safety, and welfare of the occupants of adjoining and
surrounding property:
      (1)   The erection or use of a building or the use of a premises for
public utility purposes only, which the Board finds to be reasonably necessary
for the public convenience or welfare. The public utility structure may also be
authorized by the Board to exceed the height and area regulations of the
district in which it is located; and
      (2)   The reconstruction to begin within 12 months from the time of
adjusted loss either by agreement or by court decree of a nonconforming
building which has been damaged by explosion, fire, act of God or public enemy,
to the extent of more than 50% of the cost of replacement of the entire
building.
(Prior Code, § 156.027)
§ 156.028 AFFIRMATION, MODIFICATION, OR REPEAL OF APPEALED DECISION.
   (A)   In exercising the powers enumerated in this chapter the Board may
reverse or affirm wholly or partly or may modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from and may make an order, requirement,
decision, or determination as ought to be made, and to that end, shall have all
the powers of the Building Commissioner from whom the appeal is taken.
   (B)   Every variation granted or denied by the Board shall be accompanied by
a written finding of fact, based on testimony and evidence and specifying the
reason for granting or denying the variation.
(Prior Code, § 156.028)
§ 156.029 APPEAL FROM DECISION OF BOARD.
   Any person dissatisfied with the decision and action of the Board of Zoning
Appeals may present to the Circuit or Superior Court of the county a petition
for a writ of certiorari. The procedure for making an appeal shall conform to
the requirements of the laws of the state authorizing cities to adopt zoning
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 156.029)
CERTIFICATES AND PERMITS
§ 156.040 OCCUPANCY AND COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Generally. Subsequent to the effective date of this chapter no change
in the use or occupancy of land, nor any change of use or occupancy in any
existing building, other than for single-family dwelling purposes, shall be
made, nor shall any new building be occupied for any purpose other than single-
family dwelling use until a certificate of occupancy and compliance has been
issued by the Building Commissioner. Every certificate of occupancy and
compliance shall state that the new occupancy complies with all provisions of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 156.040)
   (B)   Application; records. Certificates of occupancy and compliance shall
be applied for coincidentally with the application for a building permit and
shall be issued within ten days after the lawful erection or alteration of the
building is completed. A record of all certificates of occupancy and compliance
shall be kept on file in the office of the Building Commissioner and copies
shall be furnished on request to any person having proprietary or tenancy
interest in land or a building affected by the certificate of occupancy and
compliance.
(Prior Code, § 156.041)
   (C)   Prerequisite for permits and occupancy. No permit for excavation for
or the erection or alteration of any building shall be issued before the
application has been made for a certificate of occupancy and compliance and no
building or premises shall be occupied until that certificate and permit is
issued.
(Prior Code, § 156.042)
Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.041 PLATS ACCOMPANYING BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by a plat in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of the lot to be built
upon, the size of the building to be erected and other information as may be
necessary to provide for the enforcement of these regulations. A careful record
of the application and plats shall be kept in the office of the Building
Commissioner. At the time the application is made for the building permit, the
lot corners of the lot to be built upon must be established on the ground to
the satisfaction of the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 156.043) Penalty, see §
156.999
ZONE MAP CHANGES
§ 156.055 HEARING; NOTICE; CONTENTS.
   Prior to the Plan Commission certifying a proposal to the Common Council
where the subject is a zone map change, the Plan Commission shall give notice
of the hearing by publication under I.C. 5-3-1. The notice must state:
   (A)   The time and place of the hearing; and
   (B)   The geographic area that is the subject of the zone map change.
(Prior Code, § 156.055) (Ord. 0-93-0029, passed - -1994)
§ 156.056 AREA SUBJECT OF ZONE MAP CHANGE; NOTICE TO NEARBY OCCUPANTS.
   The Plan Commission shall also give due notice of the proposal to change the
zone maps to all people owning, occupying, or leasing property within 300 feet
of the geographic area that is the subject of the zone map change. The notice
shall be in the form of registered or certified mail and shall be given at
least ten days before the date set for hearing.
(Prior Code, § 156.056) (Ord. 0-93-0029, passed - -1994)
§ 156.057 HEARING; PLACE; RULES OF CONDUCT.
   The hearing must be held by the Plan Commission at the place stated in the
notice. The Commission shall adopt rules governing the conduct of the hearing,
which rules shall include receiving oral comments by interested parties
concerning the proposal.
(Prior Code, § 156.057) (Ord. 0-93-0029, passed - -1994)
§ 156.058 FILES CONCERNING PROPOSAL; AVAILABILITY.
   The files of the Plan Commission concerning the proposal shall be public
record and shall be kept available for inspection by any interested party.
(Prior Code, § 156.058)
DISTRICTS GENERALLY
§ 156.070 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; ZONING MAP.
   (A)   For the purpose of classifying, regulating, and limiting the use of
buildings hereafter to be erected and of regulating and determining the area of
front, rear, and side yards and other open spaces about buildings and of
regulating and determining, the use and intensity of use of land and of lot
areas and of classifying, regulating, and restricting the location of trades,
callings, industries, commercial enterprises, and the location of buildings
designed for the uses herein specified, the city is hereby divided into 11
districts. The use, height, and area regulations are uniform in each class of
district. The districts shall be known as:
      (1)   R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District;
      (2)   R-1a Single-Family or Semi-Detached Dwelling District;
      (3)   R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District;
      (4)   R-3 Multiple-Dwelling and/or Two- Story Row House District;
      (5)   R-4 Multiple-Dwelling, Three-Story or less District;
      (6)   R-5 Multiple-Dwelling, Four-Story or More District;
      (7)   C-1 Neighborhood Retail District;
      (8)   C-2 General Commercial District;
      (9)   M-1 Light Industrial District;
      (10)   M-2 Heavy Industrial District;
      (11)   P-1 Park District;
      (12)   FP Floodplain District;
      (13)   FW Floodway District;
      (14)   FF Floodway Fringe District; and
      (15)   WD-1 Waterfront Development District.
   (B)   The boundaries of these districts are indicated upon the city district
zone map, which map is made a part of this chapter. The district zone map and
all notations, references, and other matters shown thereon shall be as much a
part of this chapter as if the notations, references, and other matters set
forth by the map were all fully described herein and the district zone map is
properly attested and is on file with the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 156.070) (Ord. 3241, passed - -1979; Ord. 0-95-0003, passed - -
1995; Ord. 0-96-0003, passed - -1996)
§ 156.071 DETERMINATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the district zone map adopted by §
156.070, the following rules apply.
   (A)   The district boundaries shall be the center line of either streets or
alleys, unless otherwise shown, and where the districts designated on the
district zone map are bounded approximately by street or alley lines, the
center line of the street or alley shall be construed to be the boundary of the
district.
   (B)   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated and where
the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines and, where the
districts designated on the map are bounded approximately by lot lines, the lot
lines shall be construed to be the boundary of the districts unless the
boundaries are otherwise indicated on the map.
   (C)   In unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines on the district
zone map shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the map.
(Prior Code, § 156.071)
§ 156.072 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   All territory which may hereafter become a part of the city by annexation,
except the areas provided for in §
156.073, shall automatically be classed as lying and being in the R-1 Single-
Family Dwelling District until classifications shall have been changed by an
amendment to this chapter, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 156.072)
§ 156.073 UNDERWATER AREAS.
   (A)   All underwater areas in Lake Michigan not shown on the district zone
map as included in any zoning district shall, when filled, be subject to the
regulations of the zoning district in which the riparian land so extended by
the filled area is located; provided, that all underwater areas and areas which
have been filled prior to the effective date of this chapter and not shown on
the district zone map and lying north on the boundary line between the Inland
Area No. 2 and the Park Board Area, as defined in a certain agreement between
Inland Steel Company and the city dated May 22, 1954, and recorded on March 18,
1955, in Book 633, page 348, in the County Recorder’s office, shall be as so
filled or when filled be subject to the regulations of the M-2 Heavy Industrial
District and that all underwater areas south of the boundary line and north of
the boundary line between Inland Area No. 1 and the Park Board Area, as defined
in the agreement, shall, when filled, be subject solely to the regulations of
the P-1 Park District.
   (B)   All other areas which are under water and are not shown on the
district zone map as included in any district shall be subject, in the event of
being filled, to all of the regulations of the district of which the filled
land is an extension.
(Prior Code, § 156.073)
§ 156.074 VACATED AREAS.
   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated in a manner
authorized by law, the zoning district adjoining each side of the street,
alley, or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of the
vacation and all area included in the vacation shall then and henceforth shall
be subject to all regulations of the extended districts.
(Prior Code, § 156.074)
§ 156.075 GENERAL REGULATIONS; DISTRICT USE PROVISIONS.
   Except as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used, which does not
comply with all of the district regulations established by this chapter for the
district in which the building or land is located.
   (B)   The minimum yards and other open spaces, including the intensity of
use provisions contained in this chapter for each and every building hereafter
erected or structurally altered, shall not be encroached upon or considered as
yard or open spaces requirements or intensity of use requirements for any other
building, except as expressly provided by this chapter.
   (C)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered for
residential purposes shall be located on a lot. In no case shall there be more
than one principal building for residential purposes on one lot.
(Prior Code, § 156.075) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.076 EXCEPTIONS TO USE, HEIGHT AND AREA REGULATIONS.
   The district regulations hereinafter set forth in this section qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the district regulations appearing elsewhere in
this chapter.
   (A)   Public, semi-public, or public service buildings, hospitals,
institutions, or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a
height not exceeding 60 feet and churches and temples may be erected to a
height not exceeding 75 feet if the building is set back from each yard line at
least one foot for each two feet of additional building height above the height
limit otherwise provided in the district in which the building is built.
   (B)   Single-family dwellings and two-family dwellings in the dwelling
districts may be increased in height by not more than ten feet when the side
and rear yards are increased over the yard requirements of the district in
which they are located by not less than ten feet, but they shall not exceed
three stories in height.
   (C)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments,
stacks, stage towers, or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers,
spires, church steeples, wireless towers, farm buildings, or necessary
mechanical appurtenances, may be erected to any height not in conflict with
other ordinances or regulations.
   (D)   Buildings on through lots and extending through from street to street
may waive the requirements for a rear yard by furnishing an equivalent open
space in lieu of the required rear yard.
   (E)   Accessory buildings which are not a part of the main building may be
built in a rear yard within three feet of the rear and side lot lines. An
accessory building which is not a part of the main building shall not occupy
more than 30% of the required rear yard.
   (F)   Accessory buildings which are to be used for storage purposes only may
be erected upon a lot prior to the construction of the main building.
   (G)   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky unobstructed
except for accessory buildings in a rear yard and except for the ordinary
projections of skylights, sills, belt courses, cornices, and ornamental
features projecting not to exceed 12 inches. This requirement shall permit the
construction of fences not exceeding ten feet in height except on that portion
of lots within 30 feet of the intersection of the street curb lines or pavement
edges, where there are no curb lines, of two or more streets, where wire fences
will be permitted; provided, that land use does not obstruct sight lines at
elevations between two feet and six feet.
   (H)   Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways,
and balconies opening upon a yard not more than five feet and the ordinary
projections of chimneys and flues are permitted.
   (I)   For the purpose of side yard requirements, a two-family dwelling shall
be considered as one building occupying a single lot.
   (J)   An open unenclosed or screened porch or paved terrace, may project
into a front yard for a distance not exceeding ten feet.
   (K)   More than one industrial, commercial, multiple-dwelling, or
institutional building may be erected upon a single lot or tract, but the yards
and open spaces required around the boundaries of the lot or tract shall not be
encroached upon by any buildings, nor shall there be any change in the
intensity of the use regulations.
   (L)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may consider issuing a variance to the
terms and provisions of the Floodway (FW), Floodway Fringe (FF), or Floodplain
(FP) Districts; provided, the applicant offers that:
      (1)   There exists a good and sufficient cause for the requested
variance;
      (2)   The strict application of the terms of the ordinance codified in
this section will constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   The grant of the requested variance will not increase flood
heights, create additional threats to public safety, cause additional public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (M)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may issue a variance to the terms and
provisions of the Floodway (FW), Floodway Fringe (FF), or Floodplain (FP)
Districts subject to the following standards and conditions:
      (1)   No variance or exception for a residential use in a Floodway (FW)
District may be granted;
      (2)   Any variance or exception granted in a Floodway (FW) District will
require a permit from Natural Resources;
      (3)   Variances or exceptions to the flood protection grade requirements
in a Floodway Fringe (FF) District may be granted only when a new structure is
to be located on a lot of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to, and
surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the flood
protection elevation;
      (4)   Any variance or exception granted in a Floodplain (FP) District
will require a permit or letter of recommendations from Natural Resources. If a
letter of recommendation is received from Natural Resources, the Board of
Zoning Appeals may apply the standards pertaining to a Floodway Fringe (FF)
district contained in division (M)(3) above;
      (5)   Variance or exception may be granted for the reconstruction or
restoration of any structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the State Survey of Historic, Architectural, Archeological, and Cultural
Sites, Structures, District, and Objects;
      (6)   All variances shall give the minimum relief necessary, and be such
that the maximum practical flood protection will be given to the proposed
construction; and
      (7)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall issue a written notice to the
recipient of a variance or exception that the proposed construction will be
subject to increased risks to life and property and could require payment of
excessive flood insurance premiums.
(Prior Code, § 156.076) (Ord. 3241, passed - -1979) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.077 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   There are occasions where following the strict letter of this code is
not feasible or desired.
      (1)   This section provides remedy for those instances, by allowing
owners of property to receive a special use permit which authorizes a use or
uses in a zoning classification in which the uses are not permitted uses, after
public hearing by the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals and review by the Common
Council.
      (2)   The establishment of any of the following uses shall require a
special use permit:
         (a)   Any public building erected and used by any public agency;
         (b)   The extraction of raw materials such as rock, gravel, sand,
clay, and the like;
         (c)   Hospitals, clinics, clubs, and institutions; provided, however,
that the buildings or uses will be located upon a lot of sufficient area and
shall be of a character that they will not have any serious and depreciating
effects upon the value of the surrounding area; and provided, further, that the
required building setback shall be established as a condition of the special
use permit;
         (d)   Recreation field;
      (e)   Heliport or landing field for aircraft;
      (f)   Greenhouses; provided that any structures shall not be less than 75
feet from all property lines;
      (g)   Riding stables;
      (h)   Temporary and seasonal uses, including roadside stands and
recreational and amusement uses;
      (i)   Structures with drive-through facilities;
      (j)   Public storage facilities;
      (k)   Towers and/or other facilities for wireless communication, not
associated with a principal use;
      (l)   Waste transfer station;
      (m)   Trucking company;
      (n)   Storage of slag, stone, cinder, coal, explosives, fireworks, toxic
materials, and/or hazardous materials;
      (o)   Nonresidential uses in residential zoning classifications, other
than permitted uses;
      (p)   Handling, processing, and/or manufacture of acid, cement, lime,
gypsum or plaster of paris, explosives, fireworks, and ammunition, toxic
materials, and/or hazardous materials;
      (q)   Packing plants and/or slaughter yards;
      (r)   Crushing or pulverizing of slag, stone, cider, coal, or similar
materials;
      (s)   All steel pickling processes and other pickling processes of any
nature;
      (t)   1.   Floodplain (FP) District and Floodway (FW) District. The
following special uses may be permitted in the Floodplain District or Floodway
District only after all required permitting by other agencies with floodplain
or floodway jurisdiction have been obtained. Any special use permit issued
shall include all terms and conditions imposed by other permitting agencies,
and additional restrictions may be imposed. All buildings, structures, and
additions to existing buildings and structures shall have flood protection
grades not less than two feet above the regulatory flood profile.
               a.   Water management and use facilities, such as dams, docks,
Dolphins, channel improvements, dikes, jetties, groins, marinas, piers,
wharves, levees, seawalls, flood walls, weirs, and irrigation facilities;
               b.   Transportation facilities, such as streets, bridges,
roadways, fords, airports, heliports, pipe lines, railroad, and utility
transmissions facilities;
               c.   Temporary or seasonal floodplain occupancy;
               d.   Water-related urban uses, such as wastewater treatment
facilities, storm sewers, electric generating and transmission facilities, and
water treatment facilities;
               e.   Other flood tolerant or open space urban uses such as
floodproofed buildings, race tracks, tennis courts, park facilities, outdoor
theaters, fills, truck freight terminals, radio, television, or wireless
communication towers, parking lots, and mineral extractions; and
               f.   Residential structures constructed on the building site so
as to minimize obstruction to the flow of floodgates.
            2.   Floodproofing of nonresidential structures, if proposed, must
be in accordance with the definition of a floodproofed building as set forth in
this municipal code and must be so certified by a professional engineer or a
registered architect licensed to practice in the state.
      (u)   Planned unit development (PUD). PUDs are special uses. In addition
to review of the above-stated criteria, PUDs must have;
            1.   Minimum site area of one acre;
            2.   Uniform control, either by ownership or written agreement, of
all uses and activities within the PUD;
            3.   An approved concept plan set which includes a site plan,
engineering plan, landscape plan, and architectural plans which depict the
intent of the proposal. The plans shall be drawn at a scale, as approved by the
City Planner, and shall identify proposed uses, buildings, and structures,
roadways, parking, pedestrian circulation, common open spaces, and landscape
areas; and shall identify the means by which the proposal will be constructed
and serviced;
            4.   A written description accompanying the concept site plan
outlining the intent of the site plan, including a phasing plan if applicable;
            5.   A written estimate of construction costs for all buildings and
site improvements, with subtotals for major development features;
            6.   Declarations and covenants, and restrictions proposed; and
            7.   Additional information as required by the Plan Commission.
      (v)   Tattoo and body piercing establishments;
      (w)   Boardinghouses and lodging houses;
      (x)   Heliport, accessory to a hospital;
      (y)   Landfills;
      (z)   Tank farms, also known as oil depots or oil terminals, defined as
one or more tanks constructed or erected to store crude oil and/or petroleum
products; and
      (aa)   Outdoor storage of vehicles as a principal use.
   (B)   Upon petition to the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) for a
special use, the BZA shall hold a public hearing in conformance with State Code
and BZA Rules of Procedure. The BZA shall make findings of fact determining
whether the proposed special use:
      (1)   Promotes the public interest;
      (2)   Promotes the public health, safety, and welfare;
      (3)   Promotes public convenience;
      (4)   Does not adversely affect property values in the surrounding area;
      (5)   Conforms to the purpose, intent, and spirit of the zoning
regulations;
      (6)   Is compatible with the surrounding area;
      (7)   Is not detrimental or injurious to the surrounding area; and
      (8)   Does not create excessive nuisance in the surrounding area.
   (C)   The BZA shall forward the petition with the BZA recommendation, if any
shall be made, to the Common Council of the city. The Common Council may, after
review of the petition and findings of fact, issue a special use permit. The
special use permit may be issued for a particular period of time, set a time
for review of the use, and/or have conditions attached thereto.
(Prior Code, § 156.077) (Ord. 0-00-0016, passed 6-15-2000 Ord. 09-0015, passed
7-13-2009; Ord. 11-0009, passed - -2011; Ord. 12-0022, passed 6-25-2012; Res.
02-2016, passed 5-2-2016; Ord. 16-0002, passed 5-23-2016; Ord. 19-0001, passed
3-25-2019; Ord. 19-0010, passed 7-8-2019) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.078 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   The following on-site parking shall be provided and satisfactorily
maintained on the property by the owner of the property for each building in
existence on that property, or which, after the day when this section becomes
effective, is erected, enlarged, or altered for use for any of the following
purposes, provided that uses already established on the effective date of this
section and rendered nonconforming by the provisions thereof shall be subject
to the regulations of §
156.081. The following on-site parking space requirements are exclusive of
space requirements for access drives or aisles:
      (1)   Single-family and two-family dwelling: one parking space per
dwelling unit;
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings.
 
Number of Dwelling Units in Building Number of Parking Spaces Required
4 to 5                               3
6 to 7                               4
One parking space for each two additional dwelling units
 
      (3)   Auditorium, theater, or other places of public assemblage: one
parking space for each six seats provided for its patrons, based on maximum
seating capacity;
      (4)   School, public, or parochial: one parking space for each three
members of the staff plus one space for each ten seats in auditorium or
gymnasium;
      (5)   Hotels, boardinghouses, or lodging houses: one parking space for
each three sleeping rooms;
      (6)   Auto court or motel: one parking space for each sleeping room;
      (7)   Restaurant or other eating place: one parking space for each five
seats;
      (8)   Hospital, sanitarium, or nursing home: one parking space for each
five seats;
      (9)   Clinic, medical, or dental: three parking spaces per doctor plus
one additional space for every two employees;
      (10)   Retail stores, commercial recreational, other than theaters,
private clubs, and lodges: one parking space for each 200 square feet of ground
floor area;
      (11)   Banks, offices, postal stations, and the like: one space for each
300 square feet of total floor area or one space for each three employees,
whichever is the lesser;
      (12)   Wholesale establishments: one space for each three employees; and
      (13)   Industrial: one space for each four employees, based on average
total employment.
   (B)   Where feasible, off-street parking facilities in industrial zones
under division (A)(13) above, shall be provided for contractor’s employees
temporarily engaged in work in a construction project; but if not feasible,
shall not be required.
   (C)   All parking spaces required in nonindustrial zones pursuant to this
section shall all be located on-site, on the same lot or parcel as the use or
proposed use which requires those parking spaces, except that the Board of
Zoning Appeals may permit the required parking spaces to be on an off-site
premises if:
      (1)   It determines that it is impractical to provide parking on-site;
      (2)   The off-site premises is within a reasonable distance, which,
except in M-1 and M-2 Districts, shall be limited to no more than 300 feet;
      (3)   The total number of parking spaces on the off-site premises is,
after giving effect to the number of off-site parking spaces proposed, not less
than the sum of the minimum number of parking spaces required under this
section for each separate use to which the off-site premises is being put; and
      (4)   No prior variances have been granted as to the off-site premises to
reduce the number of parking spaces below the minimum number required by this
section, for any of the uses on the off-site premises.
   (D)   Surfacing of all off-street parking areas shall be improved with an
all-weather dust-proof material meeting the standard specifications of the
city, except in M-1 and M-2 Districts, slag, cinder, or other dustless material
shall be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 156.078) (Ord. 0-08-0011, passed 5-12-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.079 PARKING LOTS IN RESIDENCE DISTRICTS.
   In order to meet requirement for vehicle parking space, where the space is
not available on the lot occupied by a building, the Board of Zoning Appeals
may, after receipt of a favorable report from the City Plan Commission on the
proposal and after public notice and hearing, grant a permit for the
establishment of a parking lot in a residence district; provided, that the
entire area of the parking lot is within 300 feet of a C-1, C-2, M-1, or M-
2 District or, in the case of a church or other place of congregation in a
residence district, immediately adjacent to the church or other place of
congregation; and provided further, that:
   (A)   There are no sales, dead storage, repair work, dismantling, or
servicing of any kind on a parking lot;
   (B)   Entrances and exits shall be approved as to location by the Board of
Public Safety;
   (C)   No parking shall be permitted between the front yard line and the
front lot line. This shall not exclude use of front yard area for entrance or
egress requirements. Side yard requirements shall be the same as those required
for a single story structure;
   (D)   The lot shall be paved with an all-weather dustproof or hard surface
meeting the standard specifications of the City Board of Public Works and
Safety;
   (E)   No advertising signs shall be erected upon a lot except not more than
one sign each street side to indicate the operator and purpose of the lot. The
sign shall not exceed 20 square feet in area and shall not extend more than ten
feet in overall height above the ground;
   (F)   Lighting facilities, if provided, shall be so arranged as to be
reflected away from residentially zoned or used property; and
   (G)   If, at any time after the issuance of the required permits, any of the
provisions of this section are not complied with, the permits shall be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 156.079) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.080 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   On the same premises with every building, structure, or part thereof
in existence or erected, established, or enlarged and occupied for
manufacturing, storage, warehouse goods display, department store, wholesale
store, retail store, hotel, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning, or other uses
involving the receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained adequate space for standing, loading,
and unloading in order to avoid undue interference with public use of the
street or alley. Uses already established on the effective date of this chapter
and rendered nonconforming by the provisions of this section shall be subject
to the regulations of §
156.081.
   (B)   Off-street loading or unloading space, unless otherwise adequately
provided for, shall include a 12 foot by 35 foot loading space with 14 foot
height clearance for every 20,000 square feet or fraction thereof in excess of
3,000 square feet of floor area used for abovementioned purposes. These
requirements may upon appeal be increased, modified, or waived by the Board of
Zoning Appeals where the circumstances justify the action.
(Prior Code, § 156.080) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.081 NONCONFORMING USES.
   The lawful use of a building or premises existing on the effective date of
this chapter may be continued although the use does not conform to all the
provisions of this chapter except as herein provided.
   (A)   Whenever a nonconforming title use has been changed to a conforming
use or to a use permitted in a district of greater restrictions, it shall not
thereafter be changed to a nonconforming use or a less restricted use, except
upon approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals; provided, that where a property
in an M-1 or M-2 District conforms with requirements for off-street parking
through the utilization of leased land on the effective date of this chapter,
the use of that property shall not be considered to have changed from
conforming to nonconforming use by virtue of the loss of the right to the use
of leased property for off-street parking purposes, until the time or unless
additional property becomes available, in which event off-street parking
requirements shall be met before other uses are established.
   (B)   A building designed or arranged for a nonconforming use or devoted to
a nonconforming use on the effective date of this chapter shall not be
reconstructed, altered, or enlarged unless it is designed, arranged, and
intended for a conforming use, except when the building is destroyed or damaged
by fire or other casualty so that the cost of restoration to the condition in
which it was before the occurrence of the fire or other casualty will not
exceed 50% of the cost of replacement of the entire building.
   (C)   A nonconforming use of a building or structure designed for a
conforming use shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of the
conforming building or structure nor changed except to a conforming use.
   (D)   These provisions apply in the same manner to a use which may become a
nonconforming use due to a later amendment to this chapter.
   (E)   The nonconforming use of land for storage purposes shall be
discontinued within five years from the effective date of this chapter and the
use of land for storage purposes which becomes nonconforming by reason of
subsequent change in this chapter shall also be discontinued within five years
from the date of change.
   (F)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of one
year, the use shall not thereafter be established and any future use shall be
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize, by written permit, in a
residential district for a period of not more than one year from the date of
the permit, a temporary building for commercial or industrial use incidental to
the residential construction and development of the district.
   (H)   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, or designated use of a building for which a building permit has
been heretofore issued and the construction of which has been started within 90
days of the date of the permit and diligently prosecuted to completion
according to the plans as filed.
   (I)   (1)   In a Floodway (FW) District, no nonconforming use may be
expanded or enlarged nor can a building undergo substantial modification
without a permit for construction in a floodway from Natural Resources.
      (2)   In a Floodway Fringe (FF) District a building which constitutes a
nonconforming use may undergo substantial modification provided the
modification is on a one-time-only basis and further provided that the
modification does not increase the value of the building, by more than 40% of
its pre-improvement market value, (excluding the value of land) unless the
building is permanently changed to a conforming use.
      (3)   A nonconforming use in a Floodplain (FP) District may be altered,
enlarged, or extended, on a one-time-only basis, provided the procedures set
forth in the ordinance codified in this section with respect to new
construction in a Floodplain (FP) District are followed and further provided
the alterations, enlargements, or extensions do not increase the value of the
building structure, or other use (excluding the value of land) by more than 40%
of its pre-improvement market value, unless the building, structure, or use is
permanently changed to a conforming use.
      (4)   Any nonconforming use in the FP, FW, and FF Districts which is
damaged by flood, fire explosion, act of God, or the public enemy may be
restored to its original dimensions and conditions, provided the damage does
not reduce the value of the buildings, excluding the value of the land, by more
than 40% of its predamage value.
(Prior Code, § 156.081) (Ord. 3241, passed - -1979) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.082 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   It is the intent of this section to provide that businesses,
utilities, light industry, research, offices, residential uses, and related
activities shall be constructed, maintained, and operated with a proper
appearance from streets and adjoining properties and to provide that each
permitted use shall be a good neighbor to adjoining properties by controlling
the emission of noise, odor, exterior lighting, vibration, smoke, particulate
matter, gases, and wastes.
      (2)   It is further the intent of this section to state the conditions of
construction and operation with which uses will be expected to comply. In many
cases, the relation of a prospective use to all performance standards cannot be
judged properly at the time of building permit issuance. In these cases, the
recipient of the building permit should note that these standards, like all
other provisions of this chapter, are continuing obligations and that all uses
shall be expected to operate in compliance with these standards. The building
plans shall bear the signature of a qualified professional stating that all
performance standards will be complied with based upon the submitted building
plans. The city retains the right to conduct its own investigation to determine
compliance with the performance standards at any time.
   (B)   Compliance. The performance standards set forth in this section shall
be complied with and any use which fails to comply with these standards shall
be in violation of this section and shall be subject to the penalty provided
for violations.
   (C)   Performance standards; measurements. Each measurable standard shall be
measured at the appropriate indicated location in accordance with the
provisions of this section. The following performance standards shall be
applicable to all uses in all zoning districts.
      (1)   Noise. The decibels generated from a use shall not exceed the
exterior noise limitations set forth in Table 1 of this section as measured at
the property line of the parcel from which the noise is generated. The decibels
typically generated by particular uses are given in Table 2 of this section.
         (a)   Measurement of noise. Noise shall be measured at the property
line of the parcel from which the noise is generated. Noise shall be muffled so
as not to become violative of applicable standards due to intermittence, beat
frequency, shrillness, or intensity. The sound pressure level shall be measured
with a sound level meter and an octave band analyzer that conforms to ANSI
S1.4-1983 (American National Standards Institute) specifications, or any
successor standard promulgated by ANSI. Preferred frequencies for acoustical
measurements shall be used.
 
Table 1
Land Use         7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Commercial       62 dBA                 55 dBA
Industrial       80 dBA                 80 dBA
Light industrial 70 dBA                 70 dBA
Residential      55 dBA                 50 dBA
 
Table 2
Sound Environment Typical Sound Pressure Levels Generated (dBA)
Table 2
Sound Environment               Typical Sound Pressure Levels Generated (dBA)
Air-conditioning unit (20 feet) 60 dBA
Broadcast studio                20 dBA
Freeway traffic                 70 dBA
Library                         30 dBA
Light auto traffic (100 feet)   50 dBA
Quiet office                    40 dBA
Threshold of hearing            0 dBA
Vacuum cleaner (5 feet)         80 dBA
Air-raid siren                  140 dBA
Jet takeoff (200 feet)          130 dBA
Nightclub with band playing     120 dBA
Passing subway train at 10 feet 110 dBA
Passing bus or truck at 10 feet 100 dBA
Passing car at 10 feet          90 dBA
 
         (b)   Exceptions.
            1.   Nighttime building or construction operations. It shall be
unlawful to allow or permit any building or construction operations (including
construction related noises, such as the delivery of equipment or material or
the operation of tools, machinery, or apparatus) on private property between
the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. within 1,000 feet of any residence and
between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in all other districts. Work occurring in the
public right-of-way, on public property, or within public utility easement
areas shall be exempt from these restrictions.
            2.   Daytime building or construction operations. Between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., noises customarily resulting from construction work
and from the maintenance of grounds shall be exempt from the limitations listed
in Table 1 of this section.
            3.    Amplifiers; noise generated by an amplifier or other device
for which a license has been obtained in accordance with current city ordinance
for amplifier, permitting, use, and the like. Amplifiers, of this code shall be
exempt from limitations listed in Table 1 of this section.
            4.   Other exemptions.
               a.   Valves, warning devices, aircraft, and railroads, emergency
generators, snowplowing, mosquito abatement, and emergency equipment/vehicles
used only during times of emergency;
               b.   Church bells, chimes, and carillons;
               c.   The authorized use of recreational facilities within the
property of schools, colleges, and public parks between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m.; and
               d.   Substations for public utilities.
         (c)   External speaker systems.
            1.   External speaker systems shall not generate noise that is
heard beyond the property line.
            2.   External speakers and audible external paging systems are
prohibited for businesses conducting motor vehicle sales. Existing
nonconforming speakers at automotive dealerships shall be brought into
compliance within six months from the date of adoption of this division.
      (2)   Odors. At a point along or outside any property line, the emission
of odorous matter in a quantity as to be offensive or in excess of the odor
threshold shall not be permitted.
         (a)   The measurement of odor threshold shall be in accordance with
the American Society for Testing and Materials Method DI391-57 Standard Method
For Measurement Of Odor In Atmosphere (Dilution Method) (Philadelphia: American
Society of Testing and Materials, 1957).
         (b)   Detailed plans for the prevention of odors crossing property
lines may be required before the issuance of a building permit.
      (3)   Exterior lighting. All public and private outdoor lighting
installed in the city shall be in conformance with the requirements set forth
in this division.
         (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            EXTERIOR LIGHTING. The illumination of an outside area or object by
any manmade device that produces light by any means.
            FIXTURE. The assembly that houses the lamp or lamps and can include
all or some of the following parts: a housing, a mounting bracket or pole
socket, a lamp holder, a ballast, a reflector or mirror, and/or a refractor or
lens.
            FLAT LENSES. A glass or plastic element used in luminaires that is
flush or inside the bottom edge of the luminaire.
            FOOT-CANDLE (fc). A unit of illumination produced on a surface, all
points of which are one foot from a uniform point source of one standard
candle.
            FOOT-CANDLE HORIZONTAL MEASUREMENT (hfc). The measurement of foot-
candles utilizing a direct reading, portable light meter mounted on a
horizontal position.
            GLARE. The sensation produced by luminance within the visual field
that is sufficiently greater than the luminance to which the eyes are adapted
to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility.
            LIGHT LOSS FACTOR (LLF). A factor applied to lamps which estimates
the lumen output of a lamp sometime after installation. (For example, a lamp
with an initial lumen rating of 10,000 which has a light loss factor of 0.8 is
estimated to put out 8,000 lumens. A lamp with an initial lumen rating of
10,000, which has a LIGHT LOSS FACTOR of 1.0, is estimated to put out 10,000
lumens.)
            LUMINAIRE. A complete lighting unit consisting of a light source
and all necessary mechanical, electrical, and decorative parts.
            SAG LENSES. A glass or plastic element used in luminaires that
extends below the bottom edge of the luminaires.
            UNIFORMITY RATIO. Describes the average level of illumination in
relation to the lowest level of illumination for a given area.
         (b)   Luminaire design factors.
            1.   The style of the light and light standard shall be consistent
with the architectural style of the principal building.
            2.   Pathways, sidewalks, and trails shall be lighted with low
level fixtures not to exceed eight feet in pole height.
            3.   All building lighting for security or aesthetics shall include
glare controls and shall be shielded. Floodlighting is discouraged, and if
used, shall be shielded to prevent disability glare for drivers or pedestrians,
light trespass beyond the property line, and light above a 90-degree horizontal
plane. Wallpack type fixtures shall not be permitted.
            4.   All parking area lighting shall include glare controls and
shall be shielded.
            5.   Poles supporting lights shall be no taller than 23 feet in a
residential district and shall be dark-sky light fixtures, 25 feet in a
commercial district, a commercial part of a residential planned unit
development, or in office/business park districts, and 32 feet in any
industrial district.
         (c)   Standards and requirements.
            1.   Standards; exception. Lighting shall be provided in accordance
with the standards of the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America
(IESNA) as follows for all uses.
Table 3
                   IESNA Maintained
IESNA Parking Lot  Horizontal
Levels of Activity Illuminance Standards
                   (Foot-Candles)
                   General Parking and    Vehicle Use Area
                   Pedestrian             (Only)
                   Area
                   Ave.                   Min.              Uniformity Ratio
Table 3
                      IESNA Maintained
IESNA Parking Lot     Horizontal
Levels of Activity    Illuminance Standards
                      (Foot-Candles)
                      General Parking and    Vehicle Use Area
                      Pedestrian             (Only)
                      Area
                      Ave.                   Min.              Uniformity Ratio
High                  5.0                    0.9               4:1
Church parking                                                
Community shopping
centers (space to                                             
99,999 square feet)
Educational                                                   
facilities
Entertainment                                                 
theaters
Fast food facilities                                          
(>40 seats)
Hospital parking                                              
Industrial employee                                           
parking
Major cultural events                                         
Major athletic events                                         
Multi-family                                                  
residential complex
Neighborhood shopping
centers (retail space                                         
of less than 5,000
square feet)
Office parks                                                  
Regional shopping
centers (space above                                          
100,000 square feet)
 
            2.   Automotive dealerships. Lighting shall be provided in
accordance with the standards of the Illuminating Engineering Society of North
America (IESNA) as follows for automotive dealerships:
 
Table 4
                                                      Standards (Foot-
                                                      Candles) -
Areas of Activity         Description                 Target
                                                      Maintained
                                                      Levels
                          Includes all portions of
                          the lot dedicated to
                          customer parking, employee
                          parking, site entrance
                          areas, and inventory areas
                          including related drive
                          aisles. Car dealerships
Circulation area          shall comply with this      10 foot-candles - average
                          provision no later than
                          January 1, 2010. However,
                          compliance with the
                          provision related to
                          security lighting, below,
                          is required from 10:00 p.m.
                          until sunrise.
                          The first row of vehicles
                          adjacent to a major/minor
                          arterial, including the
                          area in front of the
                          vehicle up to the property
                          line and behind the vehicle
Feature display area      up to the merchandise area  75 foot-candles - maximum
                          and/or the circulation area
                          including drive aisles.
                          However, compliance with
                          the provision related to
                          security lighting, below,
                          is required from 10:00 p.m.
                          until sunrise.
                          All other rows of vehicles
                          on a lot used for general
                          auto sales, including all
                          areas surrounding the
                          vehicle up to the defined
                          circulation area including
                          related drive aisles. Car
Merchandise area          dealerships shall comply    50 foot-candles - maximum
                          with this provision no
                          later than January 1, 2010.
                          However, compliance with
                          the provision related to
                          security lighting, below,
                          is required from 10:00 p.m.
                          until sunrise.
                          The average amount of light
                          found on site within each
                          of the areas of activity,
                          including the feature
Security lighting, Monday display area, average
- Sunday                  merchandise area, and       10 foot-candles - average
                          circulation area from 10:00
                          p.m. until sunrise. Car
                          dealerships shall comply
                          with this provision no
                          later than January 1, 2010.
 
               a.   In determining the maximum foot-candle standard provided
above, all foot-candle measurements shall be taken from the ground at any point
within the areas of activity or at the property line.
               b.   In determining the average foot-candle standard, all foot-
candle measurements shall be taken from the ground at ten foot increments
throughout the areas of activity.
               c.   Sag lenses are prohibited from use on all car dealership
luminaries. All existing dealerships using sag lenses at the time of adoption
date hereof, will be grandfathered and considered legal nonconforming for the
sole purpose of its lens type until the dealership replaces greater than 10% of
their existing fixtures on site during any 12-month period at which time full
compliance shall be required. All new fixtures shall have flat lenses.
               d.   Light shields used by car dealerships to control light and
reduce glare shall be made of nonreflective material.
            3.   Exterior lighting. Exterior lighting shall be designed at or
below the following average maintained foot-candles at the property line:
 
Table 5
Location                            Maximum Foot-Candles At Property Line -
                                    Horizontal Measurement
Intensity at adjoining right-of-way Horizontal fc: 0.50
Intensity at adjoining major/minor  Horizontal fc: 10.0
arterial rights-of-way
Nonresidential to residential       Horizontal fc: 0.10
Nonresidential to nonresidential    Horizontal fc: 2.0
Residential to residential          Horizontal fc: 0.10
 
            4.   Light loss factor. The light loss factor (LLF) shall be a
minimum of 0.75 to a maximum of 0.8 for all uses.
         (d)   Measuring light levels.
            1.   Metering equipment. Light levels of both direct and indirect
light shall be measured in foot-candles with a direct reading, portable light
meter. Readings shall be taken only after the cell has been exposed long enough
to provide a constant reading.
            2.   Method of measurement. Foot-candle horizontal measurements
shall be taken at a height of three and one-half feet aboveground.
         (e)   Exceptions and variances.
            1.   Because of their unique requirement for nighttime visibility
and their limited hours of operation, ball diamonds, playing fields, tennis
courts, and other outdoor recreational facilities shall be exempted from the
general standards of this division. Lighting for outdoor recreational
facilities shall be shielded to minimize light and glare from spilling onto
adjacent residential properties. The maximum permitted illumination at
adjoining residential property lines shall be one foot-candle. The maximum
permitted illumination at adjoining nonresidential property lines shall be two
foot-candles.
            2.   Luminaires used for public roadway illumination by a public
transportation agency shall be exempt from the requirements of this section but
may be subject to the regulations of federal or state agencies or by
intergovernmental agreements.
            3.   Decorative seasonal lighting shall be limited to a power
rating of less than or equal to 75 watts.
            4.   Temporary emergency lighting used by police, firefighters, and
other emergency services, as well as all vehicular luminaires shall be exempt.
            5.   Hazard warning lights that are required by local or federal
regulatory agencies shall be exempt.
            6.   Transportation facilities shall be exempt.
            7.   Public walkways shall be exempt.
            8.   When site characteristics are unique and the requirements of
this section cannot be met, the City Planner has the authority to approve
nonconforming lighting designs if the illumination levels and/or uniformity
ratios are within 20% of the values set forth in this division. All other
nonconforming designs shall be subject to approval of the City Council through
the variance procedure or development agreement.
         (f)   Nonconforming luminaires. 
            1.   Exterior lighting luminaires in existence on the effective
date of this division shall be exempt from the standards of this division and
shall be considered legally nonconforming. The fixtures may be repaired and
maintained. However, if any legal nonconforming luminaire is moved or damaged
by any means to an extent that its total replacement is necessary, the
luminaire, or replacement, shall comply with this division.
            2.   For development activity involving improved property,
luminaires shall be required to comply with this division when the floor area
of any building or structure, or parking areas, or any combination thereof, is
increased by 10% or greater.
         (g)   Exterior lighting plan required.
            1.   A lighting plan shall be required any time exterior lighting
is proposed, or modified, that is associated with a residential use of greater
density than a one- or two-family dwelling or with any commercial, office,
industrial, or other use. The lighting plan shall be submitted with the site
plan information as required in this section.
            2.   The lighting plan shall include a site plan indicating
location of light fixtures and intensity of foot-candles at various points on
the site, catalog cuts of the proposed fixtures, and a summary table containing
average foot-candles, minimum foot-candles, maximum foot-candles, uniformity
ratio (average/minimum), foot-candles at the property line, pole height, and
light loss factor (LLF). The plan shall also contain a certification by the
property owner or agent and the preparer of the plan that the exterior lighting
depicted on the plan complies with the requirements of this chapter. Once the
plan is approved, the exterior lighting of the property shall conform to the
plan.
      (4)   Vibration. Vibration shall not be discernible at any property line
to the human sense of feeling for three minutes or more duration in any one
hour. Vibration at any time shall not produce at any time an acceleration of
more than 0.1 gravities or shall result in any combination of amplitudes and
frequencies beyond the “safe” range of Table 7 United States Bureau of Mines
Bulletin No. 442 Seismic Effects Of Quarry Blasting, on any structure. The
methods and equations of Bulletin No. 442 shall be used to compute all values
for the enforcement of this provision.
      (5)   Smoke and particulate matter. Measurement of smoke and particulate
matter shall be taken from the point of emission.
         (a)   The emission of particulate matter containing more than 5% by
weight, of particles having a particle diameter larger than 44 microns, is
prohibited.
         (b)   The rate of emission of particulate matter from all sources
within the boundaries of any lot shall not exceed a net figure of one-half
pound per acre of lot size during any one hour.
         (c)   Smoke not darker or more opaque than No. 0 on the Ringelmann
smoke chart (as published by the United States Bureau of Mines) may be emitted
except that smoke not darker or more opaque than No. 1 on the chart may be
emitted for periods not longer than four minutes in any 30 minutes. These
provisions, applicable to visible gray smoke, shall also apply to visible smoke
of a different color but with an equivalent apparent opacity.
         (d)   Dust or other types of air pollution borne by the wind from
sources such as storage areas, trash enclosures, and yards within the
boundaries of any lot shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping,
screening, paving, oiling, wetting, or other acceptable means.
      (6)   Gases.
         (a)   Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations or amounts that are noxious, toxic, or corrosive. The values
given in Table I (industrial hygiene standards - maximum allowable
concentration for eight hour day, five days per week), Table III (odor
thresholds), Table IV (concentrations of substances causing pain in the eyes)
and Table V (exposures to substances causing injury to vegetation) in the
latest revision of Chapter 5, Physiological Effect, that contains the tables,
in the Air Pollution Abatement Manual, by the Manufacturing Chemists’
Association, Inc., Washington, D.C., are hereby established as guides for the
determination of permissible concentration or amounts.
         (b)   Detailed plans for the elimination of fumes or gases may be
required before the issuance of a building permit.
      (7)   Hazard. Any operation of an industrial nature shall be carried on
with reasonable precautions against fire and explosion hazards.
      (8)   Waste.
         (a)   All sewage and industrial wastes shall be treated and disposed
of in a manner as to comply with the water quality standards applicable to the
classification assigned to the receiving waters by the city, the state, and
IDEM.
         (b)   Approval of the State Environmental Protection Agency of all
plans for waste disposal facilities shall be required before issuance of any
building permit.
(Prior Code, § 156.082) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.083 DUMPSTER SCREENING.
   Trash dumpsters and other waste/recycling containers serving multi-family or
nonresidential uses shall be screened in accordance with the following
standards.
   (A)   Dumpsters or other trash receptacles shall be screened from public
view on three sides by a solid wall at least six feet in height and on the
fourth side by a solid gate at least five feet in height.
   (B)   The wall and gate shall be architecturally compatible with other
buildings and structures on the site.
   (C)   Applications for new development shall be reviewed by the Plan
Commission.
   (D)   The gate and wall shall be maintained in good working order and shall
remain closed except when trash pick-ups occur.
   (E)   No dumpsters or other trash enclosures shall be located within a
parking structure.
(Ord. 21-0071, passed 10-15-2021) Penalty, see §
156.999
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 156.095 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises in an R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District shall be
used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   One-family dwellings;
   (B)   Churches or similar places of worship, including parish house and
convent;
   (C)   Nursery schools;
   (D)   Public elementary schools, high schools, and institutions for higher
education;
   (E)   Private elementary or parochial schools and private institutions for
higher education; provided, that site areas corresponding to public school
requirements are met;
   (F)   Public parks and playgrounds and other municipal recreation uses;
   (G)   Public libraries;
   (H)   Fences; and
   (I)   (1)   Customary accessory uses and buildings; provided, that the uses
are incidental to the principal use and do not include any activity commonly
conducted for gain.
      (2)   Any accessory building that is not part of the principal building
shall not project beyond the average front yard line as defined in §
156.097 and no accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.
(Prior Code, § 156.095) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.096 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in an R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District shall exceed two and
one-half stories or 35 feet in height as provided in §
156.076.
(Prior Code, § 156.096) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.097 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following shall apply in R-1 Single-Family Dwelling Districts.
   (A)   Intensity of use. Every lot shall have an area of not less than 6,000
square feet and lot width of not less than 50 feet; except, that if a lot has
less area than herein required and was of record at the time of the effective
date of this subchapter, that lot may be used for any of the uses permitted by
this section and §§
156.095 and
156.096 inclusive.
   (B)   Front yard.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard for any of the uses permitted by §
156.095 of not less than 25 feet, unless 40% or more of the frontage on the
same side of the street between two intersecting streets is improved with
buildings that have observed a front yard line having a variation in depth of
not more than ten feet, in which case no building shall project beyond the
average front yard so established, but this regulation shall not be interpreted
to require a front yard of more than 50 feet.
      (2)   Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
   (C)   Side yard.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, there shall be a side yard having a
width of not less than five feet on each side of the building for any of the
uses permitted by §
156.095.
      (2)   Wherever a lot of record existing at the time of the effective date
of this subchapter has a width of 40 feet or less, the side yard on each side
of a building may be reduced to a width of not less than 10% of the width of
the lot, but in no instance shall there be a side yard of less than three feet.
      (3)   On a corner lot, the side yard on the street side of the lot shall
not be less than eight feet in width; except, that the buildable width of the
lot shall not be reduced to less than 26 feet.
   (D)   Rear yard. Except as otherwise provided, there shall be a rear yard
for any of the uses permitted by §
156.095 having a depth of not less than 30 feet unless the lot has a depth of
less than 100 feet, in which event the depth of the rear yard shall not be less
than 20% of the depth of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 156.097) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.098 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Any construction, remodeling, and/or renovation which expands, enlarges, or
adds on to an existing structure or makes a material change to the facade
thereof, the cost of which exceeds an amount as set by the city from time to
time; and is undertaken within this zoning classification shall require the
prior submission and approval of a development plan, as provided for in §
156.010.
(Ord. 11-0007, passed 8-8-2011)
R-1A SINGLE-FAMILY OR SEMI-DETACHED DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 156.110 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises in an R- la Single-Family or Semi-Detached Dwelling
District shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-1 Single-Family District;
   (B)   Semi-detached dwelling; and
   (C)   Customary home occupation, as defined by §
156.003.
(Prior Code, § 156.110) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.111 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in an R-1a Single-Family or Semi-Detached Dwelling District
shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height, except as provided
in §
156.076.
(Prior Code, § 156.111) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.112 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following shall apply in R- 1a Single-Family or Semi-Detached Dwelling
Districts.
   (A)   Intensity of use. Every lot shall have an area of not less than 4,500
square feet per dwelling unit and to width of not less than 37.5 feet for a
single-family dwelling or for each unit of a semi-detached dwelling; except,
that if a contiguous parcel in any single ownership of record at the effective
date of this subchapter has less than 4,500 square feet or less width than 37.5
feet, that parcel may be used for a single-family dwelling only.
   (B)   Front, side, and rear yards. Each lot shall have front, side, and rear
yards not less than those specified for R-1 Districts.
(Prior Code, § 156.112) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.113 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Any construction, remodeling, and/or renovation which expands, enlarges, or
adds-on to an existing structure or makes a material change to the facade
thereof, the cost of which exceeds an amount as set by the city from time to
time; and is undertaken within this zoning classification shall require the
prior submission and approval of a development plan, as provided for in §
156.010
(Ord. 11-0007, passed 8-8-2011)
R-2 TWO-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
§ 156.125 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises in an R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use and accessory use permitted in the R-1 Single-Family District
and the R-1a Single-Family or Semi-Detached Dwelling District; and
   (B)   Two-family dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 156.125) (Ord. 11-0009, passed - -2011) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.126 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in any R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District shall exceed two and
one-half stories or 35 feet in height, except as provided in §
156.076.
(Prior Code, § 156.126) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.127 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following shall apply in R-2 Two-Family Dwelling Districts.
   (A)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   A lot on which there is erected a single-family dwelling shall
contain an area of not less than 4,500 square feet and a lot width of not less
than 37 and one-half feet.
      (2)   A lot on which there is erected a semi-detached dwelling or a two-
family dwelling shall contain an area of not less than 2,250 square feet per
dwelling unit and a lot width of not less than 37 and one-half feet.
      (3)   If a contiguous parcel in any single ownership of record at the
time of the effective date of this subchapter has less than 4,500 square feet
or less width than 37 and one-half feet, that parcel may be used for a single-
family dwelling only.
   (B)   Front, side, and rear yards. Each lot shall have front, side, and rear
yards not less than those specified for R-1 Districts.
(Prior Code, § 156.127) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.128 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Any construction, remodeling, and/or renovation which expands, enlarges, or
adds-on to an existing structure or makes a material change to the facade
thereof, the cost of which exceeds an amount as set by the city from time to
time; and is undertaken within this zoning classification shall require the
prior submission and approval of a development plan, as provided for in §
156.010
(Ord. 11-0007, passed 8-8-2011)
R-3 MULTIPLE-DWELLING AND/OR TWO-STORY ROW HOUSE DISTRICT
§ 156.140 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises in an R-3 Multiple- Dwelling and/or Two-story Row
House District shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use and accessory use permitted in the R-1 Single-Family District,
R-1a Single-Family or Semi-Detached Dwelling District and the R-2 Two-Family
District;
   (B)   Two-story row houses;
   (C)   Two-story multiple-dwelling; and
   (D)   Group dwellings.
(Prior Code, § 156.140) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.141 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in an R-3 Multiple-Dwelling and/or Two-Story Row House District
shall exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height, except as provided
in §
156.076.
(Prior Code, § 156.141) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.142 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following shall apply in R-3 Multiple-Dwelling and/or Two-Story Row
House Districts.
   (A)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   A lot on which there is erected a single-family dwelling shall
contain an area of not less than four square feet and a lot width of not less
than 35 feet.
      (2)   A lot on which there is erected a two-family dwelling or semi-
detached dwelling shall contain an area of not less than 2,000 feet per
dwelling unit and a lot width of not less than 35 feet.
      (3)   A lot on which there is erected a two- story row house, two-story
multiple-dwelling, or group dwellings shall contain an area of not less than
1,500 square feet per dwelling unit.
      (4)   There shall be no exceptions to the standards in divisions (A)(1)
through (3) above except where a contiguous parcel in any single ownership of
record on the effective date of this chapter has less than 4,000 square feet or
a width of less than 35 feet that parcel may be used for single-family dwelling
purposes only.
   (B)   Front yard. The front yard regulations are the same as those in the R-
1 Single-Family District except on lots with less than 100 feet depth where
two-story row house dwellings are erected perpendicular to the front lot line,
in which case the front yard may be decreased to 20% of the lot depth but in no
case shall the front yard be less than 20 feet.
   (C)   Side yard. The side yard regulations for single-family and two-family
dwellings are the same as those in the R-1 Single-Family Dwelling District.
      (1)   There shall be a side yard which shall have a width of not less
than ten feet on each side of a two-story multiple-dwelling or a two-story row
house dwelling.
      (2)   Where a lot is used for group dwellings every building or part
thereof shall be located not less than ten feet from either side lot line.
   (D)   Rear yard. The rear yard regulations are the same as those in the R-
1 Single-Family Dwelling District.
(Prior Code, § 156.142) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.143 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Any construction, remodeling, and/or renovation which expands, enlarges, or
adds on to an existing structure or makes a material change to the facade
thereof, the cost of which exceeds an amount as set by the city from time to
time; and is undertaken within this zoning classification shall require the
prior submission and approval of a development plan, as provided for in §
156.010
(Ord. 11-0007, passed 8-8-2011)
R-4 MULTIPLE-DWELLING, THREE-STORY OR LESS DISTRICT
§ 156.155 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises in an R-4 Multiple- Dwelling, Three-Story or Less
District shall be used only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Any use permitted in the R-1 Single-Family District, R-la Single-
Family or Semi-Detached Dwelling District, R-2 Two-Family District and the R-
3 Multiple-Dwelling and/or Two-Story Row House District;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (C)   Multiple-family group dwellings;
   (D)   Hospitals and clinics, excepting animal hospitals and clinics;
   (E)   (1)   Dormitories, clubs, and lodges, excepting the clubs or lodges
the chief activity of which is a service customarily carried on as a business
or primarily for gain.
      (2)   In conjunction with a dormitory, club or lodge, a dining room may
be operated; provided, that it is incidental to the activities of the
dormitory, club or lodge and is conducted for the benefit of the residents or
members thereof only; provided further, that no sign is displayed advertising
the activity;
   (F)   Apartment hotels;
   (G)   Restaurants, drugstores, newsstands, and personal service shops
located in a hotel or apartment house and accessible to the public only through
the lobby and with no advertising or display visible from outside the building;
   (H)   Institutions of a religious, educational, eleemosynary, or
philanthropic nature; and
   (I)   Any accessory building or use customarily incident to the above uses
which is not a part of the principal building shall be located not less than 60
feet from the front lot line and not less than five feet from any side street
line.
(Prior Code, § 156.155) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.156 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in an R-4 Multiple-Dwelling, Three-Story or Less District shall
exceed three stories or 35 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 156.156) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.157 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following shall apply in R-4 Multiple-Dwelling, Three-Story or Less
Districts.
   (A)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   A lot on which there is erected a single-family dwelling shall
contain an area of not less than 4,000 square feet and a lot width of not less
than 35 feet.
      (2)   A lot on which there is erected a two-family or a semi-detached
dwelling shall contain an area of not less than 2,000 square feet per dwelling
unit, and a lot width of not less than 35 feet.
      (3)   A lot on which there is erected two- story row houses or two-story
group dwellings shall contain an area of not less than 1,500 square feet per
dwelling unit and a lot width of not less than 35 feet.
      (4)   A lot on which there is erected a three- story multiple-dwelling
structure or three-story multiple-family group dwelling structures shall
contain an area of not less than 750 square feet per dwelling and a lot width
of not less than 35 feet.
      (5)   There shall be no exceptions to the standards in divisions (A)(1)
through (4) above except where a contiguous parcel in any single ownership of
record on the effective date of this chapter has less than 4,000 square feet or
a width of less than 35 feet that parcel may be used for single-family dwelling
purposes only.
   (B)   Front yard.
      (1)   The front yard regulations for single-family, two-family, and two-
story row house dwellings shall be the same as those in the R-3 Multiple-
Dwelling District.
      (2)   A lot on which there is erected a multiple-dwelling structure or
multiple-family group dwelling structure shall have a front yard of not less
than 20 feet.   
   (C)   Side yard.
      (1)   The side yard regulations for single-family and two-family
dwellings shall be the same as those in the R-1 Single-Family District.    
      (2)   The side yard regulations for two-story row house dwellings, two-
story multiple-dwellings, and two-story group dwellings shall be the same as
those in the R-3 Multiple-Dwelling and/or Two-Story Row House District.
      (3)   A lot on which there is erected a three-story multiple-dwelling
shall have side yards of not less than 20 feet.
      (4)   Where a lot or parcel is used for three-story multiple-family group
dwellings, every building or part thereof shall be located not less than 20
feet from either side lot line.
   (D)   Rear yard.
      (1)   The rear yard regulations for single-family, two-family, two-story
row house dwellings, and two-story multiple-dwellings or group dwellings are
the same as those in the R-1 Single-Family District.
      (2)   A lot on which a three-story multiple-dwelling or three-story
multiple-family group dwellings are erected shall have a rear yard of not less
than 20 feet.
(Prior Code, § 156.157) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.158 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Any construction, remodeling, and/or renovation which expands, enlarges, or
adds-on to an existing structure or makes a material change to the facade
thereof, the cost of which exceeds an amount as set by the city from time to
time; and is undertaken within this zoning classification shall require the
prior submission and approval of a development plan, as provided for in §
156.010.
(Ord. 11-0007, passed 8-8-2011)
R-5 DWELLING FOUR-STORY OR MORE DISTRICT
§ 156.170 GENERALLY.
   Areas suitable for the location of an R-5 Multiple-Dwelling District shall
include the following:
   (A)   Residential areas in which typical existing land uses are established
and stabilized with dwellings at more than 25 families per net acre;
   (B)   Areas which are subject to redevelopment or rebuilding by reason of
advanced obsolescence of typical existing structures and are suitable for
residential use at more than 25 families per net acre by reason of proximity to
good facilities for shopping, transportation, and other community services; or
   (C)   Undeveloped or vacant areas which are suitable for residential use at
more than 25 families per net acre by reason of market demand for additional
land for high density use and proximity of good facilities for shopping,
transportation, and other community services.
(Prior Code, § 156.170) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.171 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises in an R-5 Multiple-Dwelling District shall be used
only for the following purposes:
   (A)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (B)   Apartment hotels;
   (C)   Restaurants, drugstores, newsstands, and personal service shops in a
hotel or apartment house and accessible to the public only through the lobby
and with no advertising or display visible from outside the building; and
   (D)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the above
uses.
(Prior Code, § 156.171) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.172 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in an R-5 Multiple-Dwelling Four-Story or More District shall
exceed 12 stories or 130 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 156.172) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.173 AREA REGULATIONS.
   The following shall apply in R-5 Multiple-Dwelling Four-Story or More
Districts.
   (A)   Intensity of use.
      (1)   A lot on which there is erected a special multiple-dwelling of not
less than four stories but not over 12 stories shall contain, except as
provided in division (A)(2) below, an area of not less than 400 square feet per
dwelling unit.
      (2)   Modification of the minimum lot area per dwelling unit set forth in
division (A)(1) above will be considered by the Board of Zoning Appeals for
property located in an area subject to redevelopment or rebuilding by reason of
advanced obsolescence of typical existing structures and suitable for
residential use at more than 25 families per net acre by reason of proximity to
good facilities for shopping, transportation, and other community service when:
         (a)   The dwelling units to be constructed are to be used for
relocation families or individuals to be replaced by redevelopment operations
and it is demonstrated that adequate provisions will be made for off-street
parking, refuse storage, and removal and, in the case of family housing, for
play space for children under ten years of age and laundry drying facilities
where mechanical dryers are not to be available within the structure; and
         (b)   The building site will become part of a neighborhood
redevelopment plan providing for satisfactory density and coverage when
completed.
   (B)   Front yard. A lot on which there is erected a special multiple-
dwelling of nine stories or less shall have, except as provided in division (E)
below, a front yard of not less than 20 feet.
   (C)   Side yard. A lot on which there is erected a special multiple-dwelling
shall have, except as provided in division (E) below, side yards of not less
than one foot width for each two feet of building height.
   (D)   Rear yard. A lot on which there is erected a special multiple-dwelling
shall have, except as provided in division (E) below, a rear yard of not less
than 30 feet for buildings six stories and less plus five additional feet for
each story over six stories.
   (E)   Yard modifications. Modification of the minimum yard regulations set
in divisions (B), (C), and (D) above will be considered by the Board of Zoning
Appeals for a property located in an area subject to redevelopment or
rebuilding by reason of obsolescence of typical existing structures and
suitable for residential use at more than 25 families per net acre by reason of
proximity to good facilities for shopping, transportation, and other community
services when:
      (1)   The dwelling units to be constructed are to be used for relocating
families or individuals to be replaced by redevelopment operations and it is
demonstrated that adequate provisions will be made for off-street parking,
refuse storage and removal, and, in the case of family housing, for play space
for children under ten years of age and laundry drying facilities where
mechanical dryers are not to be available in the structure; and
      (2)   The building site will become part of a neighborhood redevelopment
plan providing for satisfactory yard dimensions when completed.
(Prior Code, § 156.173) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.174 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Any construction or remodeling undertaken within this zoning classification
shall require the prior submission and approval of a development plan, as
provided for in §
156.010.
(Prior Code, § 156.174) (Ord. 0-98-0002, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
156.999
C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD RETAIL DISTRICT
§ 156.185 GENERALLY.
   The C-1 Neighborhood Retail District is designed primarily for the
convenience shopping of persons residing in the adjacent residential areas.
Retail commercial establishments, except food marts, are restricted to a
maximum floor area of 12,500 square feet each so as to limit the volume of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic in and about a local retail center to a level
consistent with its function and location.
(Prior Code, § 156.185)
§ 156.186 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Uses permitted in a C-1 Neighborhood Retail District shall be subject
to the following conditions:
      (1)   Dwelling units and lodging rooms are not permitted below the second
floor and commercial establishments are not permitted on any floor above the
ground floor;
      (2)   All commercial establishments shall be retail or service
establishments dealing directly with consumers; and
      (3)   Except for food marts, all commercial establishments shall be
restricted to a maximum gross floor area of 12,500 square feet each, exclusive
of any floor area developed to off-street parking or loading facilities.
   (B)   A building or premises in a C-1 Neighborhood Retail District shall be
used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Dwelling units and lodging rooms;
      (2)   Stores and shops for the conducting of any retail business;
      (3)   Offices, photographic studios;
      (4)   Branch office facilities designed for neighborhood banking service;
      (5)   Restaurants, tea rooms, cafés, and other places serving food or
beverage;
      (6)   Personal service shops such as barber, shoe shine, beauty parlor;
      (7)   Filling stations;
      (8)   Advertising signs and advertising structures, but only related to
the one use conducted in the building or on the immediate premises thereof; and
      (9)   Accessory buildings and accessory uses.
(Prior Code, § 156.186) (Ord. 0-00-0016, passed 6-15-2000) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.187 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in a C-1 Neighborhood Retail District shall exceed two and one-
half stories or 35 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 156.187) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.188 AREA REGULATIONS.
   No yards are required in a C-1 Neighborhood Retail District, except in §
156.080 and as follows.
   (A)   Front yard transition. Where a C-1 District abuts a residence district
along a street line, there shall be provided, for a distance of 50 feet from
the district boundary line into a C-1 District, a front yard equal to one-half
of the required front yard depth for the residence district.
   (B)   Side and rear yard transition. On every lot in a C-1 District that
abuts directly a residence district, there shall be provided a side and rear
yard of at least six feet on a lot along the line or lines where it abuts the
residence district.
   (C)   Side yard on corner lot. On a corner lot which borders on a residence
district, there shall be provided a side yard on the side street equal in depth
to the required front yard on a side street.
(Prior Code, § 156.188) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.189 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Any construction or remodeling undertaken within this zoning classification
shall require the prior submission and approval of a development plan, as
provided for in §
156.010.
(Prior Code, § 156.189) (Ord. 0-98-0002, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
156.999
C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.200 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises located in a C-2 General Commercial District shall be
used only for the following purposes; provided, that where a proposed use
requires drive-in facilities, satisfactory ingress and egress and capacity for
the use intended shall be determined to be available by the Board of Public
Safety after studies by the Traffic Department:
   (A)   Dwelling units and lodging rooms; provided, that they are not below
the second floor;
   (B)   Any use permitted in the C-1 Neighborhood Retail District; provided,
that the gross floor area restrictions set forth in the C-1 Neighborhood Retail
District shall not apply to the C-2 General Commercial District;
   (C)   Banks;
   (D)   Hotels;
   (E)   Theaters, billiard or pool parlors, bowling alleys, skating rinks, or
similar recreational uses or places of assembly;
   (F)   Private schools conducted for gain;
   (G)   Caterer;
   (H)   Undertaker;
   (I)   Telegraph office, telephone, and express office;
   (J)   Baking, confectionery, dressmaking, dyeing, laundry, printing,
tailoring, upholstering, and similar establishments and businesses of a similar
and no more objectionable character subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   All goods or products manufactured or processed shall be sold at
retail on the premises; and
      (2)   All manufacturing or processing shall be done on the premises and
not more than five persons shall be so employed at any one time; except, that
the limitation on number of employees shall not apply to dry cleaning
establishments, laundries, or bakeries.
   (K)   Automobile parking lots, used car lots, and commercial garages for
storage purposes;
   (L)   Automobile showroom, agency, and repair services; provided, that the
repair or storage portion of the building shall not be less than 20 feet from
the front of the building;
   (M)   Wholesale storage and warehouse facilities except lumber, wood, feed,
coal, salvage, or junk storage yards;
   (N)   Other uses similar in character to those enumerated above and which,
in the opinion of the Board of Appeals will not be injurious to the district;
and
   (O)   Accessory buildings and accessory uses.
(Prior Code, § 156.200) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.201 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building in a C-2 General Commercial District shall exceed six stories or
75 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 156.201) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.202 AREA REGULATIONS.
   All area regulations in a C-2 General Commercial District are the same as
those required in the C-1 Neighborhood Retail District.
(Prior Code, § 156.202) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.203 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Any construction or remodeling undertaken within this zoning classification
shall require the prior submission and approval of a development plan, as
provided for in §
156.010.
(Prior Code, § 156.203) (Ord. 0-98-0002, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
156.999
C-3 NORTH HARBOR BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 156.215 GENERAL INTENT.
   It is the intent of this new C-3 District to accommodate the retail,
service, and office uses which are characteristic of the major retail area of
the city that is the central core of the State North Harbor Central Business
District. This central core is intended to contain intensive retail business
activities. In accord with the zoning regulations, the boundaries of this C-
3 District have been defined by the City Engineer.
   (A)   C-3 North Harbor Business District. 3700, 3800, 3900 Blocks of Main
St. right-of-way to east and west alleys. Also, Broadway right-of-way to north
and south alleys bounded by Michigan Ave. to Alder St.
   (B)   C-3 North Harbor Business District Special Use 01. 3900 Block of Main
St. right-of-way to east and west alleys and Broadway right-of-way to east and
west alleys bounded by Grand Blvd. to Michigan Ave., excluding Nunez Park and
the remainder of north Broadway between Deodar St. and the Nunez Park.
   (C)   C-3 North Harbor Business District Special Use 02. Broadway right-of-
way to east and west alley, travel east to the intersection of Guthrie St.
(Honorary King St.), turn northwest, travel to intersection of Alder St. turn
south, travel to intersection of Broadway. (Boundary is from center of right-
of-way to alleys.)
   (D)   C-3 North Harbor Business District Special Use 03. Broadway right-of-
way to east and west alleys, bounded by Pulaski St. and Alder St.
   (E)   C-3 North Harbor Business District Special Use 04. Broadway right-of-
way to east and west alleys, bounded by Grand Blvd to Ivy St.
   (F)   P-1 Park District. Broadway right-of-way to north alley and Deodar St.
and Elm St. to the east and west.
(Prior Code, § 156.215) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008)
§ 156.216 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The permitted uses for each C-3 North Harbor Business District and C-
3 North Harbor Business District Special Uses 01, 02, and 03 not specifically
listed shall not be permitted unless use variance is petitioned for.
   (B)   No building, structure, or parcel of land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected, altered, or enlarged which is arranged,
intended, or designed for other than one of the following uses.
Table 6 - C-3 North Harbor Business District Permitted Uses
                  C-3    Special Special Special Special Development
Land Use Category Bus.   Use 01  Use 02  Use 03  Use 04  Requirements
                  Distr.
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use; C = Conditional Use
Table 6 - C-3 North Harbor Business District Permitted Uses
                        C-3    Special Special Special Special Development
Land Use Category       Bus.   Use 01  Use 02  Use 03  Use 04  Requirements
                        Distr.
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use; C = Conditional Use
Bank without drive-     P                                      C-3, C
through
Barbershops             P                                      C-3, C
Carryout establishments P
Antenna towers-
television(in rear of   P
business)
Business incubators     P                                      C-3, C
Civil buildings         P
Clinical massage with   P
state license
Clubs/lodges
Coffee shops            P
Commercial studios
Community centers       P                                      C-3, C
Dry cleaners            P                                      C-3, C
Eating/drinking         P                                      C-3
establishments
Farmers market          P                                      C-3, C
General retail          P
Grocery stores (min
10,000 sq. ft. max:                            P               C-3, S
17,000 sq. ft.)
Gymnasium               P
Health spa without      P
lodging
Health club             P
Home healthcare         P                                      C-3, C
services
Indoor theaters (no     P                                      C-3, C
adult entertainment)
Internet cafés         P
Music school            P
Parking garages         P                                      C-3, C
(principle use)
Photography studio      P                                      C-3, C
Public/private utility  P
facilities
Public plaza (principle P                                      C-3, C
use)
Radio and television    P
stations/studios
Residential units at           P                       P       C-3, S
all levels
Second level or above:  P                                      C-3, S
residential units
Second level or above:  P                                      C-3, C
medical building
Second level or above:
office/professional     P                                      C-3, C
building
Senior community        P      P                               C-3, C
centers
Senior dwelling units   P      P                               C-3, C
Shoe repair shops       P                                      C-3, C
Tailor shops            P                                      C-3, C
Training studios        P
Notes to table: Other uses which are of the same general character as the
above permitted uses, as determined by the zoning administrator, but
specifically prohibiting those uses which are first permitted in the C-
1 Neighborhood Retail District and C-2 General Commercial District
 
   (A)   Civil buildings;
   (B)   Commercial studios;
   (C)   Residential units on the upper floors of commercial buildings;
   (D)   Residential units on the first floor in designated blocks, per the
following design requirements:
      (1)   A minimum of two stories;
      (2)   A building frontage set at ten feet from the sidewalk. All
residential structures shall conform to the area, lot width, yard, height, and
bulk regulations of the zoning district in which the structure is located, or
for those uses which are not allowed in that zoning;
      (3)   An entry level of a minimum height of five feet zero inches above
finish grade; and
      (4)   A minimum of 65% masonry on all exposed facades.
   (E)   Eating and drinking establishments, including carryout establishments
and coffee shops;
   (F)   General retail;
   (G)   Health spa without lodging accommodation/ clinical massage
establishments. All massages must be performed by an individual with a State
Board of Professional Regulations License for a massage therapist;
   (H)   Internet cafés;
   (I)   Community grocery stores (10,000 square feet minimum and 17,000 square
feet maximum);
   (J)   Offices including business or professional and medical or dental,
second floor or above;
   (K)   Photography studios, including the developing of film and pictures
when conducted as part of the retail business on the premises. The development
and sale of pornographic material is prohibited in the C-3 District;
   (L)   Services, including, but not limited to, barbershops, beauty shops/
salons, dry cleaning, shoe repair, tailor shops, banks, and financial
institutions without drive-through facilities, and similar stores or shops
which sell services on site; excluding business related services which have a
primary business office component;
   (M)   Home healthcare services;
   (N)   Theaters–indoor. Adult entertainment theaters are prohibited in the C-
3 District;
   (O)   Business incubators; and
   (P)   Other uses which are of the same general character as the above
permitted uses, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, but specifically
prohibiting those uses which are first permitted in the C-1 Neighborhood Retail
District and C-2 General Commercial District.
(Prior Code, § 156.216) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.217 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following conditional uses may be permitted in specific situations in
accordance with the procedures outlined below as conditional uses and
Chapter 55 and
Chapter 91 through
Chapter 94 of the of the municipal code.
   (A)   Community centers;
   (B)   Cultural institutions;
   (C)   Farmers’ markets;
   (D)   Public plazas and parking garages as a principal use;
   (E)   Health clubs/gymnasiums, music, and dance schools;
   (F)   Public and private utility facilities;
   (G)   Antenna towers for television and radio broadcast only in accordance
with tower specifications and uses stated in §§
156.350 through
156.354. Antenna towers must be placed in rear of business;
   (H)   Radio and television stations and studios;
   (I)   Clubs, lodges. An application for these conditional uses shall be
processed in accordance with the requirements of §
156.218 of this subchapter;
   (J)   Religious buildings constructed prior to January 1, 2008; and
   (K)   Training studios.
(Prior Code, § 156.217) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.218 CONDITIONAL USE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Authority. The development and execution of this subchapter is based
upon the division of the city into zoning districts within which districts the
use of buildings, structures, and land, and the bulk and location of buildings
and structures in relation to the land are substantially uniform. It is
recognized, however, that there are certain uses which, because of their unique
characteristics, cannot be properly classified in any particular district or
districts, without consideration, in each case, of the impact of those uses
upon adjacent land and of the public need for the particular use in the
particular location. Upon receiving the finding of the City Board of Zoning
Appeals (BZA), the Plan Commission shall evaluate the BZA’s findings and
recommendation for the preparation of a report to the City Council. The City
Council, after receiving a report from the Plan Commission, containing its
findings and recommendations, may allow a conditional use and any variance
requested in connection therewith in a particular zoning district or districts.
   (B)   Standards for conditional uses. The Commission shall not recommend nor
the City Council grant a conditional use in a particular zoning district or
districts unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it
in each specific case that:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the conditional use
will not be detrimental to, or endanger the public health, safety, and general
welfare;
      (2)    The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate area for the purposes already permitted, nor
substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood; and
      (3)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of the adjacent property for uses
permitted in the District.
   (C)   Procedures for and effective period of applications for conditional
uses.
      (1)   An application for a conditional use shall be processed in
accordance with the provisions of division (D) below.
      (2)   An application for a conditional use shall be valid for a period of
two years from the date on which the application is filed with the Department
of Redevelopment.
      (3)   Any application for a conditional use which is not processed
completely in accordance with city ordinances and regulations, including the
preparation and approval of required ordinances, within the two-year period,
shall automatically lapse and become null and void without further action by
the city.
      (4)   The Department of Community Development shall send written notice
to the last known property owner of record at least 30 days before any
application for a conditional use shall lapse.
      (5)   Upon the applicant’s request, the City Council may grant a one-year
extension to the application period.
      (6)   After an application for a conditional use has lapsed, all fees
paid by the applicant shall be forfeited, and any subsequent application for a
conditional use shall be accompanied by the fees required by this code.
   (D)   Initiation of conditional use. A conditional use may be proposed by a
person being the owner, lessee, or contract purchaser of the subject property.
      (1)   The following conditions shall be required.
      (2)   Except as provided in this division, offices, training studios,
health spas (established after July 1, 2008), and health clubs/gymnasiums shall
not be permitted below the second floor of any building or structure.
         (a)   Office uses and health spas (established after July 1, 2008)
shall be permitted in single-story buildings adjoining the C-3 North Harbor
Business District, less than 3,000 square feet, which are set back at least 12
feet from the right-of-way.
         (b)   Office uses, training studios, health spas (established after
July 1, 2008), and health clubs/gymnasiums will not be continued where a
building is remodeled in a manner that does not conform to the requirements of
this division.
         (c)   If granted the conditional use, training studios and health
clubs/gymnasiums shall be permitted in single-story buildings adjoining the C-
3 North Harbor Business District, less than 3,000 square feet, which are set
back at least 12 feet from the right-of-way.
   (E)   Generally.
      (1)   All business establishments shall be retail or service
establishments dealing directly with
consumers. All goods produced on the premises shall be sold at retail on the
premises where produced.
      (2)   All new buildings within a C-3 zoned classification shall be a
minimum of two stories and a maximum of three stories. All new building located
on a corner lot shall be a minimum of three stories and a maximum of five
stories.
      (3)   Acceptable facade wall base materials shall be pre-cast concrete.
(Prior Code, § 156.218) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.219 LOT WIDTH REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum lot width requirements in the C-3 Downtown Core District shall
be 30 feet.
   (A)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   No commercial building shall be set back more than three feet zero
inches from the sidewalk. See Figures 1, 2, 3, and 4.
      (2)   No residential building shall be set back more than 15 feet zero
inches from the property line.
      (3)   No commercial building at the corners of Main Street and Broadway
shall be setback more than three feet zero inches from the sidewalk and three
feet zero inches from the alley. See Figure 4.
   (B)   Figures.
      (1)   Figure 1.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ac512b1ffc846001018a0077a254201be4d74e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4054.png]
 
      (2)   Figure 2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ac512b1ffc846001018a0077a254201be4d74e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4056.png]
 
      (3)   Figure 3.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ac512b1ffc846001018a0077a254201be4d74e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4058.png]
 
      (4)   Figure 4.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ac512b1ffc846001018a0077a254201be4d74e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4060.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 156.219) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.220 BUILDING SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum building sizes required in the C-3 district shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Facade width minimum is 30 feet, zero inches.
      (2)   The exception to division (A)(1) above is the corner of Broadway
and Main St.
   (B)   All new structures not located at the corners of Main St. and Broadway
shall be a minimum of 1,000 square feet in net floor area. All new structures
located at the corners of Main St. and Broadway shall be a minimum of 3,375
square feet.
   (C)   Facade width minimum for buildings facing Main St. and located at the
corners of Main St. and Broadway shall be in compliance with Figure 4.
(Prior Code, § 156.220) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.221 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum yards required in the C-3 district shall be as follows.
 
                                                                                 0 feet,
Corner side yard                                                                 3 feet
                                                                                 maximum
                                                                                 0 feet,
Front yard                                                                       3 feet
                                                                                 maximum
Interior side yard                                                               None
Rear yard:
   If the rear lot line abuts property located in a business district         None
   If the rear lot line of the C-3 district coincides with a side or rear lot 12 feet
line of property that is residentially zoned and intended for residential use
 
(Prior Code, § 156.221) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.222 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS/BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The maximum floor area ratio for all buildings and structures in the
C-3 district shall be two to five.
   (B)   All new buildings within a C-3 zoned classification shall be a minimum
of two stories and a maximum of three stories. All new buildings located on a
corner lot shall be a minimum of three stories and a maximum of five stories
for a minimum distance of 60 feet from the corner.
   (C)   The building heights per floor shall be a minimum of nine feet, zero
inches high. The exterior building wall base shall be no less than 30 inches
high and shall be a form of masonry block (see Figure 10). The building facade
requirements shall be as indicated in Figure 10 as well as the requirements
stated in this subchapter. The overall building height per story shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Two story: 24 feet, zero inches minimum and 35 feet, zero inches
maximum;
      (2)   Three story: 35 feet, zero inches minimum and 46 feet, zero inches
maximum;
      (3)   Four story: 48 feet, zero inches minimum and 55 feet, zero inches
maximum; and
      (4)   Five story: 55 feet, zero inches minimum and 60 feet, zero inches
maximum.
(Prior Code, § 156.222) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008)
§ 156.223 PUBLIC DISPLAY AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The figures below indicate locations for public displays and
pedestrian rights-of-way.
   (B)   Public displays can be placed as shown.
   (C)   The four feet zero inches parkway can not be used as a means for
pedestrian traffic.
   (D)   (1)   Figure 5.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ac512b1ffc846001018a0077a254201be4d74e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4062.png]
 
      (2)   Figure 6.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ac512b1ffc846001018a0077a254201be4d74e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4064.png]
 
      (3)   Figure 7.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ac512b1ffc846001018a0077a254201be4d74e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4066.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 156.223) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.224 COMMERCIAL SIGNS.
   Commercial signs are permitted for lawfully established and maintained
businesses, including retail, services, and office locations as provided
herein. Commercial signs shall be limited to the business, product, and/or
activity available or conducted on the property. In particular, and billboards,
are expressly prohibited. Provided, these provisions shall not apply to
nonconforming uses nor to home occupations. All existing buildings’ signage and
associated lighting to conform to the city code requirements. All new signage
has to be reviewed and approved by the Planning Director prior to erection.
   (A)   Wall signs. Each commercial business is allowed to display one wall
sign per each frontage along a public roadway or expressway. Wall signs may
also be displayed adjacent to an off-street parking area provided customer
access is also available.
      (1)   For every linear foot of store frontage, ten inches, up to a
maximum of 90 square feet of signage is allowed and a minimum height of two
feet zero inches is required. See Figure 8 in division (G)(1) below.
      (2)   The area of wall sign shall be determined by enclosing the elements
of the graphic in an imaginary box(es). The sum total area of the graphic
within the box(es) is deducted from the permitted wall signage available.
      (3)   If a raceway is visible it shall match the color of the exterior of
the building.
      (4)   No signs other than those identifying the property where they are
installed or identifying the use conducted therein shall be permitted.
Advertising by material or product manufacturers and suppliers other than the
primary use of property shall not be permitted. All lighting elements such as
wires, conduits, junction boxes shall be concealed from view as much as
possible.
   (B)   Changeable copy. Changeable copy is allowed. Changeable copy cannot
exceed 50% of the surface of the sign.
   (C)   Awning signs.
      (1)   Awning signs are allowed to a maximum of 12 square feet of text
size per frontage facing a public or private roadway.
      (2)   When an awning covers multiple storefronts, each store is allowed
up to 30 square feet of copy space. See Figure 9 in division (G)(2) below.
      (3)   Canopies and awnings are limited to two colors. Logos are exempt
from this provision. Striping may only be vertical or horizontal.
      (4)   Canopies may be illuminated per §
156.226.
   (D)   Window signs. Window signs are allowed up to 25% of each window.
Temporary windows signs are exempt from permit.
   (E)   Real estate signs. Real estate signs in commercial districts are
limited to one sign not to exceed 32 square feet with a maximum height of ten
feet.
   (F)   Permits. LED and LCD signage permitted based upon Planning Committee
approval.
   (G)   Figures.   
      (1)   Figure 8.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ac512b1ffc846001018a0077a254201be4d74e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4068.png]
 
      (2)   Figure 9.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ac512b1ffc846001018a0077a254201be4d74e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4070.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 156.224) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.225 SIGNAGE LOCATION.
   (A)   Requirements. All signage shall meet the following requirements for
location unless stated otherwise in this subchapter.
      (1)   Signage shall be mounted at minimum height of nine feet zero inches
and a maximum height of 12 feet zero inches. Signage height shall be no less
than two feet zero inches and must match all awning dimensions as shown in
Figure 10 in division (B) below. Lettering for signage shall be a minimum of
six inches and a maximum of 24 inches.
      (2)   Acceptable types of building signage are as follows, no other forms
of signage or signage materials will be accepted:
      (1)   Illuminated glass signage;
      (2)   Surface mounted metal letters;
      (3)   Neon;
      (4)   LED; and
      (5)   LCD.
   (B)   Figure 10.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ac512b1ffc846001018a0077a254201be4d74e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4072.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 156.225) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.226 SIGNAGE ILLUMINATION.
   Internally or externally illuminated signs shall be permitted, per the
regulations of this chapter, provided they meet the following requirements.
   (A)   Signs shall be illuminated only by steady, stationary, shielded, or
shaded light sources directed solely at the sign, or internal to it so that the
light intensity or brightness does not create either a nuisance to adjacent
property or a traffic hazard for motorists or pedestrians.
   (B)   Individual letters or logos may be internally illuminated. All other
portions of the sign shall be opaque.
   (C)   No exposed reflective type bulb and no strobe light shall be used. All
bulbs to be metal halide.
   (D)   Illuminated signs shall produce no more than 30 foot-candles of
illumination, four feet from the sign.
   (E)   Whenever external illumination is used for a sign, the source of light
shall be located, shielded, and directed in a manner that the light source is
not visible from a public street or private residence.
   (F)   See the Appendix for awning light fixture specifications or any
approved equal.
(Prior Code, § 156.226) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.227 FENCES.
   (A)   C-3 Business District. The establishment of fences in the C-3 Downtown
Core District shall be regulated as follows.
      (1)   Acceptable open fences include, without limitation, wrought iron.
Fences may be constructed and maintained in the side yard with a setback of
three feet and in the rear yard with a setback of one foot.
      (2)   Fences shall be permitted in the required interior side yard or
rear yard; provided, that the fence does not extend nearer to a lot line
adjoining a street than the longest distance between the lot line and the
nearest wall of the principal building or structure; in the case of corner
lots, not beyond the front or street side line of the building or structure;
and does not exceed a height of three feet for front yard and ten feet for rear
yard.
      (3)   Fences must be positioned so that the finished side faces away from
the lot on which constructed.
      (4)   Walls which enclose outside storage shall be a minimum of six feet
and a maximum of ten feet in height.
   (B)   Public utility minimum standards. All fences shall be constructed and
maintained in accordance with the following Department of Public Utilities
minimum standards construction to allow for safe access to equipment.
      (1)   Five feet of clearance shall be maintained between any fence and
all sides of an electrical transformer, except the side of the transformer
which is padlocked, which shall have a ten-foot clearance.
         (a)   If it is impossible to maintain ten feet of clearance between
the padlocked side of an electrical transformer and the fence, a removable
section of fence or a gate with a padlock shall be installed.
         (b)   All padlocks shall be issued by the city.
      (2)   Five feet of clearance shall be maintained between any fence and
all sides of an electrical pedestal.
         (a)   If it is impossible to maintain five feet of clearance between
an electrical pedestal and the fence, a removable section of fence or a gate
with a padlock shall be installed.
         (b)   All padlocks shall be issued by the city.
(Prior Code, § 156.227) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.228 SPECIAL USE-01.
   The Special Use-01 design requirements for construction within the C-3 North
Harbor Business District shall be as follows.
   (A)   All new residential buildings within a C-3-zoned classification shall
have minimum first floor elevation of five feet zero inches above finish grade.
All methods of elevation such as stairs, ramps, and the like shall be concrete
or masonry clad. All elevation materials and their composition are to be
reviewed by the Plan Commission prior the approval from the BZA and the City
Council.
   (B)   All new residential buildings within a C-3-zoned classification shall
have a minimum floor to ceiling height of nine feet zero inches. The exterior
building wall base shall be no less than 30 inches high and shall be a form of
masonry block. All facade materials (above the required base material) and
their composition are to be reviewed by the Plan Commission prior the approval
from the BZA and the City Council. When a facade consists of all brick
material, the accent color of brick or masonry material shall cover no more
than 15% of total surface area. Glazing shall be provided for no less than 30%
of the total surface area. See Figure 10 in §
156.225.
   (C)   All new residential buildings within a C-3-zoned classification shall
have a minimum facade height of 20 feet zero inches and a maximum facade height
of no more than five feet zero inches above the top of the roof line of a
three-story structure.
      (1)   A minimum of two stories;
      (2)   A building frontage set at ten feet from the sidewalk. All
residential structures shall conform to the area, lot width, yard, height, and
bulk regulations of the zoning district in which the structure is located or,
for those uses which are not allowed in that zoning;
      (3)   A minimum of 65% masonry on all exposed facades; and
      (4)   For residences located in the C-3 district, the rear setback
requirement for a garage shall be a three feet zero inches minimum and 20 feet
zero inches maximum. Rear setbacks for residences shall be 23 feet zero inches.
   (D)   Special Use-01 fence requirements. The establishment of all fences in
residential districts shall be regulated as follows.
      (1)   Open fences, as described in this section, not exceeding six feet
in height may be constructed and maintained at the front or corner side yard
lot line. The minimum fence height requirement shall be four feet.
      (2)   (a)   An open fence shall be designed so that an area equal to 30%
of the width of each upright remains unobstructed.
         (b)   Acceptable open fences include, without limitation, wrought
iron.
      (3)   Fences not exceeding six feet in height may be constructed and
maintained at any point behind the corner side yard line, provided they do not
extend forward of the wall of the principal building facing the front yard.
      (4)   Fences up to six feet in height shall be permitted in the required
interior side yard or rear yard; provided, that the fence does not extend
nearer to a front lot line than the longest distance between the lot line and
the nearest wall of the principal building or structure; and the fence does not
extend nearer than ten feet to the corner side property line.
      (5)   Fences must be positioned so that the finished side faces away from
the lot on which it is constructed.
      (6)   Every fence fronting onto an existing or proposed road right-of-
way, except for corner lots, must include a gate giving access to the right-of-
way.
      (7)   (a)   In order to maintain the urban character the C-3 Downtown
Core District, no stockade fences located within the C-3 Downtown Core District
shall be permitted.
         (b)   All fencing within this district shall be wrought iron.
      (8)   A fence permit fee and approval by the City Planning Department
shall be paid for all fences to be erected in the C-3 Downtown Core District
before a fence is erected on any property within the city.
(Prior Code, § 156.228) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.229 SPECIAL USE-02.
   The Special Use-02 design requirements for construction within the C-3 North
Harbor Business District shall be as follows.
   (A)   The permitted uses and design requirements for senior housing in this
area shall be determined by the Department of Redevelopment.
   (B)   The following permitted uses are allowed:
      (1)   Senior housing;
      (2)   Parking garages;
      (3)   Multi-level residential dwellings (minimum two stories and maximum
six stories);
      (4)   Medical service businesses; and
      (5)   Commercial retail stores.
   (C)   All elevations materials and their composition are to be reviewed by
the Redevelopment Commission prior to approval from the BZA and the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 156.229) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.230 SPECIAL USE-03.
   The Special Use-03 design requirements for construction within the C-3 North
Harbor Business District shall be as follows.
   (A)   All new Special Use-03 Commercial Buildings within a C-3-zoned
classification shall have minimum square footage of 10,000 square feet and a
maximum square footage of 17,000 square feet.
   (B)   All elevation materials and their composition are to be reviewed by
Plan Commission prior the approval from the BZA and the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 156.230) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.231 SPECIAL USE-04.
   (A)   All new residential buildings within the C-3 North Harbor Business
District: Special Use-04 boundaries shall conform to the design requirements,
area, lot width, yard, height bulk regulations, and fence requirements of the
zoning district C-3 North Harbor Business District: Special Use-01 of this
subchapter.
   (B)   No new commercial buildings shall be allowed within the Special Use-04
boundaries.
   (C)   Existing commercial buildings located within the Special Use-04
boundaries shall have 24 months from the date of approval of this chapter to be
relocated within the C-3 North Harbor Business District.
(Prior Code, § 156.231) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
   M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.245 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The M-1 Light Industrial District is established as a district in
which the principal use of land is for light manufacturing and industrial uses,
and these regulations are specifically intended to prohibit the use of land in
this district for residences.
   (B)   Uses already established on the effective date of this chapter and
rendered nonconforming by the provisions thereof shall be subject to the
regulations of §
156.081.
(Prior Code, § 156.245)
§ 156.246 USE REGULATIONS.
   A building or premises in an M-1 Light Industrial District shall be used
only for the following purposes.
   (A)   No restrictions: Filling stations.
   (B)   The following uses are permitted; provided, that where they are within
100 feet of a lot in a more restricted zone they shall be conducted wholly
within a building except for off-street loading of delivery vehicles which are
incidental thereto as required in §
156.080:
      (1)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging, or treatment
of food products;
      (2)   Automobile storage, assembly, painting, upholstering, rebuilding,
reconditioning, truck repair or overhauling, tire repair or recapping;
      (3)   Blacksmith shops, manufacturing of machine tools, manufacturing of
machinery, including agricultural, electrical machinery or equipment, office or
store machines, equipment or supplies, and the like, machine shops, excluding
punch presses over 100 tons ready capacity, and drop forges;
      (4)   Foundries casting lightweight, nonferrous metals not causing
noxious fumes or odors;
      (5)   Animal hospitals or kennels;
      (6)   The compounding, processing, packing, or treatment of products such
as bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, drugs, perfumed toilet soap,
pharmaceuticals, and toiletries;
      (7)   The manufacture or repair of electric or neon signs, billboards,
excluding commercial advertising structures, light sheet metal production,
heating or ventilating ducts or equipment, cornices or edges, and the like;
      (8)   The manufacture of musical instruments, clocks, watches, toys,
novelties, and rubber or metal stamps;
      (9)   Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments, and
devices, radio and phonograph, and including the manufacture of small parts
only, such as coils, condensers, transformers, crystals, and crystal holder;
      (10)   Wholesale warehouses and storage buildings; and
      (11)   Storage yards for lumber, wood, feed, or other similar storage
related to and required by any other permitted uses.
   (C)   The following uses are permitted; provided, that the operations are
carried on completely within the building:
      (1)   Bleaching or dyeing;
      (2)   Body and fender works;
      (3)   Breweries and liquor distilleries; and
      (4)   Stone cutting.
   (D)   The following uses, not directly related to the foregoing uses, are
permitted; provided, that the operations are conducted completely within the
building or hidden from view by a fence not less than six feet in height and in
which the openings or cracks are less than 15% of the total area:
      (1)   Auto wrecking;
      (2)   Storage, sorting, collection of baling of rags, paper, metal, or
junk; and
      (3)   In general, those uses, except residential, which are not obnoxious
or offensive by reasons of emission of odor, dust, smoke, gas, or noise.
(Prior Code, § 156.246) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.247 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   A building in the M-1 Light Industrial District may be erected to any height
not in conflict with other provisions of this chapter or other city ordinances
and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 156.247) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.248 AREA REGULATIONS.
   Where any yard in an M-1 Light Industrial District adjoins a district or
districts of another classification, the highest yard requirements of the
adjoining district or districts, including transition provisions along a common
street line, shall apply. In all cases, the following shall apply.
   (A)   Front yard.
      (1)   Where a front yard abuts or adjoins a residence district at the
street line and the building is to exceed a height of six stories or 75 feet,
the minimum front yard shall be increased by a distance of at least one foot
for each three feet of building height in excess of 75 feet.
      (2)   Where a filling station is established in an M-1 District, service
driveways and outdoor dispensing equipment, lighting facilities, and not more
than one pole-supported business identification sign for each street frontage
may occupy the otherwise required front yard area; provided, that all
dispensing equipment shall be at least 15 feet from the front lot line.
   (B)   Side yards. Where a yard adjoins a residence district, ten feet
minimum each.
   (C)   Rear yard. Where a rear yard abuts or adjoins a residence district and
the building is to exceed a height of six stories of 75 feet, the minimum rear
yard shall be increased a distance of at least one foot for each three feet of
building height in excess of 75 feet.
(Prior Code, § 156.248) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.249 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Any construction or remodeling undertaken within this zoning classification
shall require the prior submission and approval of a development plan, as
provided for in §
156.010.
(Prior Code, § 156.249) (Ord. 0-98-0002, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
156.999
   M-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 156.260 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In the M-2 Heavy Industrial District, no building shall be converted,
erected, or used for stockyards or for dwelling purposes, except for use during
temporary emergency such as strikes, acts of God, or national emergencies;
provided, that dwelling quarters may be established in connection with any
industrial establishment for watchmen and caretakers employed upon the
premises.
   (B)   A building or premises may be used for any other purpose whatsoever
not in conflict with any ordinance of the city; provided, that the use and
storage of products which produce flammable or explosive vapor or gases shall
be in conformity with existing standards prescribed by the National Fire
Protection Association and the requirements of ordinances embodied in this
code; except, that for installations in petroleum refineries compliance with
Division IV of the State Rules and Regulations of the State Fire Marshal
Regulating the Use, Handling, Storage, and Sale of Flammable Liquids in the
state shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 156.260) (Ord. 0-00-0016, passed 6-15-2000) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.261 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   A building in an M-2 Heavy Industrial District may be erected to any height
not in conflict with other provisions of this chapter or other city ordinances
and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 156.261) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.262 AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard. Where all the frontage on one side of the street between
two intersecting streets is not located in an M-2 Heavy Industrial District, no
front yard shall be required. Also in an M-2 District where the district
adjoins a residential, commercial, or M-1 Light Industrial District, without
separation by a street, then the front yard requirements in the M-2 District
shall be the same as in the adjoining residential, commercial, or M-1 Light
Industrial District for either the remainder of the frontage on that street
within the same block or for a distance of not less than 500 feet measured
along the front lot line on that street within the same block from the boundary
line between the M-2 District and the adjoining residential, commercial, or M-
1 Light Industrial District, whichever is the lesser.
   (B)   Side yard. No side yards shall be required where a lot adjoins another
lot in the M-2 District classification; in all other cases, the side yard
regulations are the same as in the M-1 District.
   (C)   Rear yard. No rear yard shall be required where a lot adjoins another
lot in the M-2 District classification; in all other cases, the rear yard
regulations are the same as in the M-1 District.
   (D)   Intensity of use. No dwellings are permitted in the M-2 District,
except as determined by §
156.260.
(Prior Code, § 156.262) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.263 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Any construction or remodeling undertaken within this zoning classification
shall require the prior submission and approval of a development plan, as
provided for in §
156.010.
(Prior Code, § 156.263) (Ord. 0-98-0002, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
156.999
   P-1 PARK DISTRICT
§ 156.275 GENERALLY.
   The P-1 Park District is established as a district in which the predominant
use of land is for parks, open spaces, beaches, and outdoor recreation
facilities and is specifically intended to:
   (A)   Encourage the continued use of land for community recreation
facilities and parks; and
   (B)   Prohibit residential commercial and industrial use of land.
(Prior Code, § 156.275) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.276 USE REGULATIONS.
   The following shall apply in the P-1 Park Districts.
   (A)   All uses usually associated with park and recreational areas as
determined by the City Park Board shall be permitted.
   (B)   Only those buildings and structures associated with park and
recreational facilities, as determined by the City Park Board or other
buildings and structures for public purposes as authorized by the Board of
Zoning Appeals by §
156.027.
(Prior Code, § 156.276) Penalty, see §
156.999
GROW-OL OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICT
§ 156.290 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish an overlay zoning district
and the provisions thereof to provide for sensible and reasonable land use
standards to:
   (A)   Allow for the provision of adequate reliable public and private
telecommunications;
   (B)   Provide for and serve the needs of the city through the use of small
cell facilities for telecommunications; and
   (C)   Minimize the adverse and undesirable visual effects of said provisions
for said facilities within the city.
(Res. 02-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 17-0001, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 156.291 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT.
   The Greater Rights-of-Way Overlay Zoning District (GROW-OL) shall apply to
all public rights-of-way lying wholly or partially within the city limits
including, but not limited to: streets, avenues, alleys, and the like and as
may be amended from time to time.
(Res. 02-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 17-0001, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 156.292 LIMITATIONS OR EXCLUSIONS OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to: private streets,
private access easements, internal drives in a commercial development, railroad
rights-of-way, or interstate highways under the jurisdiction of INDOT.
   (B)   Small cell facilities for telecommunications are not permitted within
GROW-OL right-of-way having “Local” functional classification as defined in the
city’s Transportation Plan.
   (C)   In accordance with I.C. 8-1-32.3-17(a), the city may not discriminate
among communications service providers or public utilities with respect to:
      (1)   Approving applications, issuing permits, or otherwise establishing
terms and conditions for construction of wireless or wireline communications
facilities;
      (2)   Authorizing or approving tax incentives tor wireless or wireline
communications facilities; and
      (3)   Providing access to rights-of-way, infrastructure, utility poles,
river and bridge crossings, and other physical assets owned or controlled by
the city.
   (D)   Further in accordance with I.C. 8-1-32.3-17(a), the city may not
require an applicant to submit information about, and may not evaluate an
applicant’s business decisions with respect to, the applicant’s designed
service, customer demand, service quality, or desired signal strength to a
particular location.
   (E)   Plan Commission review of a development plan as provided for in T/
S 29.03 is not applicable to applications provided for in the GROW-OL.
(Res. 02-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 17-0001, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 156.293 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter and consistent with I.C. 8-1-32.3 et
seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Any communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of wireless communications
service.
   BASE STATION. A station located at a specific site that is authorized to
communicate with mobile stations. The term includes all radio transceivers,
antennas, coaxial cables, power supplies, and other electronics associated with
a station.
   COLLOCATION or CO-LOCATION. The placement or installation of wireless
facilities on existing structures that include a wireless facility or a
wireless support structure, including water towers and other buildings or
structures. The term includes the placement, replacement, or modification of
wireless facilities within an approved equipment compound.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. A written plan (minimum size 11 by 17, based on a
standard engineering or architectural scale, dimensioned in feet and inches)
that describes the proposed wireless support structure, and all equipment and
network components including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations,
power supplies, cabling, and related equipment. The PLAN shall also include
information that demonstrates that the aesthetics of the wireless support
structure is substantially similar to the street lights located nearest the
proposed location; includes the total height and width of the wireless facility
and wireless support structure, including cross-section and elevation, footing,
foundation, and wind speed details; a structural analysis indicating the
capacity for future and existing antennas, and calculations for the
foundation’s capacity. All drawings shall be sealed, signed, and dated by a
registered professional engineer, licensed in the state.
   ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION TOWER. A structure that physically supports high
voltage overhead power lines. The term does not include a utility pole.
   EQUIPMENT COMPOUND. The area that:
      (1)   Surrounds or is near the base of a wireless support structure; and
      (2)   Encloses wireless facilities.
   EXISTING STRUCTURE. Excludes a utility pole or an electrical transmission
tower.
   PERMIT AUTHORITY. The staff of the city, City Board of Public Works, and the
City Board of Zoning Appeals.
   SMALL CELL FACILITY. 
      (1)   A personal wireless service facility as defined by the Federal
Telecommunications Act of 1996, being Pub. L. No. 104-104, as in effect on July
1, 2015; or
      (2)   A wireless service facility that satisfies the following
requirements:
         (a)   Each antenna, including exposed elements, has a volume of three
cubic feet or less;
         (b)   All antennas, including exposed elements, have a total volume of
six cubic feet or less; and
         (c)   The primary equipment enclosure located with the facility has a
volume of 17 cubic feet or less.
      (3)   For purposes of division (2)(c) above, the volume of the primary
equipment enclosure does not include the following equipment that is located
outside the primary equipment enclosure:
         (a)   Electric meters;
         (b)   Concealment equipment;
         (c)   Telecommunications demarcation boxes;
         (d)   Ground-based enclosures;
         (e)   Back-up power systems;
         (f)   Grounding equipment;
         (g)   Power transfer switches; or
         (h)   Cut-off switches.
   SMALL CELL NETWORK. A collection of interrelated small cell facilities
designed to deliver wireless service.
   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION OF A WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. 
      (1)   The mounting of a wireless facility on a wireless support structure
in a manner that:
         (a)   Increases the height of the wireless support structure by the
greater of:
            1.   Ten percent of the original height of the wireless support
structure; or
            2.   Twenty feet;
         (b)   Adds an appurtenance to the wireless support structure that
protrudes horizontally from the wireless support structure more than the
greater of:
            1.   Twenty feet; or
            2.   The width of the wireless support structure at the location of
the appurtenance; or
         (c)   Increases the square footage of the equipment compound in which
the wireless facility is located by more than 2,500 square feet.
      (2)   The term SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION does not include the following:
         (a)   Increasing the height of a wireless support structure to avoid
interfering with an existing antenna;
         (b)   Increasing the diameter or area of a wireless support structure
to:
            1.   Shelter an antenna from inclement weather; or
            2.   Connect an antenna to the wireless support structure by cable.
   UTILITY PLAN. A plan (minimum size 11 by 17, based on a standard engineering
or architectural scale, dimensions shown in feet and inches) demonstrating the
location and relationship to existing utilities within the vicinity of the
proposed wireless support structure. The PLAN is includes drawings of:
      (1)   The project area showing location and all dimensions;
      (2)   The wireless support structure dimensions (size, height, and the
like);
      (3)   Vicinity map showing the location of the proposed wireless facility
and the surrounding street;
      (4)   Proximity map showing distance and dimensions from public
facilities (curb, sidewalk, street landscape area, street centerline, right-of-
way line, and the like) and adjacent buildings;
      (5)   Ground disturbance plan showing depth and dimensions of disturbance
and excavation parameters;
      (6)   Adjacent utility plan, showing location and distances of all
adjacent above ground and below ground utility facilities; and
      (7)   Documentation of coordination with utilities including a conflict
analysis and work plan which documents that there are no conflicts with
existing utilities and a restoration plan if there are conflicts with the
existing utilities.
   UTILITY POLE. 
      (1)   A structure that is:
         (a)   Owned or operated by:
            1.   A public utility;
            2.   A communications service provider;
            3.   A municipality;
            4.   An electric membership corporation; or
            5.   A rural electric cooperative;
         (b)   Designed and used to:
            1.   Carry lines, cables, or wires for telephone, cable television,
or electricity; or
            2.   Provide lighting.
      (2)   The term does not include a wireless support structure or an
electrical transmission tower.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. The set of equipment and network components necessary to
provide wireless communications service. The term does not include a wireless
support structure.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure designed to support
wireless facilities. The term does not include a utility pole or an electrical
transmission tower
(Res. 02-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 17-0001, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 156.294 PERMITS.
   (A)   An applicant that provides wireless communications service or
otherwise makes available infrastructure for wireless communications services
may apply for a permit to:
      (1)   Locate a new wireless facility or wireless support structure;
      (2)   Perform a substantial modification; or
      (3)   Collocate wireless facilities on existing structures in the GROW-OL
to the City Planner.
   (B)   An applicant shall demonstrate that the proposed wireless facility,
wireless support structure, or substantial modification thereof complies with
the requirements of the GROW-OL.
   (C)   Upon determination of a complete application and initial review by the
Zoning Administrator, the application shall be forwarded to the City Board of
Public Works and Safety for review by the City Engineering Department. The
application shall also include a utility plan. The City Engineering Department
shall submit a report determining technical compliance and whether there are
any conflicts with existing utilities, construction plans, or other applicable
regulations including, but not limited to. East Chicago Board of Public Works.
   (D)   The Board of Public Works shall make its recommendation and
determination and forward it to the City Planner with the report from the City
Engineering Department for a determination of the issuance of permits.
(Res. 02-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 17-0001, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 156.295 COLLOCATION PREFERENCE.
   (A)   At a minimum, new wireless facilities shall be a monopole constructed
to support the initial user plus the anticipated loading of one additional
user.
   (B)   The site of the initial wireless facility at any location shall be of
sufficient area to allow for the location of one additional wireless facility.
   (C)   Any proposed wireless support structure shall be designed, and
engineered structurally, electrically, and in all other respects, to
accommodate both the initial wireless facility and one additional wireless
facility support structure shall be designed to allow for future rearrangement
of cellular communication equipment and antennas upon said structure and to
accept cellular communication equipment and antennas mounted at varying
heights.
   (D)   A proposal for a new wireless support structure shall not be approved
unless the applicant submits an affidavit that the telecommunication equipment
planned for the proposed wireless support structure cannot be accommodated on
an existing or approved utility pole or electrical transmission tower or other
structure due to one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   The planned telecommunication equipment would exceed the structural
capacity of the existing or approved utility pole or electrical transmission
tower or structure as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer, and the existing or approved utility pole or electrical transmission
tower or structure cannot be reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate
the planned telecommunication equipment at a reasonable cost;
      (2)   The planned telecommunication equipment would cause interference
impacting the usability of other existing telecommunication equipment at the
site if placed on existing structures. Supportive documentation by a qualified
and licensed professional engineer indicating that the interference cannot be
prevented at a reasonable cost;
      (3)   The existing or approved utility pole or electrical transmission
tower, or buildings/structure within the search radius cannot accommodate the
planned telecommunication equipment at a height necessary to function
reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer;
      (4)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible or impossible to
locate the planned telecommunication equipment upon an existing or approved
utility pole or electrical transmission tower, building, or structure; or
      (5)   The applicant has been unable to enter a commonly reasonable lease
term with the owners of existing utility pole or electrical transmission tower,
buildings, or structures.
(Res. 02-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 17-0001, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 156.296 DEVELOPMENTAL PROVISIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   New wireless facilities and wireless support structures shall meet the
following developmental provisions and requirements.
   (A)   Overall maximum antenna and wireless support structure height: 44 feet
from grade or equal to or less than the height of existing streetlights or
traffic signals structures, whichever is greater, located on the same street
for which the wireless facility is proposed within a 600 foot radius.
   (B)   Minimum separation: No other wireless support structure shall be
located within 1,000 foot radius of any other support structure primarily used
for telecommunications.
   (C)   Support structures shall be metal or fiberglass poles. The color shall
be black or any other color and finish determined by the City Board of Public
Works that is similar to the color and finish of the streetlights within the
same block. Any antenna equipment mounted to the support structures (antenna or
other permitted equipment) shall also be matching in color to the support
structure.
   (D)   (1)   All facility equipment at a single facility, with the exception
of the antenna itself, shall be ground mounted in a cabinet having an area not
to exceed 17 cubic feet and no greater than 48 inches overall height.
      (2)   A pole mounted cabinet with dimensions not exceeding 20 inches by
20 inches by six inches including or excluding a corresponding ground mounted
cabinet not to exceed two feet by two feet by one foot may be approved as an
alternative by the Board of Public Works.
      (3)   The Board of Public may also approved minor adjustments of these
dimensions but not greater than a 25% difference as long as these adjustment do
not cause any conflict with public safety, access, or visual clearance.
   (E)   All support structures shall have a plaque identifying the structure,
the owner, and the owner’s contact information, said plaque shall not exceed
0.25 square feet. All support structures shall have all public safety/warning
signs as required by law, OSHA, State Building Code, and/or National Electrical
Code. No other signs are permitted.
   (F)   All wiring and fiber shall be concealed within the support structure
and all conduit, wiring, and fiber shall be buried between structures and/or
structures and ground mounted cabinets. All service lines (e.g. electric lines)
to the support structure shall also be buried.
   (G)   Where practical, landscaping shall be provided to mitigate the visual
impact of the ground mounted equipment.
   (H)   No wireless facility or wireless support structure may be located or
constructed in a manner that would unreasonably interfere with the use of city
property or the public right-of-way by the city, by the general public, or by
other persons authorized to use or be present in or upon the public right-of-
way. Unreasonable interference includes disruption to vehicular or pedestrian
traffic or parking on city property or within the public right-of-way,
interference with public utilities, interference with visibility along the
public right-of-way, and such other activities that would present a hazard to
public health, safety, or welfare when alternative locations or methods of
construction would result in less disruption.
   (I)   Wireless facilities shall be setback:
      (1)   Fifteen feet (4.572 m.) from the intersection of the nearest right-
of-way lines (street and/or alley);
      (2)   Fifteen feet (4.572 m.) from the intersection of a drive-way curb
cut and a right-of-way line; and
      (3)   Two feet (0.61 m.) from the back of curb to the side of the
wireless support structure facing the back of the curb.
   (J)   Wireless facilities shall comply with the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq., not impede handicapped
accessibility, and not be located in a required ADA path of travel.
   (K)   Continued operation: An applicant receiving a permit for a new
construction of a new wireless support structure; substantial modification of a
wireless support structure; or collocation of wireless facilities on an
existing structure inherently agrees that if the wireless support structure or
wireless facilities are not used for a period of six consecutive months, they
will be removed by the facilities owner at its expense. Should such owner fail
to remove the wireless support structure or wireless facilities after 30
business days from the date a notice of violation is issued by the city, the
city may remove such structure or facilities and bill the owner for the costs
of removal and cleanup of the site. The owner of any facility shall annually
file a copy of any inspections completed on such wireless support structure or
wireless facilities with the permit authority for continued operation and use
of the wireless support structure or wireless facilities.
   (L) Confidential information. All confidential information submitted by an
applicant shall be maintained to the extent authorized by I.C. 5-14-3 et seq.
(Res. 02-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 17-0001, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 156.297 NEW WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Contents of application. An application for a permit shall include the
following;
      (1)   The name, business address, and point of contact for the applicant.
      (2)   The location address, and latitude and longitude of the proposed or
affected wireless support structure or wireless facility, and identify all
small cell towers within 1,000 feet (304.8 m.) of the proposed new support
structure.
      (3)   A construction plan, as defined herein, that describes the proposed
modifications to the wireless support structure and all equipment and network
components, including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power
supplies, cabling, and related equipment.
      (4)   Evidence supporting the choice of location, including, without
limitation:
         (a)   Maps or plats showing the proposed locations) of applicant’s
proposed wireless support structure; and
         (b)   A sworn statement from the individual responsible for the choice
of location demonstrating that collocation of wireless facilities on an
existing wireless support structure was not a viable option because
collocation:
            1.   Would not result in the same wireless service functionality,
coverage, and capacity;
            2.   Is technically infeasible; or
            3.   Is an economic burden to the applicant.
   (B)   Single application. An applicant may submit one application for
multiple wireless service facilities that are located within the GROW-OL. The
permit authority may issue a single permit for all wireless support structures
and service facilities included in the application rather than individual
permits for each wireless support structure and service facility.
   (C)   Variances. If the proposed wireless support structure is not a
permitted use under an applicable zoning ordinance, the applicant shall
additionally submit evidence showing that the application complies with the
criteria for a developmental variance or variance of use from the terms of the
zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Completion. An application that contains the required information of
T/S 29.10.07 A, B, and C is considered complete.
   (E)   Procedure.
      (1)   Determination of completion/defects. Within ten business days of
receipt of an application, the permit authority shall review the application to
determine if the application is complete. If the permit authority determines
that an application is not complete, the permit authority shall notify the
applicant in writing of all defects in the application. If the applicant is not
notified in writing of all defects in the application, the application is
considered complete. An applicant that receives a written notice of
incompletion may cure the defects and resubmit the application within 30
calendar days of receiving the notice. If an applicant is unable to cure the
defects within the 30-day period, the applicant shall notify the permit
authority of the additional time the applicant requires to cure the defects.
      (2)   Decision by permit authority. Not more than 90 calendar days after
the permit authority makes an initial determination of completeness, the permit
authority shall:
         (a)   Review the application to determine if it complies with
applicable requirements of this section;
         (b)   Review the application to determine if it complies with
standards required as established by the permit authority; and
         (c)   Notify the applicant in writing whether the application is
approved or denied. However, if the applicant requested additional time to cure
defects in the application, the 90 calendar days shall be extended for a
corresponding, reasonable amount of time. If the application for the proposed
wireless support structure requires a developmental variance or variance of
use, the permit authority may have not more than 30 additional days.
(Res. 02-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 17-0001, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 156.298 SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION.
   (A)   Contents of application. An application for a permit shall include the
following:
      (1)   The name, business address, and point of contact for the applicant;
      (2)   The location address and latitude and longitude of the proposed or
affected wireless support structure or wireless facility, and identify all
small cell towers within 1,000 feet (304.8 m.) of the proposed new support
structure; and
      (3)   A construction plan, as defined herein, that describes the proposed
modifications to the wireless support structure and all equipment and network
components, including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power
supplies, cabling, and related equipment.
   (B)   Single application. An applicant may submit one application for
multiple wireless service facilities that are located within the GROW-OL. The
permit authority may issue a single permit for all wireless support structures
and service facilities included in the application rather than individual
permits for each wireless support structure and service facility.
   (C)   Variances. If the proposed wireless support structure is not a
permitted use under an applicable zoning ordinance, the applicant shall
additionally submit evidence showing that the application complies with the
criteria for a developmental variance or variance of use from the terms of the
zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   Determination of completion/defects. Within ten business days of
receipt of an application, the permit authority shall review the application to
determine if the application is complete. If the permit authority determines
that an application is not complete, the permit authority shall notify the
applicant in writing of all defects in the application. If the applicant is not
notified in writing of all defects in the application, the application is
considered complete. An applicant that receives a written notice of
incompletion may cure the defects and resubmit the application within 30
calendar days of receiving the notice. If an applicant is unable to cure the
defects within the 30-day period, the applicant shall notify the permit
authority of the additional time the applicant requires to cure the defects.
      (2)   Decision by permit authority. Not more than 90 calendar days after
the permit authority makes an initial determination of completeness, the permit
authority shall:
         (a)   Review the application to determine if it complies with
applicable requirements of this section;
         (b)   Review the application to determine if it complies with
standards required as established by the permit authority; and
         (c)   1.   Notify the applicant in writing whether the application is
approved or denied. However, if the applicant requested additional time to cure
defects in the application, the 90 calendar days shall be extended for a
corresponding, reasonable amount of time.
            2.   If the application for the proposed wireless support structure
requires a developmental variance or variance of use, the permit authority may
have not more than 30 additional days,
(Res. 02-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 17-0001, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 156.299 COLLOCATION.
   (A)   Contents of application. An application for a permit shall include the
following:
      (1)   The name, business address, and point of contact for the applicant;
      (2)   The location address and latitude and longitude of the proposed or
affected wireless support structure or wireless facility, and identify all
small cell towers within 1,000 feet (304.8 m.) of the proposed new support
structure; and
      (3)   Evidence of conformance with applicable building and improvement
location permit requirements, including, but not limited to, the height and/or
size of new cabinet, height of wireless support structure, and vision
clearance, and the like for public safety reasons.
   (B)   Single application. An applicant may submit one application to
collocate multiple wireless service facilities that are located within the
GROW-OL. The permit authority shall issue a single permit or all wireless
service facilities included in the application rather than individual permits
for each wireless service facility.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   Determination of completion/defects. 
         (a)   Within ten business days of receipt of an application, the
permit authority shall review an application to determine if the application is
complete. If the permit authority determines that an application is not
complete, the permit authority shall notify the applicant in writing of all
defects in the application. If the permit authority does not notify an
applicant in writing of all defects in the application, the application is
considered complete.
         (b)   An applicant that receives a written notice of incompletion may
cure the defects and resubmit the application within 15 calendar days of
receiving the notice. If an applicant is unable to cure the defects within the
15-day period, the applicant shall notify the permit authority of the
additional time the applicant requires to cure the defects.
      (2)   Decision by permit authority. Not more than 45 calendar days after
the permit authority makes an initial determination of completeness, the permit
authority shall:
         (a)   Review the application to determine if it complies with the
building code requirements or applicable requirements of this section;
         (b)   Review the application to determine if it complies with
standards required as established by the permit authority; and
         (c)   Notify the applicant in writing whether the application is
approved or denied.
      (3)   Additional time. If the applicant requested additional time to cure
defects in the application, the 45-day period shall be extended for a
corresponding amount of time.
(Res. 02-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 17-0001, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 156.300 WRITTEN DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   In a written determination issued under sections T/
S 29.10.08,29.10.09, and 29.10.10, the permit authority shall state clearly the
basis for the decision to approve or deny an application.
   (B)   If the permit authority denies an application, the written notice must
include substantial evidence in support of the denial.
   (C)   A notice is considered written if it is included in the minutes of a
public meeting of the permit authority.
   (D)   If a permit authority fails to act on an application within the
applicable deadline as proscribed in T/S 29.10.08,29.10.09, or 29.10.10, the
application is considered approved,
(Res. 02-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 17-0001, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 156.301 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All antennas, telecommunication towers, accessory structures, and any other
wiring constructed within the Plan Commission jurisdiction shall comply with
the following requirements:
   (A)   All applicable provisions of this Zoning Ordinance and the Building
Code of the state, as amended, and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
when applicable.
   (B)   All wireless facilities and support structures shall be certified by a
qualified and licensed professional engineer to conform to the latest
structural standards and wind loading requirements of the Uniform Building
Code, as amended, and the Electronics Industry Association.
   (C)   All wireless facilities and support structures shall be designed to
conform to accepted electrical engineering methods and practices and to comply
with the provisions of the National Electrical Code, as amended.
   (D)   All wireless facilities and support structures shall be constructed to
conform to the requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA).
   (E)   All wireless facilities and support structures shall be designed and
constructed to all applicable standards of the American National Standards
Institute (ANSI) manual, as amended.
(Res. 02-2017, passed 1-17-2017; Ord. 17-0001, passed 2-27-2017)
   WD-1 WATERFRONT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 156.315 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The WD-1 Waterfront Development District is established as a district in
which a wide variety of principal uses are designed to foster economic growth
and public benefit. These regulations are intended to:
   (A)   Prohibit the use of the land in this district that is counter
productive to the general intent of the district;
   (B)   Permit commercial, office, entertainment, hotel, or other visitor-
serving use, recreational and supporting uses to coexist in a single district
designed as a unit;
   (C)   Locate the district so that Lake Michigan or a majority tributary
provides one of its boundaries; and
   (D)   Initiate the establishment of this district by approval of a concept
plan that documents and identifies the intent of the district.
(Prior Code, § 156.290) (Ord. 0-96-0003, passed - -1996; Ord. 0-00-0024, passed
10-30-2000) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.316 USE REGULATIONS.
   Uses permitted in the WD-1 Waterfront Development District shall be subject
to the following conditions:
   (A)   Uniform control, either by ownership or agreement, of all uses and
activities within the district;
   (B)   An approved concept plan set which includes a site plan, engineering
plan, landscape plan, and architectural plans which depict the intent of the
proposal. The plan(s) shall be drawn at a scale as approved by the Plan
Commission, identifying the proposed uses, buildings, roadways, parking,
pedestrian circulation system, recreational facilities, common open spaces, and
landscape areas; and identifies the means by which the proposal will be
constructed and serviced;
   (C)   A written description accompanying the concept site plan outlining the
intent of the site plan, including a phasing plan if applicable;
   (D)   An estimate of construction costs for all buildings and site
improvements, with subtotals for major development features; and
   (E)   Additional information as required by the Plan Commission which may
include: concepts regarding covenants/restrictions, concepts regarding
supplemental donations and the like.
(Prior Code, § 156.291) (Ord. 0-96-0003, passed - -1996)
§ 156.317 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No specific height regulations are required, provided the proposed district
can document to the satisfaction of the Common Council that all buildings,
structures, and uses can be adequately serviced by police, fire, and other
municipal agencies so as to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
occupants.
(Prior Code, § 156.292) (Ord. 0-96-0003, passed - -1996) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.318 AREA REGULATIONS.
   No yards are required in the WD-1 Waterfront Development District, except as
noted in §§
156.078 and
156.080 and the following:
   (A)   Where the district boundary is located within 25 feet of a building,
the district shall require a 25-foot wide transitional yard along the entire
length of that district boundary line and no parking, roadways, or buildings
shall be located within the yard;
   (B)   (1)   Along with other district boundaries, a yard shall be required.
      (2)   The yard depth shall be determined by the Plan Commission and shall
incorporate landscaping indicative of the proposed use, and landscaping shall
reduce impacts on adjoining land.
(Prior Code, § 156.293) (Ord. 0-96-0003, passed - -1996) Penalty, see §
156.999
MANUFACTURED HOUSING
§ 156.330 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit fabricated on or after January 1, 1981,
in an off-site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the
building site, bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with
the Federal Manufacturing Housing Construction and Safety Standards Code or
State Pub L. No. 360, Acts of 1971, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., as
promulgated by the State Administrative Building Council.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable structure built prior to June 15, 1976, the
effective date for the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety Act of 1974,
larger than 320 square feet, and designed to be used as a year-round
residential dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 156.305) (Ord. 3328, passed - -1982)
§ 156.331 PLACEMENT.
   The establishment, location, and use of manufactured homes may be permitted
in residential zones permitting installation of site-constructed homes;
provided, that the homes shall meet the following requirements and limitations:
   (A)   The homes shall meet the appropriate exterior appearance standards
hereinafter set forth;
   (B)   The home shall receive all required permits and conform to the zoning
regulations, building codes, fire codes, and any other applicable state and
local regulations;
   (C)   Mobile homes and manufactured homes not meeting the definition of a
manufactured home as stated in §
156.330, shall not be permitted anywhere within the city; and
   (D)   The establishment, assembly, location, or use of manufactured housing
is expressly prohibited in the Marktown and Sunnyside Historic Districts.
(Prior Code, § 156.306) (Ord. 3328, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.332 STANDARDS.
   A manufactured home shall:
   (A)   Contain in excess of 950 square feet of occupied space;
   (B)   Be placed on a foundation meeting all requirements of a site-
constructed home;
   (C)   Have wheels, axles, and hitch mechanism removed;
   (D)   Meet appropriate utility connection standards;
   (E)   Be placed onto a permanent exterior perimeter retaining wall, in
accordance with approved manufactured home installation standards; and
   (F)   Have roofing and siding materials of a type customarily used on site-
constructed residences.
(Prior Code, § 156.307) (Ord. 3328, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.333 INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   Manufactured homes must be set onto a concrete slab or an excavated area
with footings, foundations, and basement walls constructed in accordance with
the terms of the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code as set by the State
Administrative Building Council. The space between the floor joists of the home
and the excavated underfloor grade shall be completely enclosed with the
permanent perimeter retaining wall. The wall shall be composed or solid
masonry, which shall extend below the frost line. The design by a registered
professional engineer or architect shall safely support those loads, as
determined by the character of the soil.
(Prior Code, § 156.308) (Ord. 3328, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.334 APPROVED SIDING MATERIALS LIST.
   The following siding materials are approved for use on manufactured housing:
   (A)   Residential horizontal lap siding;
   (B)   Residential horizontal vinyl lap siding;
   (C)   Woodsiding, subject to approval by the Director of the Division of
Inspections and Permits;
   (D)   Stucco siding; and
   (E)   Brick or stone siding.
(Prior Code, § 156.309) (Ord. 3328, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.335 APPROVED ROOFING MATERIALS LIST.
   The following roofing materials are approved for use on manufactured
housing:
   (A)   Asbestos shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
   (B)   Fiberglass shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
   (C)   Shake shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles;
   (D)   Asphalt shingles on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the shingles; and
   (E)   Tile materials on a roof pitched according to the design
specifications of the materials.
(Prior Code, § 156.310) (Ord. 3328, passed - -1982) Penalty, see §
156.999
TV EARTH STATION ANTENNAS
§ 156.350 HEIGHT AND FENCING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All TV earth station antennas used for receiving microwave
transmissions from satellites in R-1 through 5 and C-1 and 2 Districts shall
not be more than 14 feet in height.
   (B)   All TV earth station antennas installed with a single-pole type of
installation with a safety feature pressure shut-off or hand crank turning
mechanism will not need a fence.
   (C)   All TV earth station antennas with a tripod or tower grid type of
installation shall have a six-foot fence enclosing the antenna, if there is no
fence enclosing the yard in which the antenna is located.
(Prior Code, § 156.325) (Ord. 3450, passed - -1987) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.351 INSTALLATION; SETBACK CONFORMANCE.
   (A)   TV earth station antennas shall be installed only in rear yards behind
the rear structure line.
   (B)   TV earth station antennas shall conform with all city building setback
requirements.
(Prior Code, § 156.326) (Ord. 3450, passed - -1987) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.352 ROOF INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   TV earth station antennas may be installed on the flat roofs of buildings or
structures in R-4, R-5, C-1, and C-2 Districts with the permission of the
Zoning Board.
(Prior Code, § 156.327) (Ord. 3450, passed - -1987) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.353 SPECIFICATIONS AND CODE COMPLIANCE.
   TV earth station antennas shall be installed pursuant to its manufacturer’s
specifications and instructions and in compliance with Article 810 of the
National Electrical Code, 1984, published by the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA), as amended.
(Prior Code, § 156.328) (Ord. 3450, passed - -1987) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.354 PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   Applicants for TV earth station antennas shall be required to obtain a
building permit from the city and present documentation or possession of any
required license by any federal, state, or local agency prior to the issuance
of any building permit.
(Prior Code, § 156.329) (Ord. 3450, passed - -1987) Penalty, see §
156.999
VIDEO GAME ARCADES
§ 156.365 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT GAME MACHINES. Any device, whether mechanical, electrical, or
electronic, which shall be ready for play by the insertion of a coin, token, or
payment to an attendant and may be operated by the public for use as
entertainment or amusement. It shall include video games, pinball machines, and
pool tables. It does not include vending machines which do not incorporate
amusement features, nor does it include juke boxes or other musical devices.
   ARCADE. Any establishment, room, or place where four or more amusement game
machines are available to the public and/or which derives more than 50% of its
gross revenues from amusement game machines.
(Prior Code, § 156.340) (Ord. 3367, passed - -1983)
§ 156.366 AMUSEMENT GAME MACHINES AS ACCESSORY USES.
   A retail establishment located in a commercially zoned area may be allowed
to install amusement game machines in any single business as an accessory use.
The installation and use of amusement game machines as an accessory use may be
permitted provided that the following requirements and limitations are met:
   (A)   No more than three amusement game machines are allowed. More than
three machines will constitute an arcade;
   (B)   No retail establishment within 200 feet of the lot line of a school
will be permitted to install amusement game machines as an accessory use;
   (C)   No retail establishment within 200 feet of the lot line of a church
will be permitted to install amusement game machines as an accessory use; and
   (D)   All regulations of the municipal code must be met. Any retail
establishment that already has amusement game machines as an accessory use as
of the date of adoption of the ordinance codified in this subchapter shall be
permitted to maintain the machines for the duration of the license period.
However, renewal of the license will not be permitted unless all requirements
of this subchapter are met.
(Prior Code, § 156.341) (Ord. 3367, passed - -1983) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.367 AMUSEMENT ARCADE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person, organization, or company shall operate an amusement arcade
in the city without first obtaining, in addition to all other licenses and
permits required by the city code, a special use permit from the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   Any person, organization, or company that is lawfully operating an
amusement arcade as of the date of adoption of the ordinance codified in this
chapter shall be permitted to operate without a special use permit for the
duration of the license period. Thereafter, a renewal of the license will not
be permitted unless all requirements of this subchapter are met.
   (C)   No amusement arcade, whether lawfully in operation as of the adoption
of the ordinance codified in this chapter or not, shall be exempted from any of
the provisions of this section.
   (D)   No special use permit for an amusement arcade shall be granted for a
period longer than two years. The Board of Zoning Appeals may grant a special
use permit for a shorter period of time or it may impose additional conditions
to be met whenever necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and to
promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 156.342) (Ord. 3367, passed - -1983) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.368 AMUSEMENT ARCADE STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall be applied to all amusement arcades in the
city:
   (A)   Amusement arcades are expressly prohibited within 200 feet of the lot
line of a school;
   (B)   Amusement arcades are expressly prohibited within 200 feet of the lot
line of a church;
   (C)   Each amusement arcade must provide at least two restrooms (one for
males and one for females) which will be accessible to employees and customers;
   (D)   Each amusement arcade must have at least one supervisory employee, 21
years or older, on the premises throughout business hours;
   (E)   The sale, possession, consumption, and use of alcoholic beverages are
expressly prohibited at all times;
   (F)   Each amusement arcade must post at least two signs informing the
public that the sale and use of alcoholic beverages are prohibited. One sign
shall be plainly visible to persons entering therein. The other sign shall be
plainly posted within the arcade;
   (G)   Persons under the age of 18 are expressly prohibited from entering the
premises of an amusement arcade from 5:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. or when minors are
required to be in school;
   (H)   Each amusement arcade must post at least two signs informing the
public that persons under the age of 18 are prohibited from entering the
premises during school hours;
   (I)   The sale of tobacco products and smoking paraphernalia are prohibited;
   (J)   Shouting, swearing, loitering, or abusive language shall not be
permitted;
   (K)   Persons under the age of seven are prohibited from entering the
premises of an amusement arcade unless accompanied by an adult; and
   (L)   The hours of operation for each amusement arcade shall be established
by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 156.343) (Ord. 3367, passed - -1983) Penalty, see §
156.999
SIGNS
§ 156.380 INTENT.
   (A)   (1)   The intent of this subchapter is to provide adequate opportunity
for the erection of signs while reducing visual clutter and achieving an
aesthetically pleasing appearance in the city.
      (2)   In so doing, this subchapter intends to improve the visual
environment of the city, eliminate traffic hazards caused by improper signs and
ensure that information is presented safely and effectively.
   (B)   This subchapter establishes a comprehensive system for the regulation
of signs to promote the public safety, health, and welfare. It presents a set
of reasonable, non-arbitrary, and non-discriminatory standards and procedures
that are intended to facilitate the improvement and protection of the community
by prohibiting the misuse of signs.
   (C)   (1)   This subchapter furthers the greater public interest by allowing
a property owner to identify the ownership of property and the activities,
services, and products available thereon.
      (2)   The identification of property, activities, services, and products
located elsewhere is permitted to a lesser degree.
(Prior Code, § 156.355) (Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 156.381 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that includes action and/or motion, not including
flashing or changing signs.
   BANNER SIGN. A temporary sign composed of cloth, canvas, or other
lightweight material that may or may not be enclosed in a frame.
   BENCH SIGN. Any sign on or attached to any structure or device intended for
exterior public seating.
   BUSINESS SIGN. A lawfully operating enterprise or use licensed as a business
by the city.
   CHANGING SIGN. A sign, such as an electronic sign, temperature or date sign,
message center, or reader board, on which content changes at timed intervals.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A temporary sign stating the names of those persons
directly connected with the construction of a project and may include address
and telephone information.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign, the sole purpose of which is to direct the flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic, indicate entrances or exits, transmit parking
information, or convey similar information,
   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. A sign with two distinct faces of equal size, generally
back-to-back, supported on the same structure and designed so that each face is
viewed from a different direction.
   FLASHING SIGN. A sign on which illumination flashes intermittently, in whole
or in part, or which gives the perception of intermittent or flashing light by
another means.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign erected on a freestanding frame, mast, or pole and
not attached to any other structure.
   HEIGHT. As applied to a sign means the vertical distance measured from the
lowest ground level directly beneath the sign to the highest point at the top
of the sign. The ground level shall be the lowest of natural grade or finished
grade.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign, the sole purpose of which is to identify the
site or the building, use, or persons occupying the site on which the sign is
located.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign having its own immediate source of internal or
external lighting.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN. A sign incorporating information regarding governmental,
quasi-governmental, educational, charitable, or religious institutions.
   NAMEPLATE SIGN. A sign identifying only the name, address, and/or occupation
or profession of the occupant of the premises on which the sign is located.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign with content unrelated to the premises on which
the sign is located.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN. An off-premises sign.
   POLITICAL SIGN. 
      (1)   A sign designed to influence the action of voters whether for the
passage or defeat of a measure appearing on the ballot in any federal, state,
or local election. The election or defeat of a candidate for nomination or
election to any public office, or for the support of any political party, not
exceeding eight square feet in sign area. Excluded from this definition is
signage identifying a political headquarters or office of a political party or
candidate.
      (2)   Signs shall be secured by wire frame; or shall have the option of
employing faring strips for support, if wire framing is not available. No
POLITICAL SIGNS shall be attached or placed upon any abandoned building within
any zoning classification of the city. The earliest date that a POLITICAL SIGN
can be installed or placed is October 1 or April l of any year that a federal,
state, or local election is held. Any political sign shall be removed not later
than seven days following the election to which it relates. Exception: The
provisions of this section shall not apply to lawful commercial outdoor
advertising structures licensed under this subchapter.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign intended to be moved or capable of being moved,
whether or not on wheels or other special supports, including but not limited
to A-frame signs and placards.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign, other than a wall sign, suspended from or supported
by a building or wall, projecting from 12 inches to 30 inches from the building
or wall.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign intended to convey information regarding the
availability of the property on which the sign is located for sale, lease, or
rent and removed within seven days of the sale, lease, or rental of the
property.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected on or extending above the roofline or parapet of
any building or structure.
   SIGN. Any device, fixture, structure, construction, cloth, or other material
that conveys a message in pictorial, symbolic, or word form, placed for display
to the outdoor public. The term SIGN shall not include time and temperature
devices, church windows, religious symbols, noncommercial flags, barber poles,
or similar devices if there is no identification or advertising thereon.
   SIGN AREA. The entire area within a single, continuous perimeter enclosing
the extreme limits of a sign and not passing between or through any elements of
the sign. The perimeter shall include all elements and ornamentation forming an
integral part of the design of the sign. Directional signs and signs
identifying or indicating restrooms, telephones, and similar convenience areas
shall not be included in calculating SIGN AREA.
   SPECIAL EVENT SIGN. A temporary sign pertaining to events of civic,
community, philanthropic, educational, or religious organizations, which are
not conducted in connection with the operation of a commercial enterprise.
   UNLAWFUL SIGN. A sign in violation of any term of this municipal code.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached or erected against the wall of a building or
structure with the sign face parallel to and less than 12 inches from the wall
of the building or structure and not extending above the building face or
parapet.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign placed inside a window for purposes of viewing from
outside the window.
(Prior Code, § 156.356) (Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 0-03-0010,
passed 2-10-2003)
§ 156.382 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No sign shall be erected, installed, altered, or maintained in any
zoning district in the city, including public and private streets therein,
except in conformity with this subchapter. All signs shall comply with the
particular regulations of the district in which they are located.
   (B)   No sign attached to a building shall extend above the height of the
building, project more than 30 inches from the outside wall of the building nor
project in a manner as to impede movement on a public sidewalk, street, alley,
or other public way. Signs shall be maintained in an attractive and
structurally safe condition. All exterior parts shall be painted, coated, or
made of rust inhibitive material. Any supporting structure shall be free of any
bracing such as guy wires or cables and shall be designed as an architectural
feature of the building.
   (C)   No sign shall obstruct any door, fire escape, or free passage over any
public right-of-way or create a traffic hazard. Signs shall be placed with care
so as not to obscure unreasonably existing conforming signs on adjacent
properties.
   (D)   On a site on which more than one lawful use conducted, each use shall
be permitted an identification sign not larger in area than the identification
sign for uses permitted under the requirements of the zoning district in which
the site is located. However, the total site area on site shall not exceed the
total sign area for the site as permitted in the zoning district.
(Prior Code, § 156.357) (Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.383 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited:
   (A)   Roof signs;
   (B)   Signs on benches or other similar structures;
   (C)   Signs on non-working vehicles or trailers placed on the premises for
purposes of advertising;
   (D)   Signs that, by their wording, color, or location resemble or conflict
with traffic control signs or devices;
   (E)   Signs that create a safety hazard;
   (F)   Signs that obstruct any door, window, fire escape, or other emergency
exit; and
   (G)   Signs erected in the public right-of-way or on any public pole, bench,
bus shelter, or other public structure, excepting when posted by a public
officer in the performance of a public duty.
(Prior Code, § 156.358) (Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.384 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   The following signs are permitted for a period of not more than seven days
with a temporary sign permit:
   (A)   Freestanding, moveable signs;
   (B)   Balloon signs;
   (C)   Banner signs;
   (D)   Flags and pennants; and
   (E)   Special event signs.
(Prior Code, § 156.359) (Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.385 SIGNS REQUIRING A SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following signs are permitted only with a conditional use permit:
   (A)   Animated signs;
   (B)   Flashing signs;
   (C)   Signs for cinemas, theaters, auditoriums, banquet facilities, hotels,
motels, riverboats, casinos, or similar facilities; and
   (D)   Signs within the Waterfront Development District.
(Prior Code, § 156.360) (Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.386 ZONING CLASSIFICATION REGULATIONS.
   Only signs for purposes consistent with the uses or activities authorized
within the zoning district or for the particular premises may be erected or
maintained.
   (A)   Residential signs.
      (1)   Permitted residential signs.
         (a)   A sign identifying a lawful home occupation limited to a
nameplate sign not exceeding two square feet in sign area;
         (b)   A sign identifying an institutional, religious, charitable,
educational, or multi-family facility within a residential zoning district not
exceeding six square feet in sign area for the first 100 feet of street
frontage and an additional two square feet in sign area for each additional 100
feet of street frontage, not to exceed 48 square feet total sign area;
         (c)   Real estate signs; and
         (d)   Political signs.
      (2)   Conditional residential signs. Temporary signs.
   (B)   Commercial signs.
      (1)   Permitted C-1 signs.
         (a)   An identification sign for each business on site up to 16 square
feet in sign area; and
         (b)   Additional signs up to a total sign area on site of the total of
the number of businesses on site multiplied by 16 square feet, plus an
additional 16 square feet for the first 500 feet or street frontage, and an
additional two square feet in sign area for each additional 100 feet of street
frontage.
      (2)   Permitted C-2 signs.
         (a)   An identification sign for each business on site up to 32 square
feet in sign area; and
         (b)   Additional signs up to a total sign area on site of the total of
the number of businesses on site multiplied by 32 square feet, plus an
additional 32 square feet for the first 500 feet of street frontage and an
additional two square feet in sign area for each additional 100 feet of street
frontage.
      (3)   Additional signs. Signs for theaters, auditoriums, banquet
facilities, hotels, motels, casinos, or related facilities may be erected or
maintained contrary to the provisions of this subchapter only upon approval of
the site development plan by the Planning Commission with a special use permit.
   (C)   Industrial signs.
      (1)   Permitted M-1 signs.
         (a)   An identification sign for each business on site not exceeding
64 square feet in sign area;
         (b)   Additional signs up to a total sign area on site of the total of
the number of businesses on site multiplied by 64 square feet, plus an
additional 64 square feet for the first 500 feet of street frontage and an
additional four square feet for each additional 100 feet in street frontage;
and
         (c)   An off-premises sign, in conformance with the criteria set forth
herein:
            1.   Off-premises signs will only be allowed on Cline Ave. (State
Road 912) corridor and the State Toll Road (I-90) corridor;
            2.   No off-premises signs of any kind will be allowed in the
following surface street corridors:
               a.   Indianapolis Blvd.;
               b.   Chicago Ave.;
               c.   Railroad Ave.;
               d.   Kennedy Ave.;
               e.   Huish Dr.;
               f.   Euclid Ave.; and
               g.   Columbus Dr.
            3.   The maximum number of faces per sign structure shall be two,
constructed back to back. No faces shall be installed side-by-side or stacked;
            4.   The maximum sign area shall be 672 square feet per face.
Temporary extensions of copy for artistic purposes, up to 200 additional square
feet, may be approved by the City Planner for a period not to exceed 120 days;
            5.   The maximum height shall be 50 feet, measured from the
centerline of the roadway toward which the sign is faced, to the top of the
sign structure;
            6.   The minimum distance between two off-premises signs shall be
2,640 feet measured along the roadway surface in either direction. The
separation distance is measured from the center points of the sign posts. If
the sign has more than one support, then the separation distance is measured
from the center of the lineal dimension of the sign;
            7.   The minimum distance between an off-premises sign and a
platted residential district, school, park, church, or waterfront district
shall be 500 feet, measured from the base of the sign to the nearest property
line of any residential district, school, park, church, or waterfront district;
            8.   The minimum setback from the nearest property line for any
off-premises signs 50 feet. In addition, no off-premises sign shall project
over or onto the right-of-way of any roadway;
            9.   Lighting of an off-premises sign shall be designed in a manner
as to not be or become a nuisance to any residentially-zoned property in the
city; and
            10.   Any pre-application conference filed with the City Planner
for an off-premises sign (billboard) will need to include a plat of survey from
a registered surveyor to include the proposed sign location on the property,
the setback of the sign from the roadway, the legal description of the property
and key number, separation measurements from any existing off-premises signs
within 3,000 feet, and schools, churches, parks any platted residential
districts, and Waterfront Development District within 600 feet.
      (2)   Permitted M-2 signs.
         (a)   An identification sign for each business on site not to exceed
96 square feet in sign area;
         (b)   Additional signs up to a total sign area on site of the total of
the number of businesses on site multiplied by 96 square feet, plus an
additional 96 square feet for the first 500 feet of street frontage and an
additional six square feet in sign area for each additional 100 feet in street
frontage; and
         (c)   An off-premises sign, in conformance with the criteria set forth
herein:
            1.   Off-premises signs will only be allowed on Cline Ave. (State
Road 912) corridor and the State Toll Road (I-90) corridor;
            2.   No off-premises signs of any kind will be allowed in the
following surface street corridors:
               a.   Indianapolis Blvd.;
               b.   Chicago Ave.;
               c.   Railroad Ave.;
               d.   Kennedy Ave.;
               e.   Huish Dr.;
               f.   Euclid Ave.; and
               g.   Columbus Dr.
            3.   The maximum number of faces per sign structure shall be two,
constructed back to back. No faces shall be installed side-by-side or stacked;
            4.   The maximum sign area shall be 672 square feet per face.
Temporary extensions of copy for artistic purposes, up to 200 additional square
feet, may be approved by the City Planner for a period not to exceed 120 days;
            5.   The maximum height shall be 50 feet, measured from the
centerline of the roadway toward which the sign is faced, to the top of the
sign structure;
            6.   The minimum distance between two off-premises signs shall be
2,640 feet measured along the roadway surface in either direction. The
separation distance is measured from the center points of the sign posts. If
the sign has more than one support, then the separation distance is measured
from the center of the lineal dimension of the sign;
            7.   The minimum distance between an off-premises sign and a
platted residential district, school, park, church, or waterfront district
shall be 500 feet, measured from the base of the sign to the nearest property
line of any residential district, school, park, church, or waterfront district;
            8.   The minimum setback from the nearest property line for any
off-premises signs 50 feet. In addition, no off-premises sign shall project
over or onto the right-of-way of any roadway;
            9.   Lighting of an off-premises sign shall be designed in a manner
as to not be or become a nuisance to any residentially-zoned property in the
city; and
            10.   Any pre-application conference filed with the City Planner
for an off-premises sign (billboard) will need to include a plat of survey from
a registered surveyor to include the proposed sign location on the property,
the setback of the sign from the roadway, the legal description of the property
and key number, separation measurements from any existing off-premises signs
within 3,000 feet, and schools, churches, parks, any platted residential
districts and Waterfront Development District within 600 feet.
   (D)   Waterfront development signs. All signs in the Waterfront Development
District shall require site development review and a special use permit.
(Prior Code, § 156.361) (Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.387 ABANDONED SIGNS.
   The owner of property on which a sign advertising a use, facility, product,
or event that is no long sold, conducted, or available on the premises shall
remove the sign within 90 days of the discontinuance. Signs remaining after 90
days shall be considered abandoned signs and may be removed by the city, with
the cost of the removal charged to the property owner(s). In the event that the
property owner(s) fails to pay for the expense of removing any abandoned sign,
the city may place a lien on the property for the amount due.
(Prior Code, § 156.362) (Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.388 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE; EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be exempt from the requirement of a pre-
application conference:
   (A)   One identification sign, not exceeding the square footages established
pursuant to the zoning district in which the property is located, affixed to
the building;
   (B)   Directional signs;
   (C)   Properly displayed national, state, or local flags;
   (D)   Seasonal holiday decorations;
   (E)   Political signs in conformance with this subchapter;
   (F)   Real estate signs in conformance with this subchapter;
   (G)   Bulletin boards on the site of a national, state, or local public
facility, religious, charitable, or educational institution;
   (H)   Official traffic, fire, and police related signs, temporary traffic
control signs, utility location, and identification signs and markers, and any
signs required by the city or any other public authority to be erected,
installed, or maintained; and
   (I)   Notices required to be posted by law.
(Prior Code, § 156.363) (Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.389 SIGN PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Required. No person shall place, erect, install, or maintain any sign
in the city without first obtaining a sign pre-application conference pursuant
to this subchapter, unless the sign is exempt under the provisions of §
156.363.
(Prior Code, § 156.364)
   (B)   Fee. Application for a sign pre-application conference shall be made
to the City Planner on form as may be prescribed by the Department of Business
Development and Planning. Approval for signs not requiring site plan review and
conforming to the regulations of this subchapter shall be issued by the City
Planner and referred to the Building Commissioner for permits. An application
for a sign requiring development plan review shall be referred by the City
Planner to the Planning Commission for review in the same manner as other
projects requiring development plan review. An application for a sign requiring
a special use permit shall be processed in the same manner as any other
application for a special use permit.
(Prior Code, § 156.365)
(Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.390 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   After a pre-application conference and/or sign approval has been
issued by the City Planner, a permit shall be obtained before placing,
erecting, installing, or repairing any sign, using forms furnished by the
Building Commissioner pursuant to construction codes adopted by the city.
   (B)   Fees for sign permits shall be established by the Common Council of
the city from time to time. The current fee schedule, adopted contemporaneously
with the ordinance adopting this subchapter, shall be an amount as set by the
city from time to time per square foot of sign area. The sign application fee
shall accompany the sign application.
(Prior Code, § 156.366) (Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.391 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner to see that this
subchapter is enforced through the proper proceedings.
   (A)   Any sign lawfully erected prior to the effective date of this
subchapter and maintained in conformance with the requirements of this
subchapter shall be permitted to continue as a legal nonconforming sign. No
modification shall be made to a legal nonconforming sign, unless the
modification serves to make the sign more conforming to the requirements of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Any unlawfully erected or maintained sign shall be subject to removal
under the provisions of State Code and the city municipal code. The reasonable
expense of removal, including reasonable attorney fees, may be placed as a lien
on the property on which the sign was unlawfully erected or maintained.
(Prior Code, § 156.367) (Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001) Penalty, see §
156.999
FENCES
§ 156.405 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of a fence is to provide privacy, security, boundary
definition, weather conditions control (snow fencing), decoration, and safety
for the residents and property owners of the city, the general public and for
the various land uses within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   The intent of the following regulations is to provide a framework for
the protection of the residents and property owners of the city, the general
public and public and private property through the regulation of the
installation, erection, repair, construction, placement, and maintenance of
fences on property located within the city.
(Prior Code, § 156.380) (Ord. 0-02-0009, passed - -2002)
§ 156.406 DEFINITION AND CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   Definition. A FENCE shall be defined as a human-made structure
partially or completely surrounding a part of, or the whole of, a zoned lot
from within the area controlled, including a hedge or other natural growth
specifically planted as a barrier.
   (B)   Classification. A fence shall be of the following classifications:
      (1)   Wooden picket, PVI, or other similar materials (not more than 50%
open);
      (2)   Woven wire, chain link, and similar metal materials (excluding
chicken wire);
      (3)   Ornamental iron of any type;
      (4)   Wooden split rail and the like;
      (5)   Privacy fencing of solid material (90% or more solid opaque
material and taller than four foot), including PVC fencing, designed to
physically and visually enclose areas;
      (6)   Shrubbery, including hedges, trees (excluding shade trees), or
plants planted so as to provide a visual barrier of 50% or more solid;
      (7)   Masonry walls of the following materials; brick, stone, decorative
block, concrete block (in commercial and industrial zoning districts only) and/
or other similar materials; constructed on a foundation; and
      (8)   Any similar fence-type structure not specifically mentioned above,
designed to enclose all or part of a zoning lot that serves a purpose similar
to a fence excluding masonry walls.
(Prior Code, § 156.381) (Ord. 0-02-0009, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.407 LOCATION OF FENCES.
   The location of all fencing and associated bases shall adhere to all setback
and yard requirements provided in the zoning regulations and shall be within
the property line.
(Prior Code, § 156.382) (Ord. 0-02-0009, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.408 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF FENCES.
   (A)   All fences (including walls) shall be constructed of new or good used
material and in accordance with the methods of construction that conform to the
requirements of the adopted Building Code.
   (B)   All materials used in the construction of fences shall be clean,
sound, and free from decay or other defects that would seriously hamper or
impair the strength of the fence. All materials used shall be nontoxic, non-
hazardous, and not deleterious to the environment. Wood fences shall be proper
fencing materials. All fences shall be of a uniform material from the ground or
lowest level to the top of highest level of the fence. City staff shall review
all proposed materials as part of the fence permit application process.
   (C)   All fences shall be maintained in a state of good repair. Any
dilapidated, dangerous, or unsightly fences or retaining walls shall be
repaired, painted, or removed when so ordered by the Building Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 156.383) (Ord. 0-02-0009, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.409 PROHIBITED FENCES.
   (A)   Barbed wire; razor wire fences, and the like.
      (1)   No person shall place, erect, install, build, construct, add as a
repair item, use and/or maintain any fence or barrier consisting of, or made of
what is called barbed wire in residential zoning districts.
      (2)   Barbed wire is also prohibited along the line of, or in or upon a
public park, church, school, or other location intended for use by children.
      (3)   Use of barbed wire for special reasons is subject to review by city
staff for use in only commercial and industrial zoning districts.
   (B)   Electrically charged fences. No person shall place, erect, install,
build, construct, add as a repair item, use, and/or maintain an electrically
charged fence within any zoning district of the city.
   (C)   Excluded materials used to construct fences. No person shall place,
erect, install, build, construct, add as a repair item, use, and/or maintain
any fence or barrier consisting of, or made of what is commonly known as
railroad ties, blocking lumber, pallets, or similar materials. Additionally, no
metal siding, metal sheeting, or the like shall be used to construct a fence.
   (D)   Protrusion on fences. No person shall place, erect, install, build,
construct, add as a repair item, use, and/or maintain any fence or barrier with
spikes or nails or any other sharp objects imbedded on the top or sides of a
fence or barrier within any zoning district of the city.
   (E)   Fences and other obstacles causing obstruction of view. 
      (1)   No owner, occupant, or tenant of any real estate abutting any
street intersection shall permit any fence, tree, shrubbery, or obstacle at any
street intersection or within 20 feet from the intersecting right-of-way lines
of the intersection.
      (2)   No fence, tree, shrubbery, or obstacle shall obstruct or tend to
obstruct the view of any operator of a vehicle or a bicycle or a pedestrian
approaching any intersection within the city in what is known as the vision
clearance area.
(Prior Code, § 156.384) (Ord. 0-02-0009, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.410 CERTAIN FENCE ENCLOSURES REQUIRED.
   The following shall be required to be enclosed by a fence.
   (A)   Property undergoing new construction.
      (1)   Prior to the initiation of construction and upon obtaining a
required fence permit, a temporary security fence of six feet is required to be
erected with sufficient anchoring to secure the new construction site.
      (2)   The temporary security fence is to be removed after the
construction completion and prior to occupancy of the site.
   (B)   Property undergoing demolition and/or repair.
      (1)   Prior to the initiation of demolition, dismantling, removing, or
extensively repairing of a building or structure abutting a street, alley, or
sidewalk; and, upon obtaining a required fence permit, protection in the form
of a temporary security fence shall be provided for the site being affected.
Any temporary security fence installed with sufficient anchoring shall not be
less than four feet high with approved and appropriate cautionary signage,
barricades, and/or ribbon taping. The temporary security fence shall be removed
after completion of the demolition or repair.
      (2)   A minimum four-foot high temporary security fence shall also be
required for any building under 40 feet high and shall be placed within 15 feet
of, or adjacent to, a street and alley line.
         (a)   For buildings not exceeding 22 feet in height the fence shall
not be less than seven feet from the building line.
         (b)   For buildings exceeding 22 feet in height the fence shall not be
less than nine feet from the building line. The fence must fully enclose the
building from the required distance between the face of the building and the
property line, but shall not extend beyond the lot line of the property upon
which the building is located without special acknowledgment by the issued
permit.
      (3)   For buildings exceeding 40 feet in height the temporary security
fence shall not be less than six feet high and shall be located 15 feet or more
from the building line. Where the protection extends beyond the lot line of the
property upon which the building is located, a special acknowledgment shall be
noted on the issued permit.
   (C)   Storage yards.
      (1)   Every premises or enclosure (except a completely enclosed building)
used for the purpose of storing materials, including bulk storage, junkyard
materials, inoperable and/or dismantled vehicles and similar items, shall be
entirely surrounded by a privacy fence.
      (2)   The privacy fence shall be at a minimum six feet high and not
exceeding eight feet in height. The fence shall be kept in a proper state of
repair and none of the enclosed items or stored materials shall be piled higher
than the fence or visible above the top of the fence.
   (D)   Swimming pools. 
      (1)   All swimming pools shall be enclosed by means of a fence.
      (2)   The fence shall be at least six feet, and not exceeding eight feet
in height, and shall be of a type not readily climbed by children.
      (3)   The gates for the fence shall be of a self-closing and latching
type with the latch on the inside of the gate not readily accessible for public
entrance.
      (4)   If a privacy fence of at least six feet encloses the entire rear
yard of the residential unit, this provision may be waived after inspection and
approval of the residential enclosure by the City Building Commissioner’s
office.
      (5)   The approval shall be issued on forms provided by the City Building
Commissioner’s office and must be retained by the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 156.385) (Ord. 0-02-0009, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.411 PERMITTED FENCES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In residence districts, fences enclosing plots used for dwelling purposes
shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   Residential units not at an intersection (see Diagram A).
      (1)   Fences erected in front of the building line shall be aa listed in
§
156.406(B)(1), (2), (3), (4), (6), or (8) and shall not exceed four feet in
height unless approved by variance. No privacy fence may be erected in front of
the building line. Masonry pillars may be permitted as part of the permit. The
pillars for a fence shall not exceed four feet, six inches in height and each
pillar shall not exceed 18 inches in width and depth.
      (2)   Side yard fences placed behind the front building line, may be of
any type but shall not exceed a height of six feet.
      (3)   Rear yard fences may be of any type, but shall not exceed a height
of eight feet.
   (B)   Residential units at an intersection (see Diagram B).
      (1)   Corner lot properties (those having a side yard adjacent to a
street) fences erected in front of the building line shall be as listed in §
156.406(B)(1), (2), (3), (4), or (6), and shall not exceed four feet in height
unless approved by variance. No privacy fence may be erected in front of the
building line. Fence type (§
156.406(B)(6)) shrubbery, and the like, may be used on the side yard adjacent
to a street, up to a maximum height of six feet, provided the fence is located
behind the front building line. Any pillar use shall conform to the above.
      (2)   Side yard fences, on the nonadjacent street side, placed behind the
front building line to the rear building line, may be of any type but shall not
exceed a height of six feet.
      (3)   Side yard fences, on the adjacent street side, §
156.406(B)—privacy fencing may be used on the side yard adjacent to a street,
up to a maximum height of six feet, provided the fence is located behind the
front and rear building lines.
      (4)   Rear yard fences may be of any type, but shall not exceed a height
of eight feet.
   (C)   Generally. Any residential district or subdivision with a
developmental covenant restricting the use of fencing or places certain
restrictions on fencing type and height and the like, remain in force and will
be enforced by this subchapter.
   (D)   Diagrams.
      (1)   Diagram A: Interior lot, not at intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ac512b1ffc846001018a0077a254201be4d74e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4076.png]
 
      (2)   Diagram B: Corner lot at intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9ac512b1ffc846001018a0077a254201be4d74e5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4074.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 156.386) (Ord. 0-02-0009, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.412 PERMITTED FENCES IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   In commercial and industrial zones fences shall conform to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Fences erected along the front property line in commercially and
industrially zoned districts shall not exceed six feet in height and may be of
any type except §
156.406(B)(7)—masonry walls. Fences along the sides and back building lines may
be of any type and shall not exceed six feet.
   (B)   Fences erected along the front property in commercially and
industrially zoned districts that are greater than six feet, but not more than
eight feet in height, may be of any type. The fence shall be set back from the
street line a minimum of five feet and softened by landscaping material as
approved by the City Planning Department in the pre-application conference.
   (C)   Fences erected along the front property line of existing and occupied
residential unit(s) in commercially and industrially zoned districts shall not
exceed four feet in height unless approved by variance and shall be of any type
§
156.406(B)(5)—privacy fencing. The residential lot can use any other type of
fence for the sides and back of the parcel in conformance with the residential
section of this subchapter.
   (D)   (1)   Fences erected in association with used car lots or parking lots
(public or private) along the front property line (or the street frontages, if
at a corner) in commercially and industrially zoned districts shall not exceed
six feet in height and only can be of §
156.406(B)(2)—woven wire.
      (2)   A site plan showing lot ingress and egress, the placement of the
vehicles on the lot, and the type of gate system to be used must accompany any
application for the fence. The used car or parking lot can use any type of
fence for the sides and back of the parcel in conformance with this section of
this subchapter.
   (E)   Barbed wire, and the like, may be used at a height of not less than
seven feet above grade. Barbed wire, and the like, shall be placed so that it
does not project beyond the outside face of the fence. The City Planning
Department in the pre-application conference shall approve the use of barbed
wire, and/or the like, in conjunction with a fence.
(Prior Code, § 156.387) (Ord. 0-02-0009, passed - -2002)
§ 156.413 FENCE PERMIT PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Required. A fence permit pre-application conference is required to
place, erect, construct, or install any fence in the city. A person with an
existing fence needing repair in an amount as set by the city from time to time
is also required to participate in a fence permit pre-application conference.
(Prior Code, § 156.388)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   Application for a fence permit pre-application conference shall be
made to the City Planner on forms as may be prescribed by the Department of
Business Development and Planning. The person making application should submit
a plat of survey with the fence located on the survey, it will become an
attachment to the conference form.
      (2)   Approval for fences not requiring site plan review and conforming
to the regulations of this subchapter shall be issued by the City Planner and
referred to the Building Commissioner for a fence permit.
      (3)   An application for a fence requiring development plan review shall
be referred by the City Planner to the Planning Commission for review in the
same manner as other projects requiring development plan review. An application
for a fence requiring a variance or special use permit shall be processed in
the same manner as any other application for a variance or special use permit.
(Prior Code, § 156.389)
(Ord. 0-02-0009, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.414 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   A plat of survey must accompany a fence permit application as part of
the pre-application conference and any permitting submission to the Building
Department.
   (B)   A building permit must be obtained (by either the owner of the
property upon which the fence is to be constructed or erected, or by contractor
performing the work) before placing, erecting, installing, construction, or
repairing the fence, after the pre-application conference form with fence
approval has been issued by the City Planner. The permitting process shall use
forms furnished by the Building Commissioner pursuant to building/construction
codes adopted by the city.
   (C)   The Common Council of the city establishes fees for any permits from
time to time. The current fee schedule, adopted contemporaneously with the
ordinance adopting this subchapter, shall be based on the entire cost of the
fence materials plus labor costs.
   (D)   The fence building permit fee shall accompany the fence permit
application.
(Prior Code, § 156.390) (Ord. 0-02-0009, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.415 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner to see that this
subchapter is enforced through the proper proceedings, including legal action.
   (A)   (1)   Any fence lawfully erected prior to the effective date of this
subchapter and maintained in conformance with the requirements of this
subchapter shall be permitted to continue as a legal nonconforming fence.
      (2)   No modification shall be made to a legal nonconforming fence,
unless the modification serves to make the fence more conforming to the
requirements of this subchapter.
      (3)   Any modification requires the pre-application conference process,
as well as, a building permit.
   (B)   (1)   Any unlawfully erected or maintained fence shall be subject to
removal under the provisions of State Code and the city municipal code.
      (2)   The actual expense of removal, including reasonable attorney fees,
may be placed as a lien on the property on which the fence was unlawfully
erected or maintained.
   (C)   (1)   If a dispute arises between the property owner erecting the
fence and any adjacent property owners as to the location of the fence, the
Building Commissioner may require the property owner erecting the fence to
either:
         (a)   Show that the fence was erected according to the plat of survey
described in §
156.414(D); or
         (b)   Shall obtain a current land survey from a registered surveyor.
      (2)   If the parties in the dispute find that the fence has been
improperly placed/located, the owner erecting the fence shall be required to
move the fence.
(Prior Code, § 156.391) (Ord. 0-02-0009, passed - -2002) Penalty, see §
156.999
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMITTEE
§ 156.430 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to identify those structures, sites,
and neighborhoods in the city that have historic, architectural, and aesthetic
significance and to preserve and maintain them for current and future residents
by encouraging renovation, rehabilitation, and repair that is consistent with
their historic, architectural, and aesthetic character.
   (B)   Furthermore, it is the purpose of this subchapter to strengthen the
economy of the city by stabilizing and improving property values in historic
areas, and to encourage new or rehabilitated buildings and developments that
will be harmonious with existing historic structures, sites, and neighborhoods.
(Prior Code, § 156.405) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008)
§ 156.431 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. Any act or process which changes one or more of the “exterior
architectural features” of an improvement.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. A certificate authorizing plans for
alteration, construction, demolition, or removal of an improvement which has
been designated a landmark or which is located within an historic preservation
district.
   COMMISSION. 
      (1)   The Historic Sites Commission shall be an appointed body,
consisting of appointees from the following governing branches:
         (a)   Plan Commission: one appointee, (this appointee shall be an
architect or planner);
         (b)   BZA: one appointee;
         (c)   City Council: one appointee; and
         (d)   Office of the Mayor: two appointees.
      (2)   At the discretion of their respective appointing body, each
appointee shall serve a term of no less than two years. All additional
conditions affecting the Historic Sites Commission shall be determined by the
city.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any act of process whereby a new improvement is built, an
existing improvement is expanded in size or area, or a demolished improvement
is rebuilt.
   DEMOLITION. Any act or process which destroys all of an improvement.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE. The architectural style, design, general
arrangement, and components of all of the outer surfaces of an improvement, as
distinguished from the interior surfaces enclosed by the exterior services,
including, but not limited to, the kind of building materials and the type and
style of windows, doors, lights, signs, and other fixtures are pertinent to the
improvement, visible from any public street or thoroughfare. An alley shall not
be considered a public street or thoroughfare for the purposes of this
definition.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT. Any area which:
      (1)   Contains improvements which:
         (a)   Have a special character or special historic or aesthetic
interest of value;
         (b)   Represent one or more periods of styles of architecture typical
of one or more eras in the history of the city; and
         (c)   Cause the area, by reason of factors, to constitute a distinct
section of the city.
      (2)   Has been designated by the City Council as an HISTORIC PRESERVATION
DISTRICT pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, site, parking facility, fence, gate,
wall, work of art, or other object constituting a physical betterment of or
addition to real property, or any part of the betterment or addition.
   INTERIOR. The visible surfaces of the enclosed or inside portions of an
improvement.
   LANDMARK. Any improvement, which has a special historical, community, or
aesthetic interest or value as party of the development, heritage, or cultural
characteristics of the city, state of nation and which has been designated by
the City Council as a landmark pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
LANDMARKS include improvements which reflect or exemplify the cultural,
political, spiritual, economic, social, or artistic history of the city, state,
or nation, or which are identified with historic personages or with important
events in local, state, or national history, or which embody the distinguishing
characteristics of an architectural specimen, inherently valuable for a
representation of a period, style, or method of construction, or a notable work
of construction, or a notable work of a master designer or architect whose
individual genius influenced his or her era.
   ORDINARY REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE. Any work done on or replacement of any
part of an improvement for which a permit issued by the Department of Community
Development is not required by law, where the purpose and effect of the work or
replacement is to correct any deterioration or decay of or damage to the
improvement of any part thereof and to restore the same, as nearly as may be
practicable, to its condition prior to the occurrence of the deterioration,
decay, or damage.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, partnership, corporation, or other
legal entity holding legal or equitable title to real estate located within the
city, including, but not limited to, contract purchasers and all of the
beneficiaries under a land trust.
   PARTIAL DEMOLITION. Any act or process which destroys part of an improvement
in order to accommodate an addition to the improvement.
   REMOVAL. Any act or process which changes the location or position of an
improvement of or any portion of an improvement.
   TAX PARCEL. Any lot, block, tract, or other piece of real property, whether
tax exempt or not, which has been assigned a permanent real estate index
number, as shown on the record of the local real estate tax collector.
(Prior Code, § 156.406) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008)
§ 156.432 APPLICABILITY OF ZONING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Zoning classifications and permitted uses.
      (1)   All landmarks and historic preservation districts shall also be
classified in one or more of the zoning districts established by subchapter.
The zoning of any landmark shall be designated by a combination of symbols,
i.e., R-2-L, C-1-L, and the like. The zoning of any land in a historic
preservation district shall be designated by a combination of symbols, i.e., R-
2-H, R-3-H, and the like.
      (2)   For any landmark or any historic preservation district, all the
regulations of the underlying zoning district shall apply, except insofar as
the regulations are in conflict with any special regulations applicable to a
landmark or historic preservation district, and in the event of a conflict, the
regulations governing the landmark or historic preservation district shall
apply. All permitted uses or conditional uses otherwise allowable in the
underlying zoning district shall continue to be the appropriate allowable use.
   (B)   Relationship to Plan Commission. The Historic Sites Commission may, at
the request of the Plan Commission or on its own initiative, prepare a written
report to, and, in addition, may testify at any public hearing conducted by,
the Plan Commission with respect to any matter being considered by the Plan
Commission which may affect any improvement designated a landmark or any
designated historic preservation district.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   A copy of any application for a conditional use under the
provisions of this subchapter shall be forwarded by the Plan Commission to the
Historic Sites Commission, if the proposed conditional use would be within or
immediately adjacent to a historic preservation district, or if the owner of a
landmark would be entitled to notice under the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Within a reasonable time after receipt of the copy of any
application for a conditional use, the Historic Sites Commission shall review
the application to determine the effect which the proposed conditional use
would have on the landmark or historic preservation district, according to the
appropriate criteria and architectural and aesthetic consideration for the
granting of a certificate of appropriateness.
      (3)   Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of any application for a
conditional use, the Historic Sites Commission shall file with the Plan
Commission any written report and recommendations it desires to make. The
written report and recommendations, and any testimony presented by the Historic
Sites Commission at a public hearing conducted by the Plan Commission, shall be
briefly summarized in the report submitted by the Plan Commission to the City
Council. In lieu of the summary, the Plan Commission, at its discretion, may
append the Historic Sites Commission’s report and recommendations to the
written report and recommendations made by the Plan Commission to the City
Council.
   (D)   Variances; amendments to zoning provisions.
      (1)   A copy of any application for a variance from the provisions of
these zoning provisions, or street graphics ordinance, and a copy of any
proposed amendment to the map or text of the zoning provisions shall be
forwarded by the Plan Commission of the Board of Zoning Appeals to the Historic
Sites Commission, if the proposed change would be within or immediately
adjacent to a Historic Preservation District, or if the owner of a landmark
would be entitled to notice under the provisions of the zoning provisions or
this chapter.
      (2)   Within a reasonable time after receipt of the copy of any
application for a variance from the provisions of this zoning chapter or an
amendment to the map or text of this zoning chapter, the Historic Sites
Commission shall review the application to determine the effect which the
proposed variance or amendment would have on the district according to the
appropriate criteria and architectural and aesthetic considerations of the
granting of a certificate of appropriateness.
      (3)   (a)   Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of any application
for a variance of a proposed amendment, the Historic Sites Commission shall
forward any written report and recommendations it desires to make to the
Commission or Board from which the copy of the application or amendment was
received.
         (b)   The written report and recommendations, and any testimony
presented by the Historic Sites Commission as a public hearing conducted by the
Plan Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals concerning the proposed variance or
amendment, shall be briefly summarized in any reports required to be submitted
to the Historic Landmarks Foundation of the state by the Plan Commission or
Board of Zoning Appeals, as applicable.
      (c)   In lieu of the summary, the Plan Commission or Board or Zoning
Appeals, at its discretion, may append the Historic Sites Commission’s report
and recommendations to any written reports and recommendations required to be
provided to the Historic Landmarks Foundation of the state by the Plan
Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 156.407) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.433 ACQUISITIONS OF APPROPRIATE PROTECTIVE INTERESTS.
   (A)   The city may acquire, by purchase, donation, or condemnation,
appropriate protective interests in any landmark or any improvement located
within an historic preservation district within the corporate boundaries of the
city wherever and to the extent that the City Council, upon the recommendation
of the Commission, determines that the acquisition will be in the public
interest.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, an APPROPRIATE PROTECTIVE INTEREST
means any right or interest in or title to an improvement including, but not
limited to, fee title or any easement, restriction, covenant, or condition
running with the land, designated to preserve, maintain, or enhance all or part
of the existing state of improvements of historic, architectural, or aesthetic
significance, the acquisition of which is determined by the City Council to be
necessary and appropriate for the effectuation of the purposes of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 156.408) (Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 156.445 PURPOSE.
   The regulations of this chapter govern nonconformities, which are
structures, use, lots, developments, signs, fences, parking areas, and
floodway/fioodway fringe use that were lawfully established but because of the
adoption of new or amended regulations no longer comply with one or more
requirements of this Zoning Code.
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.446 INTENT.
   (A)   In older cities, such as East Chicago, many structures and uses that
were established in compliance with all regulations in effect at the time of
their establishment have been made nonconforming by zoning map changes
(rezoning) or amendments to the Zoning Code text. The regulations of this
chapter are intended to clarify the effect of such nonconforming status and
avoid confusion with illegal structures and uses (those established in
violation of zoning rules).
   (B)   The regulations are also intended to:
      (1)   Recognize the interests of landowners in continuing to use their
property for uses and activities that were lawfully established;
      (2)   Promote maintenance, reuse, and rehabilitation of existing
buildings; and
      (3)   Place reasonable limits on nonconformities that have the potential
to adversely affect surrounding properties or the community as a whole.
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.447 AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE.
   Any nonconformity that existed on the effective dates specified in Sec.
1,01.020 or any situation that becomes nonconformity upon adoption of any
amendment to this Zoning Code may be continued in accordance with the
regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.448 DETERMINATION OF NONCONFORMITY STATUS.
   The burden of proving that nonconformity exists (as opposed to a violation
of this Zoning Code) rests with the subject landowner.
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.449 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Nonconformities must be maintained to be safe and in good repair.
   (B)   Incidental repairs and normal maintenance necessary to keep
nonconformity in sound condition are permitted unless otherwise expressly
prohibited by this Zoning Code.
   (C)   If a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to the lack of
repairs and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized official to be
unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be
restored, repaired, or rebuilt after three months of such declaration except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (D)   Nothing in this title shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or
restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official.
   (E)   When the structure is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty
the structure can be restored to the condition in which it was before the
occurrence of the fire or other casualty only if the reconstruction cost does
not exceed 50% of the cost of replacement of the entire building (as stated on
the property owner’s record card located in the Township Assessor’s office).
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.450 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter but could not be built under the terms of this title
by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, setback lines,
intensity, its location on the lot or other requirements concerning the
structure, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its nonconformity to a conforming use.
   (B)   A detached residential accessory structure which becomes a
nonconforming structure due to the demolition or other removal of the primary
residential structure shall be permitted to continue. However, the failure to
construct a new primary residential structure on the same lot, tract, or
development parcel within 12 months of the removal of the primary structure
shall be construed as intent to abandon the accessory structure.
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.451 NONCONFORMING USE.
   A lawful use involving individual structures, land, or of structures and
land in combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of
this chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a conforming use or
to a use permitted in a district of greater restrictions, it shall not
thereafter be changed to a non-conforming use or a less restricted use, except
upon approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals. Provided, however, that where a
properly in an “M-l11 or “M-2" district conforms with requirements for off-
street parking through the utilization of leased land at the time of the
enactment of this chapter, the use of that property shall not be considered to
have changed from conforming to non-conforming use by virtue of the loss of the
right to the use of leased property for off-street parking purposes, until such
time or unless additional property become available, in which event off-street
parking requirements shall be met before other uses are established.
   (B)   A non-conforming use of a building or structure designed for a
conforming use shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of such
conforming building or structure nor changed except to a conforming use.
   (C)   These provisions apply in the same manner to a use which may become a
nonconforming use due to a later amendment to this subchapter.
   (D)   The non-conforming use of land for storage purposes shall be
discontinued within five years from the date of the adoption and approval of
this subchapter, and the use of land for storage purposes which becomes non-
conforming by reason of subsequent change in this code shall also be
discontinued with five years from the date of change. In addition, an
environmental remediation plan to restore the land shall be established prior
to the termination of the non-conforming use and such plan must be implemented
by the land owners or leaser of land at the termination of the non-conforming
use.
   (E)   Whenever a non-conforming use has been discontinued for a period of
one year such use shall not thereafter be established and any future use shall
be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   If no structural alterations are made to a structure or structure and
land in combination, a nonconforming use may be changed to another
nonconforming use, provided that the zoning administrator shall make specific
findings that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to
the district than the existing nonconforming use. The determination of the
zoning administrator may be referred by the applicant or the staff of the board
of zoning appeals which may make the findings and require appropriate
conditions and safeguards.
   (G)   When a nonconforming use of a structure, land, or a structure and land
in combination is discontinued or abandoned for one year, or when governmental
action impedes access to the premises, the structure, land, or structure and
land in combination shall not thereafter be used except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (H)   If a nonconforming adult use or open use of land is discontinued for
six continuous months or more, all nonconforming use rights are lost and re-
establishment of the nonconforming use is prohibited.
   (I)   When a structure containing a nonconforming use is intentionally
damaged by causes within the control of the owner, re-establishment of the
nonconforming use is prohibited.
   (J)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may authorize, by written permit, in a
residential district for a period of not more than one year from the date of
such permit, a temporary building for commercial or industrial use incidental
to the residential construction and development of such district.
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.452 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   A nonconforming lot is a tract of land lawfully established as a lot
on a plat recorded or registered, pursuant to statute, with the Recorder of
Deeds of the county and the city that does not comply with the minimum lot area
or lot width standards of the zoning district in which it is now located.
   (B)   The lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   In residential zoning districts, a nonconforming lot may not be
developed unless approved by BZA. However, if a nonconforming lot is
voluntarily increased in size and complies with applicable lot area or lot
width standards, such lot may be developed within a residential zoning
district.
      (2)   In nonresidential zoning districts, a nonconforming lot may not be
developed without approved by BZA. However, if a nonconforming lot is
voluntarily increased in size and complies with applicable lot area or lot
width standards, such lot may be developed within a nonresidential zoning
district.
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.453 NONCONFORMING DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   A nonconforming development is any aspect of a development other than
a nonconforming lot, nonconforming use or nonconforming sign that was lawfully
established, in accordance with zoning regulations in effect at the time of its
establishment but that no longer complies with one or more standards of this
Zoning Code. Common examples of nonconforming developments are buildings that
do not comply with current setback or height standards, off-street parking or
loading areas that contain fewer spaces than required by current standards, or
sites that do not comply with current landscaping standards. Nonconforming
developments may remain, subject to the regulations of this section.
   (B)   Unless otherwise expressly stated in this Zoning Code, nonconforming
developments may be altered or enlarged as long as the alteration or
enlargement does not increase the extent of nonconformity. A building addition
to an existing nonconforming development that projects further into a required
setback or further above the permitted maximum height is an example of
increasing the extent of nonconformity.
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.454 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   A nonconforming sign is a sign that was lawfully established prior to the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, the lawful sign may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   Nonconforming signs must be maintained in good repair, and must comply
with all other requirements of this Zoning Code.
   (B)   Nonconforming signs shall be reviewed by zoning district and
determinations made based on the provisions of §§
156.380 through
156.391.
   (C)   Change of copy or the substitution of panels or faces on nonconforming
signs is permitted without affecting the legal status of a sign as a
nonconforming sign (subject to requirements for building and electrical
permits). No other alterations are allowed, except for routine maintenance and
repair.
   (D)   Any nonconforming on-premises sign that is located on property that
has failed to maintain a valid business license or that becomes vacant and
unoccupied for a period of three months, or any nonconforming on-premises sign
that pertains to a time, event, or purpose that is no longer imminent or
pending will be deemed to have been abandoned.
   (E)   Any nonconforming off-premises sign that is not used or for which a
valid permit or license does not exist for a continuous period of three months
will be deemed to have been abandoned.
   (F)   (1)   Abandoned nonconforming signs are prohibited and must be removed
by the owner of the sign or the property owner of the premises.
      (2)   No building permits or approvals may be issued for buildings
occupied by nonconforming abandoned signs until such signs are removed or
updated to present sign ordinance.
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.455 NONCONFORMING FENCES.
   (A)   Fences which are legal non-conforming with regard to location on the
lot may be maintained and repaired as necessary. Such a fence may also be
replaced, provided the location and type of fence remains the same and the
height is not increased.
   (B)   However, in the event of (30%) of a non-conforming fence is damaged by
unforeseen incident, or a non-conforming fence containing barbed wire, razor
wire, or other harmful material, the replacement of the fence shall only be
permitted in accordance with the applicable current requirements of the zoning
district where the fence is located.
   (C)   Any person proposing to replace such a nonconforming fence shall
submit adequate documentation as part of the fence application for the
Improvement Location Permit for the fence verifying the current location,
height, and fencing material to a Zoning Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.456 NONCONFORMING PARKING AREA.
   Parking areas which do not conform to the improvement and or landscaping
standards or the screening and buffering standards may continue to be used. Any
proposed addition to or expansion of such a parking area shall be required to
conform to the current applicable parking requirements including the
improvement and landscaping standards, and the screening and buffering
standards. The resurfacing, restriping, or similar maintenance of existing
parking area shall not be considered an addition or expansion.
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.457 NONCONFORMING FLOODWAY/FLOODWAY FRINGE/ FLOOD PLAIN.
   (A)   In a floodway (FW) district, no nonconforming use may be expanded or
enlarged nor can a building undergo substantial modification without a permit
for construction in a floodway from Natural Resources.
   (B)   In a floodway fringe (FF) district a building which constitutes a
nonconforming use may undergo substantial modification provided such
modification is on a one-time only basis and further provided that such
modification does not increase the value of the building, by more than 40% of
its preimprovement market value, (excluding the value of land) unless such
building is permanently changed to a conforming use,
   (C)   A nonconforming use in a floodplain (FP) district may be altered,
enlarged, or extended, on a one-time-only basis, provided the procedures set
forth in the ordinance codified in this section with respect to new
construction in a floodplain (FP) district are followed and further provided
such alterations, enlargements, or extensions do not increase the value of the
building structure, or other use (excluding the value of land) by more than 40%
of its pre-improvement market value, unless such building, structure, or use is
permanently changed io a conforming use.
   (D)   Any nonconforming use in the FW, FF, and FP district which is damaged
by flood, fire, explosion, act of God, or the public enemy may be restored to
its original dimensions and conditions, provided the damage does not reduce the
value of the buildings, excluding the value of the land, by more than 40% of is
pre-damage value.
(Ord. 09-0008, passed 4-27-2009)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter
or shall fail to comply therewith or with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall build or alter any building in violation of any essential statement
or plan submitted and approved thereunder shall for each and every violation or
noncompliance be guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof or finding to
that effect, shall be fined not more than an amount as set by the city from
time to time to which may be added imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten
days. Each day the violation shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. The owner or owners of any building or any premises or any
part thereof, where anything in violation of this chapter shall exist and any
architect, builder, contractor, agent, person, or corporation employed in
connection therewith and who or which may have assisted in the Commission of
any violation shall each be guilty of a separate offense and upon conviction
thereof or finding to that effect shall be fined as herein provided and any
building erected, raised, or converted or land or premises used in violation of
any provision of this chapter or any requirement hereof, is declared to be a
common nuisance and as such may be abated in a manner as nuisances are now or
may hereafter be abated under existing law.
   (B)   Signs. In the event that subsequent to the adoption of §§
156.380 through
156.391, a sign is installed without a permit, an additional fee in an amount
as set by the city from time to time per sign or sign face shall be imposed.
   (C)   Fences. In the event that subsequent to the adoption of §§
156.380 through
156.391, a fence is installed without a building permit, a penalty fee in an
amount as set by the city from time to time shall be imposed each day of the
violation. The penalty fee shall constitute and be considered a separate
offence each day of the violation.
   (D)   Historic Preservation Committee.
      (1)   Illegal demolition.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful to demolish any portion of any landmark or
any improvement located within the historic preservation district unless
specifically permitted through a certificate of appropriateness issued for that
property.
         (b)   Property owners will be subject to the following fines and
penalties (which shall include a property) for any and all illegal demolition
to any landmark or any improvement listed on the historic register as defined
by the City Historic Commission:
            1.   A fine of no less than $10,000 and no greater than $50,000;
and
            2.   A two-year building moratorium on the property on which the
illegal demolition occurred.
         (c)   In cases where the building has been completely demolished,
ownership of the subject property is forfeited and the subject properly shall
become that of the city.
         (d)   In cases where a building is partially demolished, the property
owner shall be required to complete the construction or renovation of the home
in accordance with the building permits granted by the city.
         (e)   Occupancy shall not be granted on the subject property until two
years from the date of an approved final inspection of the structure.
         (f)   Prior to and during the building moratorium, the subject
property in all instances must be maintained in accordance with the property
maintenance code.
      (2)   Illegal construction or alteration.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful to complete any construction or alteration
to any landmark or any improvement located within a historic preservation
district unless specifically permitted through the certificate of
appropriateness issues for that property.
         (b)   1.   Property owners will be subject to the following fines and
penalties for any and all illegal construction or alteration to any landmark or
any improvement located within a historic preservation district:
            2.   A fine of no less than $500 and no greater than $1,000 per
day, per violation until an acceptable resolution is approved by the Historic
Sites Commission.
(Prior Code, § 156.999) (Ord. 0-01-0024, passed 9-10-2001; Ord. 0-02-0009,
passed - -2002; Ord. 0-08-0020, passed 9-22-2008)
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites                                    Code Section
Title 35; Articles 41 — 49                  131.045
1-1-1-5                                       10.004
1-1-1-7                                       10.012
1-1-1-8                                       10.006
1-1-4-5                                       10.005
1-1-5-1                                       10.011
1-1-6-1                                       10.008
1-1-7-1                                       93.018
3-5-5-1 et seq.                               33.060
4-13-16.5-1                                   37.002
4-13-18-5                                     37.055
4-13-18-6                                     37.055
4-13.6-4                                      37.055
4-21.5-5                                      95.051
5-1-11                                        40.006
5-3-1                                         33.059;
                                              156.055
5-11-13-1                                     37.009
5-14-1.5-2(c)                                 135.008
5-14-3                                        37.061;
                                              132.059
5-14-3-3.5                                    39.002
5-14-3-4(b)                                   38.119
5-14-3-8                                      39.002
5-14-3 et seq.                                156.296
5-16-9-1                                      72.095
5-16-9-1 et seq.                              72.095
5-16-9-2                                      72.098
5-16-9-5                                      72.999
5-22                                          37.009
5-14–3-3.5                                  39.002
6-1.1-10-1                                    54.075
6-1.1-10-2                                    54.075
6-1.1-10-4                                    54.075
6-1.1-10-5                                    54.075
6-1.1-10-16                                   54.075
6-1.1-18.5-17                                 38.194
6-1.1-41                                      40.015
6-3-2                                         112.021
6-3.5-6-31(b)                                 38.196
6-3.5-7                                       38.172
6-3.5-7-13.1(c)(1)                            38.132
6-3.5-7-13.1(c)(2)(A) — 6-3.5-7-13.1(c)(2)(K38.132
6-3.5-7-12.7                                  38.172
6-3.6-9-17                                    38.147
6-7-1-30.1                                    38.041
6-7-1-31.1                                    38.041
6-1;1-18.5-17                                 38.146
7.1-1-3-5                                     71.125;
                                              131.060
7.1-1-3-13                                    71.125;
                                              131.060
8-1.5-1 et seq.                               32.030
8-1.5-3-4                                     54.001
8-1.5-5                                       54.001;
                                              54.071
8-1.5-5-6                                     54.001
8-1-32.3-17(a)                                156.292
8-1-32.3 et seq.                              156.293
8-10-5-22(b)                                  40.018
8-10-9-3                                      40.004
8-14-16-5                                     38.132
8-16-3                                        38.040
8-22-3-25                                     38.040
8-23-10                                       37.055
9-13-1 et seq.                                70.003
9-13-2-105                                    71.125
9-13-2-150                                    71.125
9-30-3-6                                      110.999
13-2-31-26                                    38.040
13-3-3-89                                     38.040
13-17-9                                       95.133
13-30-10-1.5                                  51.999
14-19-1                                       154.060
14-28-1                                       154.060
14-34                                         54.016;
                                              54.036
16-12.2-5-32                                  38.040
16-31-5                                       32.124;
                                              38.043
16-42-1                                       112.022
16-42-2-6                                     112.022
16-42-5                                       110.002
20-33-2-6                                     134.031
20-33-2-15                                    134.031
20-33-2-16                                    134.031
20-33-2-17                                    134.031
20-33-2-17.2                                  134.031
20-33-2-17.5                                  134.031
20-33-2-18                                    134.031
20-33-2-19                                    134.031
20-33-2-23                                    134.033
20-33-2-44                                    134.036
22-11-14-4.5(a)                               110.098
22-11-14-5.5(b)(1)                            110.098
22-11-14-4.5(b)(2)                            110.098
22-11-14-4.5(c)                               110.098
22-12-1-4                                     150.004
22-12-1-5                                     150.004
22-12-1-7                                     150.004
22-12-1-14                                    150.004
22-12-1-16                                    150.004
22-12-1-17                                    150.004
22-12-1-18                                    150.004
22-12-1-24                                    150.003
22-12-1-26                                    150.004
22-12-7                                       150.003
22-13-2-3(b)                                  150.006
22-13-2-7                                     150.019
22-13-2-7(b)                                  150.006
22-13-2-11                                    150.003
22-15-4                                       150.005
31-6-4-15.7                                   134.003
31-37-3-4                                     134.002
31-37-9                                       134.034
31-37-19-27                                   134.003
32-25-2-9                                     150.003
34-28-5                                       110.999
34-28-5-1                                     110.999
34-28-5-1(f)                                  38.116
34-57-2-10 et seq.                            39.037
35-44-1-3                                     37.009
35-47-1 et seq.                               135.006
35-47-1-5                                     135.008
35-48-2                                       38.114
35-48-4-8.1                                   111.125
35-48-4-8.3                                   111.125
35-48-4-8.5                                   111.125
35-50-2-4                                     110.025
35-50-2-5                                     110.025
35-50-2-6                                     110.025
35-50-2-7                                     110.025
35-50-3-2                                     110.025
35-50-3-3                                     110.025
35-71-1 et seq.                               35.010
36-1-2-9                                      40.004
36-1-2-23                                     40.004
36-1-3-8                                      100.99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)                               10.999
36-1-4-11                                     154.001
36-1.5-5                                      32.180
36-1-5-4                                      150.006
36-1-6                                        110.999
36-1-6-2                                      99.004;
                                              110.999
36-1-6-2(a)                                   110.044
36-1-6-4(b)                                   110.999
36-1-7                                        38.132
36-1-8-5                                      38.202
36-1-8-10                                     33.056
36-1-9.5                                      37.042
36-1-11-3(c)                                  39.001
36-1-12                                       37.009;
                                              40.014
36-1-20-1.5                                   113.022
36-4-4-3                                      32.003
36-4-5-3                                      32.015
36-4-9                                        33.056
36-4-9-4                                      32.036
36-4-9-4(a)                                   33.056
36-4-9-4(c)(7)                                33.056
36-4-9-5                                      32.225
36-5-2-2                                      10.015
36-7-2-7                                      38.192
36-7-4-100 et seq.                            155.004
36-7-4-700 et seq.                            155.006
36-7-4-1400 et seq.                           156.003;
                                              156.010
36-7-9 et seq.                                32.075;
                                              132.056
36-7-9-1 et seq.                              32.059;
                                              55.047
36-7-9-2                                      110.999;
                                              132.055
36-7-10.1-3                                   93.018
36-7-10.1-4                                   93.018
36-7-12-29                                    32.165
36-7.5                                        38.132
36-8-2-10                                     110.098
36-8-3.2-3                                    33.060
36-8-3.2-3.5                                  33.060
36-8-3.2-6                                    33.060
36-8-3.5-1(d)                                 33.069
36-8-3.5-6                                    33.056
36-8-3.5-7                                    33.057
36-8-3.5-8                                    33.058
36-8-3.5-9                                    33.059
36-8-3.5-10                                   33.059
36-8-3.5-11                                   33.060
36-8-3.5-12                                   33.060
36-8-3.5-13                                   33.061
36-8-3.5-14                                   33.061
36-8-3.5-15                                   33.061
36-8-3.5-16                                   33.061
36-8-3.5-17                                   33.062
36-8-3.5-18                                   33.063
36-8-3.5-19                                   33.064
36-8-3.5-20                                   33.065
36-8-3.5-21                                   33.066
36-8-3.5-22                                   33.067
36-8-3.5-23                                   33.068
36-8-4-6.5                                    33.060
36-8-6- et seq.                               33.006
36-8-7                                        34.045
36-8-8-19                                     33.060
36-8-14                                       38.040
36-9-4-48                                     38.040
36-9-16                                       38.203
36-9-16-2                                     38.040
36-9-16-3                                     38.040
36-9-16.5                                     38.040
36-9-17                                       38.040
36-9-23-32                                    54.077
36-9-23-33                                    54.077
                                              32.032;
36-9-25                                       32.033;
                                              91.001
36-9-25 et seq.                               32.032;
                                              32.033
36-9-26                                       38.040
36-9-27-100                                   38.040
36-9-35                                       52.016
36-10-2-1 et seq.                             38.192
36-10-3                                       32.135;
                                              32.136
36-10-3 et seq.                               32.095
36-10-3-21                                    38.040
36-10-4-36                                    38.040
                                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2023 Code
Prior Code 2023 Code
11.01      11.001
11.02      11.002
12.01      12.001
30.01      30.001
30.02      30.002
30.03      30.003
30.04      30.004
30.05      30.005
30.06      30.006
30.07      30.007
30.08      30.008
30.09      30.009
30.10      30.010
30.11      30.011
30.12      30.012
30.13      30.013
30.14      30.014
30.15      30.015
30.16      30.016
30.17      30.017
30.18      30.018
30.19      30.019
30.20      30.020
30.21      30.021
31.001     30.035
31.002     30.036
31.003     30.037
31.004     30.038
31.005     30.038
31.006     30.039
31.007     30.040
31.008     30.041
31.020     31.001
31.021     31.002
31.022     31.003
31.035     31.015
31.036     31.016
31.037     31.017
31.038     31.018
31.039     31.019
31.050     31.030
31.051     31.031
31.052     31.032
31.053     31.033
31.065     31.045
31.066     31.046
31.067     31.047
31.068     31.048
31.080     31.060
31.081     31.061
31.082     31.062
31.083     31.063
31.095     31.075
31.096     31.076
31.097     31.077
31.098     31.078
31.099     31.079
31.100     31.080
31.101     31.081
31.102     31.082
32.001     32.001
32.002     32.002
32.003     32.015
32.004     32.016
32.005     32.090
32.006     32.091
32.007     32.092
32.008     32.030
32.009     32.070
32.010     32.031
32.011     32.032
32.012     32.033
32.013     32.034
32.014     32.050
32.015     32.051
32.016     32.052
32.017     32.053
32.018     32.054
32.019     32.017
32.020     32.055
32.021     32.071
32.022     32.093
32.023     32.072
32.024     32.073
32.025     32.074
32.026     32.056
32.027     32.057
32.028     32.058
32.030     32.094
32.031     32.095
32.032     32.096
32.033     32.018
32.034     32.003
32.035     32.004
32.050     32.110
32.051     32.111
32.052     32.112
32.053     32.113
32.054     32.113
32.055     32.114
32.056     32.115
32.057     32.116
32.058     32.117
32.059     32.118
32.060     32.119
32.061     32.120
32.062     32.121
32.063     32.122
32.064     32.123
32.065     32.123
32.066     32.123
32.080     32.135
32.081     32.136
32.082     32.137
32.083     32.138
32.084     32.139
32.085     32.139
32.100     32.036
32.101     32.036
32.102     32.036
32.103     32.036
32.104     32.036
32.115     32.150
32.116     32.151
32.117     32.152
32.130     32.165
32.131     32.165
32.132     32.165
32.133     32.165
32.134     32.165
32.135     32.165
32.136     32.165
32.137     32.165
32.138     32.165
32.139     32.165
32.140     32.165
32.155     32.166
32.156     32.166
32.157     32.166
32.158     32.166
32.159     32.166
32.160     32.166
32.161     32.166
32.162     32.166
32.175     32.124
32.176     32.124
32.177     32.124
32.190     32.167
32.191     32.167
32.192     32.167
32.193     32.167
32.194     32.167
32.195     32.167
32.210     32.180
32.211     32.181
32.212     32.181
32.213     32.181
32.214     32.182
32.215     32.183
32.216     32.184
32.217     32.185
32.218     32.185
32.219     32.186
32.220     32.187
32.255     32.168
32.256     32.168
32.257     32.168
32.270     32.169
32.271     32.169
32.272     32.169
32.273     32.169
32.285     32.200
32.286     32.201
32.287     32.202
32.288     32.203
32.289     32.204
32.290     32.205
32.291     32.206
32.292     32.207
32.293     32.208
32.294     32.209
32.295     32.210
32.315     32.059
32.316     32.059
32.330     32.075
32.331     32.075
33.005     32.228
33.006     32.228
33.015     32.228
33.016     32.228
33.017     32.228
33.018     32.228
33.019     32.228
33.020     32.228
33.021     32.228
33.035     32.226
33.036     32.226
33.050     32.227
33.051     32.227
33.065     32.227
33.066     32.227
33.067     32.227
33.068     32.227
33.080     32.227
33.081     32.227
33.082     32.227
33.083     32.227
33.084     32.227
33.085     32.227
34.001     33.001
34.002     33.002
34.003     33.003
34.004     33.004
34.015     33.020
34.016     33.021
34.017     33.022
34.030     33.035
34.031     33.036
34.032     33.037
34.033     33.038
34.034     33.039
34.035     33.040
34.036     33.041
34.050     33.005
34.051     33.005
34.052     33.005
34.065     33.006
34.066     33.006
34.067     33.005
34.068     33.006
34.069     33.006
34.080     33.055
34.081     33.056
34.082     33.057
34.083     33.058
34.084     33.059
34.085     33.059
34.086     33.060
34.087     33.060
34.088     33.061
34.089     33.061
34.090     33.061
34.092     33.061
34.092     33.062
34.093     33.063
34.094     33.064
34.095     33.065
34.096     33.066
34.097     33.067
34.098     33.068
34.099     33.069
35.001     34.001
35.002     34.002
35.003     34.003
35.004     34.004
35.005     34.005
35.020     34.020
35.021     34.021
35.034     34.037
35.035     34.035
35.036     34.036
35.037     34.037
35.038     34.037
35.041     34.041
35.042     34.042
35.043     34.043
35.044     34.044
35.045     34.045
35.046     34.046
35.047     34.047
35.048     34.048
35.049     34.049
35.060     34.060
35.061     34.061
35.062     34.062
35.063     34.063
35.075     34.006
35.076     34.006
35.077     34.006
35.090     34.075
35.091     34.076
35.092     34.077
35.093     34.078
35.094     34.079
35.095     34.080
35.096     34.081
35.097     34.082
35.110     34.007
35.111     34.007
35.112     34.007
35.113     34.007
35.125     34.008
35.125     34.095
35.126     34.096
35.127     34.097
35.128     34.098
36.001     35.001
36.002     35.002
36.003     35.003
36.004     35.004
36.005     35.005
36.006     35.006
36.020     35.007
36.021     35.007
36.035     35.008
36.036     35.008
36.050     35.009
36.051     35.009
36.065     35.010
36.066     35.010
36.080     35.011
36.081     35.011
36.082     35.011
36.083     35.011
36.084     35.011
36.085     35.011
37.01      36.001
37.15      36.015
37.16      36.016
37.17      36.017
37.18      36.018
37.30      36.030
37.31      36.031
37.32      36.032
37.33      36.033
37.34      36.034
37.35      36.035
37.36      36.036
37.37      36.037
37.38      36.038
37.39      36.039
37.40      36.040
37.41      36.041
37.42      36.042
38.01      39.004
39.01      37.001
39.02      37.002
39.03      37.003
39.04      37.004
39.05      37.005
39.06      37.006
39.07      37.007
39.08      37.008
39.20      37.020
39.21      37.021
39.22      37.022
39.23      37.023
39.24      37.024
39.25      37.025
39.26      37.026
39.27      37.027
39.28      37.028
39.40      37.040
39.41      37.041
39.42      37.042
39.43      37.043
39.44      37.044
41.01      39.035
42.01      39.001
42.02      39.002
42.03      39.003
42.15      39.020
42.16      39.021
42.17      39.022
42.18      39.023
42.19      39.024
42.99      39.999
43.001     38.001
43.002     38.002
43.003     38.003
43.015     38.041
43.030     38.203
43.031     38.203
43.045     38.042
43.046     38.042
43.047     38.042
43.048     38.042
43.049     38.042
43.050     38.042
43.065     38.043
43.066     38.043
43.067     38.043
43.068     38.043
43.069     38.043
43.080     38.056
43.081     38.056
43.082     38.056
43.083     38.056
43.095     38.145
43.110     38.193
43.125     38.076
43.140     38.075
43.155     38.078
43.170     38.190
43.185     38.040
43.186     38.040
43.187     38.040
43.188     38.040
43.189     38.040
43.190     38.040
43.205     38.115
43.220     38.192
43.221     38.192
43.222     38.192
43.235     38.191
43.265     38.198
43.266     38.198
43.280     38.197
43.281     38.197
43.295     38.058
43.296     38.058
43.297     38.058
43.298     38.058
43.310     38.055
43.311     38.055
43.312     38.055
43.313     38.055
43.325     38.199
43.326     38.199
43.327     38.199
43.328     38.199
43.340     38.057
43.341     38.057
43.342     38.057
43.343     38.057
43.355     38.114
43.356     38.114
43.357     38.114
43.358     38.114
43.370     38.152
43.371     38.152
43.372     38.152
43.373     38.152
43.385     38.204
43.386     38.204
43.387     38.204
43.388     38.204
43.400     38.113
43.401     38.113
43.402     38.113
43.403     38.113
43.415     38.220
43.416     38.220
43.417     38.220
43.418     38.220
43.430     38.110
43.431     38.110
43.432     38.110
43.433     38.110
43.445     38.133
43.446     38.133
43.447     38.133
43.448     38.133
43.460     38.150
43.461     38.150
43.462     38.150
43.463     38.150
43.475     38.131
43.476     38.131
43.477     38.131
43.478     38.131
43.490     38.111
43.491     38.111
43.492     38.111
43.493     38.111
43.494     38.111
43.505     38.112
43.506     38.112
43.507     38.112
43.508     38.112
43.509     38.112
43.520     38.132
43.521     38.132
43.535     38.202
43.536     38.202
44.01      40.001
44.02      40.002
44.03      40.003
44.04      40.004
44.05      40.005
44.06      40.006
44.07      40.007
44.08      40.008
44.09      40.009
44.10      40.010
44.11      40.011
44.12      40.012
44.13      40.013
44.14      40.014
44.15      40.015
44.16      40.016
44.17      40.017
44.18      40.018
44.19      40.019
44.20      40.020
50.001     50.001
50.002     50.002
50.003     50.003
50.004     50.004
50.005     50.005
50.006     50.006
50.007     50.007
50.008     50.008
50.020     50.020
50.021     50.021
50.035     50.035
50.036     50.036
50.037     50.037
50.038     50.038
50.039     50.039
50.040     50.040
50.041     50.041
50.042     50.042
50.043     50.042
50.044     50.043
50.055     50.055
50.056     50.056
50.057     50.057
50.058     50.058
50.059     50.059
50.060     50.060
50.999     50.999
52.01      52.001
52.02      52.002
52.15      52.015
52.16      52.016
52.17      52.017
52.18      52.018
52.19      52.019
53.01      53.001
53.02      53.002
53.03      53.003
53.04      53.004
53.05      53.005
53.06      53.006
53.07      53.007
54.001     54.001
54.002     54.002
54.003     54.003
54.015     54.015
54.016     54.016
54.017     54.017
54.018     54.018
54.019     54.019
54.020     54.020
54.035     54.035
54.036     54.036
54.037     54.037
54.038     54.038
54.050     54.004
54.065     54.050
54.066     54.051
54.067     54.052
54.068     54.053
54.069     54.054
54.070     54.055
54.071     54.056
54.072     54.057
54.085     54.070
54.086     54.071
54.087     54.072
54.088     54.073
54.089     54.074
54.090     54.075
54.091     54.076
54.092     54.077
54.999     54.999
55.001     55.001
55.002     55.002
55.003     55.003
55.004     55.004
55.005     55.005
55.006     55.006
55.007     55.007
55.008     55.008
55.009     55.009
55.010     55.010
55.011     55.011
55.025     55.025
55.026     55.026
55.027     55.027
55.028     55.028
55.029     55.029
55.030     55.030
55.031     55.031
55.032     55.032
55.033     55.033
55.045     55.045
55.046     55.046
55.048     55.048
55.049     55.049
55.060     55.060
55.061     55.061
55.075     55.075
55.076     55.076
55.077     55.077
70.001     70.001
70.002     70.002
70.003     70.003
70.004     70.004
70.015     70.015
70.016     70.016
70.017     70.017
70.018     70.018
70.019     70.019
70.020     70.020
70.021     70.021
70.022     70.022
70.023     70.023
70.024     70.024
70.025     70.025
70.026     70.026
70.027     70.027
70.028     70.028
70.040     70.040
70.041     70.041
70.055     70.055
70.056     70.056
70.070     70.070
70.071     70.071
70.072     70.072
70.086     70.085
70.087     70.086
70.100     70.100
70.101     70.101
70.102     70.102
70.103     70.103
70.115     70.115
70.116     70.116
70.117     70.117
70.118     70.118
70.119     70.119
70.999     70.999
71.001     71.001
71.002     71.002
71.003     71.003
71.004     71.004
71.005     71.005
71.006     71.006
71.007     71.007
71.008     71.008
71.009     71.009
71.010     71.010
71.011     71.011
71.012     71.012
71.013     71.013
71.014     71.014
71.015     71.015
71.016     71.016
71.017     71.017
71.018     71.018
71.019     71.019
71.020     71.020
71.035     71.035
71.036     71.036
71.037     71.037
71.038     71.038
71.039     71.039
71.040     71.040
71.055     71.055
71.056     71.056
71.070     71.070
71.071     71.071
71.072     71.072
71.085     71.085
71.086     71.086
71.087     71.087
71.088     71.088
71.100     71.100
71.101     71.101
71.102     71.102
71.103     71.103
71.104     71.104
71.105     71.105
71.106     71.106
71.107     71.107
71.108     71.108
71.109     71.109
71.110     71.110
71.111     71.111
71.125     71.125
71.126     71.126
71.127     71.127
71.128     71.128
71.140     Ch. 77, Sched. I
71.141     Ch. 77, Sched. II
71.142     Ch. 77, Sched. III
71.143     Ch. 77, Sched. IV
71.144     Ch. 77, Sched. V;
           Ch. 77, Sched. VII
71.145     Ch. 77, Sched. VI
71.146     Ch. 77, Sched. VII
           71.999;
71.999     Ch. 77, Sched. I;
           Ch. 77, Sched. II;
           Ch. 77, Sched. IV
72.001     72.001
72.002     72.002
72.003     72.003
72.104     Ch. 78, Sched. I
72.015     72.015
72.016     72.016
72.017     72.017
72.018     72.018
72.019     72.019
72.030     72.030
72.031     72.031
72.032     72.032
72.045     72.045
72.046     72.046
72.047     72.047
72.048     72.048
72.049     72.049
72.050     72.050
72.051     72.051
72.052     72.052
72.053     72.053
72.054     72.054
72.055     72.055
72.056     72.056
72.057     72.057
72.058     72.058
72.059     72.059
72.060     72.060
72.061     72.061
72.062     72.062
72.063     72.063
72.075     72.075
72.076     72.076
72.077     72.077
72.078     72.078
72.079     72.079
72.080     72.080
72.081     72.081
72.082     72.082
72.083     72.082
72.095     Ch. 78, Sched. IX
72.096     Ch. 78, Sched. II
72.097     Ch. 78, Sched. III
72.098     Ch. 78, Sched. IV
72.099     Ch. 78, Sched. V
72.100     Ch. 78, Sched. VI
72.101     Ch. 78, Sched. VII
72.102     Ch. 78, Sched. VIII
72.103     Ch. 78, Sched. IX
72.104     Ch. 78, Sched. I
           72.999;
           Ch. 78, Sched. I;
           Ch. 78, Sched. II;
72.999     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
           Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
           Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
           Ch. 78, Sched. IX
73.01      73.001
73.02      73.002
73.03      73.003
73.04      73.004
73.05      73.005
73.06      73.006
73.07      73.007
73.08      73.008
73.09      73.009
73.10      73.010
73.11      73.011
73.12      73.012
73.25      73.025
73.26      73.026
73.99      73.999
74.01      74.001
74.02      74.002
74.03      74.003
74.04      74.004
74.05      74.005
74.06      74.006
74.07      74.007
74.08      74.008
74.09      74.009
74.10      74.010
74.11      74.011
75.01      75.001
75.02      75.002
75.03      75.003
75.04      75.004
75.05      75.005
75.20      75.020
75.21      75.021
75.22      75.022
75.23      75.023
75.24      75.024
75.25      75.025
75.26      75.026
75.27      75.027
75.40      75.040
75.41      75.041
75.42      75.042
75.43      75.043
75.44      75.044
75.45      75.045
75.46      75.046
75.47      75.047
75.48      75.048
75.49      75.049
75.50      75.050
75.51      75.051
75.52      75.052
75.53      75.053
75.54      75.054
75.55      75.055
76.01      72.095
76.02      72.096
76.03      72.097
76.04      72.098
76.99      72.999
77.01      76.001
77.02      76.002
77.03      76.003
77.04      76.004
77.05      76.005
77.06      76.006
77.07      76.007
77.08      76.008
77.09      76.009
77.10      76.010
77.11      76.011
77.12      76.012
77.13      76.013
77.14      76.014
77.15      76.015
77.30      76.030
77.31      76.031
77.32      76.032
77.33      76.033
77.34      76.034
77.35      76.035
77.50      76.050
77.51      76.051
77.52      76.052
77.65      76.065
77.66      76.066
77.67      76.067
77.68      76.068
77.69      76.069
77.99      76.999
90.001     90.001
90.002     90.002
90.003     90.003
90.004     90.004
90.005     90.005
90.006     90.006
90.007     90.007
90.008     90.008
90.009     90.009
90.010     90.010
90.025     90.026
90.026     90.026
90.027     90.027
90.028     90.028
90.029     90.029
90.030     90.030
90.045     90.045
90.046     90.046
90.047     90.047
90.048     90.048
90.060     90.060
90.061     90.061
90.062     90.062
90.063     90.063
90.064     90.064
90.065     90.065
90.080     90.080
90.081     90.081
90.082     90.082
90.083     90.083
90.084     90.084
90.085     90.085
90.086     90.086
90.087     90.087
90.100     90.100
90.101     90.101
90.102     90.102
90.103     90.103
90.104     90.104
90.105     90.105
90.120     90.120
90.121     90.121
90.122     90.122
90.123     90.123
90.999     90.999
91.001     91.001
91.002     91.002
91.003     91.003
91.015     91.015
91.016     91.015
91.017     91.015
91.018     91.016
91.019     91.017
91.020     91.018
91.021     91.019
91.035     91.004
91.050     91.035
91.051     91.036
91.052     91.037
91.053     91.038
91.054     91.039
91.055     91.040
91.056     91.041
91.057     91.042
91.058     91.043
91.059     91.044
91.060     91.045
91.061     91.046
92.001     92.001
92.002     92.002
92.003     92.003
92.004     92.004
92.005     92.005
92.006     92.006
92.007     92.007
92.008     92.008
92.009     92.009
92.010     92.010
92.011     92.011
92.012     92.012
92.013     92.013
92.025     92.025
92.026     92.025
92.027     92.025
92.028     92.025
92.029     92.025
92.030     92.025
92.031     92.025
92.045     92.026
92.046     92.027
92.047     92.028
92.048     92.029
92.049     92.030
92.050     92.031
92.051     92.032
92.052     92.033
92.053     92.034
92.065     92.045
92.066     92.046
92.067     92.047
92.068     92.048
92.069     92.049
92.070     92.050
92.071     92.051
92.072     92.052
92.085     92.065
92.086     92.066
92.087     92.067
92.088     92.068
92.089     92.069
92.090     92.070
92.091     92.071
92.999     92.999
93.001     93.001
93.002     93.002
93.003     93.003
93.004     93.004
93.005     93.005
93.006     93.006
93.007     93.007
93.008     93.008
93.009     93.009
93.010     93.010
93.011     93.011
93.012     93.012
93.013     93.013
93.014     93.014
93.015     93.015
93.016     93.016
93.030     93.030
93.031     93.031
93.032     93.032
93.033     93.032
93.034     93.032
93.035     93.032
93.036     93.032
93.037     93.033
93.038     93.034
93.039     93.035
93.040     93.036
93.041     93.037
93.042     93.038
93.043     93.039
93.055     93.017
93.056     93.017
93.057     93.017
93.070     93.060
93.071     93.061
93.072     93.062
93.073     93.063
93.074     93.064
93.085     93.018
94.01      94.001
94.02      94.002
94.03      94.003
94.04      94.004
94.05      94.005
94.06      94.006
94.07      94.007
94.20      94.020
94.21      94.021
94.22      94.022
94.23      94.023
94.24      94.024
94.35      94.035
94.36      94.036
94.37      94.037
94.38      94.038
94.50      94.050
94.51      94.051
94.52      94.052
94.99      94.999
95.01      91.060
95.02      91.061
95.03      91.062
95.15      91.063
95.16      91.064
95.17      91.065
95.18      91.066
95.19      91.067
95.20      91.068
95.21      91.069
95.99      91.999
96.01      93.075
96.02      93.076
96.03      93.077
96.04      93.078
96.05      93.079
96.06      93.080
96.07      93.081
96.99      93.999
97.001     97.001
97.002     97.001
97.003     97.002
97.004     97.003
97.005     97.004
97.006     97.005
97.007     97.006
97.020     97.020
97.021     97.021
97.022     97.022
97.023     97.023
97.024     97.024
97.025     97.025
97.040     97.040
97.041     97.041
97.042     97.042
97.043     97.043
97.055     97.055
97.056     97.056
97.057     97.057
97.058     97.058
97.059     97.059
97.060     97.060
97.075     97.075
97.076     97.075
97.077     97.075
97.078     97.076
97.079     97.077
97.080     97.078
97.081     97.079
97.082     97.080
97.083     97.081
97.095     97.095
97.096     97.096
97.097     97.097
97.098     97.098
97.099     97.099
97.100     97.100
97.115     97.100
97.116     97.100
97.117     97.115
97.118     97.115
97.119     97.116
97.120     97.117
97.121     97.118
97.122     97.119
97.123     97.120
97.124     97.121
97.125     97.122
97.126     97.123
97.140     97.135
97.141     97.135
97.142     97.135
97.143     97.135
97.144     97.136
97.145     97.137
97.146     97.138
97.160     97.150
97.161     97.151
97.162     97.152
97.163     97.153
97.164     97.154
97.165     97.155
97.166     97.156
97.167     97.157
97.168     97.158
97.180     97.007
98.01      98.001
98.02      98.002
98.03      98.003
98.04      98.004
98.05      98.005
98.06      98.006
98.07      98.007
98.08      98.007
98.09      98.008
98.10      98.008
98.11      98.009
98.12      98.010
98.25      98.025
98.26      98.026
98.27      98.027
98.28      98.028
98.29      98.029
98.40      98.040
98.41      98.041
98.42      98.042
98.43      98.042
98.44      98.043
98.45      98.044
98.46      98.045
98.47      98.046
98.48      98.047
98.49      98.048
99.01      99.001
99.02      99.002
99.03      99.003
99.04      99.004
99.05      99.005
99.06      99.006
99.07      99.007
99.08      99.008
99.09      99.009
99.10      99.010
99.11      99.011
99.12      99.012
99.13      99.013
99.14      99.014
99.20      99.030
99.21      99.031
99.22      99.032
99.36      99.015
100.01     96.001
100.02     96.002
100.03     96.003
100.04     96.004
100.05     96.005
100.06     96.006
100.07     96.007
100.08     96.008
100.09     96.009
100.10     96.010
100.11     96.011
100.12     96.012
100.13     96.013
100.14     96.014
100.15     96.015
100.16     96.016
100.17     96.017
100.99     96.999
101.01     96.030
101.02     96.031
101.03     96.032
101.04     96.033
101.05     96.033
101.06     96.034
101.07     96.035
101.08     96.036
101.09     96.037
101.10     96.037
101.11     96.038
101.12     96.039
101.13     96.040
101.14     96.041
101.15     96.042
101.16     96.043
101.17     96.044
101.18     96.045
101.19     96.046
101.20     96.046
101.21     96.046
101.22     96.046
101.23     96.047
101.24     96.047
101.25     96.048
102.001    95.001
102.002    95.002
102.003    95.003
102.004    95.004
102.005    95.005
102.006    95.006
102.007    95.007
102.008    95.008
102.009    95.009
102.010    95.010
102.011    95.011
102.012    95.012
102.013    95.013
102.025    95.025
102.026    95.026
102.027    95.027
102.028    95.028
102.029    95.029
102.030    95.030
102.045    95.045
102.046    95.046
102.047    95.047
102.048    95.048
102.049    95.049
102.050    95.050
102.051    95.051
102.065    95.065
102.066    95.066
102.067    95.067
102.068    95.068
102.069    95.069
102.070    95.070
102.071    95.071
102.072    95.072
102.073    95.073
102.074    95.074
102.075    95.075
102.076    95.076
102.077    95.077
102.090    95.090
102.091    95.091
102.092    95.092
102.093    95.093
102.105    95.105
102.106    95.106
102.107    95.107
102.108    95.108
102.109    95.109
102.110    95.110
102.111    95.111
102.112    95.112
102.113    95.113
102.114    95.114
102.115    95.115
102.116    95.116
102.130    95.130
102.131    95.131
102.132    95.132
102.133    95.133
102.134    95.134
102.135    95.135
102.136    95.136
102.137    95.137
102.138    95.138
102.150    95.150
102.151    95.151
102.152    95.152
102.153    95.153
102.154    95.154
102.155    95.155
102.170    95.170
102.171    95.171
102.172    95.172
102.173    95.173
102.174    95.174
102.175    95.175
102.190    95.190
102.191    95.191
102.999    95.999
103.01     93.095
103.02     93.096
103.03     93.097
103.04     93.098
103.05     93.099
111.01     111.001
111.02     111.002
111.15     111.015
111.16     111.015
111.17     111.015
111.18     111.015
111.19     111.015
111.20     111.016
111.21     111.017
111.22     111.018
111.23     111.019
111.24     111.020
111.25     111.021
111.26     111.022
111.40     111.035
111.41     111.035
111.42     111.035
111.43     111.035
111.44     111.036
111.45     111.037
112.01     117.115
112.02     117.116
112.03     117.117
112.04     117.118
112.99     117.999
113.01     117.090
113.02     117.091
113.03     117.092
113.04     117.093
113.05     117.094
113.06     117.095
113.07     117.096
113.08     117.097
113.09     117.098
113.10     117.099
113.11     117.100
113.12     117.101
114.01     112.001
114.02     112.001
114.03     112.002
114.15     112.015
114.16     112.016
114.17     112.017
114.18     112.018
114.19     112.019
114.20     112.020
114.21     112.021
114.22     112.022
114.23     112.023
114.35     112.035
114.36     112.036
114.37     112.037
114.38     112.038
114.39     112.039
114.40     112.040
114.41     112.041
114.42     112.041
114.43     112.041
114.44     112.041
115.001    114.001
115.002    114.002
115.003    114.003
115.004    114.004
115.006    114.005
115.009    114.005
115.010    114.005
115.011    114.005
115.025    114.020
115.026    114.020
115.027    114.020
115.028    114.020
115.029    114.021
115.030    114.022
115.031    114.023
115.032    114.024
115.045    114.035
115.046    114.036
115.047    114.037
115.048    114.037
115.049    114.037
115.050    114.037
115.051    114.038
115.065    114.050
115.066    114.050
115.067    114.050
115.068    114.051
115.069    114.052
115.070    114.053
115.085    114.065
115.086    114.065
115.087    114.066
115.088    114.067
116.01     111.003
116.02     111.004
116.15     111.050
116.16     111.051
116.17     111.052
116.18     111.053
116.19     111.054
116.20     111.054
116.21     111.054
116.22     111.054
116.23     111.054
116.24     111.054
116.25     111.054
116.40     111.065
116.41     111.066
116.42     111.066
116.43     111.066
116.44     111.066
116.45     111.066
116.46     111.067
116.47     111.068
116.48     111.069
116.49     111.070
116.50     111.071
116.51     111.072
116.52     111.073
116.53     111.074
116.54     111.075
116.55     111.076
117.01     117.130
117.02     117.131
117.03     117.131
118.01     115.001
118.02     115.002
118.03     115.003
118.04     115.004
118.05     115.005
118.06     115.006
118.07     115.007
118.08     115.008
118.09     115.009
118.10     115.010
118.11     115.011
118.12     115.012
118.13     115.013
118.14     115.014
118.15     115.015
118.16     115.016
118.17     115.017
118.18     115.018
118.19     115.019
118.20     115.020
118.35     115.035
118.36     115.036
118.37     115.037
118.38     115.038
118.39     115.039
118.40     115.039
118.41     115.039
118.42     115.039
118.43     115.039
118.44     115.039
118.45     115.039
118.46     115.039
118.47     115.039
118.48     115.039
118.99     115.999
119.01     113.001
119.02     113.002
119.03     113.002
119.04     113.002
119.05     113.003
119.06     113.004
119.07     113.005
119.08     113.006
120.001    117.025
120.002    117.026
120.003    117.027
120.004    117.028
120.005    117.029
120.006    117.030
120.007    117.031
120.008    117.032
120.009    117.033
120.010    117.034
120.011    117.034
120.012    117.034
120.013    117.034
120.014    117.034
120.015    117.034
120.016    117.034
120.030    117.001
120.031    117.002
120.032    117.002
120.033    117.002
120.034    117.003
120.035    117.004
120.036    117.005
120.037    117.006
120.038    117.007
120.039    117.008
120.040    117.009
120.041    117.010
120.042    117.011
120.055    116.015
120.056    116.016
120.057    116.017
120.058    116.018
120.059    116.019
120.060    116.020
120.061    116.021
120.062    116.022
120.063    116.023
120.064    116.023
120.065    116.023
120.066    116.023
120.067    116.023
120.068    116.023
120.069    116.023
120.080    117.045
120.081    117.045
120.082    117.045
120.083    117.046
120.084    117.047
120.085    117.048
120.086    117.049
120.100    116.001
120.101    116.002
120.102    116.002
120.103    116.002
120.104    116.002
120.105    116.002
120.120    116.035
120.121    116.036
120.122    116.037
120.123    116.037
120.124    116.037
120.125    116.037
120.126    116.037
120.127    116.037
120.128    116.037
120.140    117.060
120.141    117.061
120.142    117.062
120.143    117.063
120.999    116.999
120.999    117.999
121.01     111.090
121.02     111.091
121.03     111.092
121.04     111.093
121.05     111.094
121.06     111.095
121.07     111.096
121.08     111.096
121.09     111.096
121.10     111.096
122.01     117.165
122.02     117.166
122.03     117.167
122.04     117.167
122.05     117.167
122.06     117.167
122.07     117.167
122.08     117.167
123.01     113.020
123.02     113.021
124.01     111.125
124.02     111.126
124.03     111.127
125.01     117.145
125.02     117.146
125.03     117.146
125.04     117.147
125.05     117.148
125.06     117.149
125.07     117.150
125.08     117.151
125.99     117.999
126.01     111.110
126.02     111.110
126.03     111.110
126.04     111.111
126.05     111.112
126.06     111.113
127.01     114.080
127.02     114.081
127.03     114.082
127.04     114.083
127.05     114.083
127.06     114.083
127.07     114.083
127.08     114.083
128.01     115.050
128.02     115.051
128.03     115.052
128.04     115.053
128.05     115.053
128.06     115.053
128.07     115.053
128.08     115.053
128.09     115.053
128.10     115.054
128.11     115.055
128.12     115.056
128.13     115.057
128.14     115.058
128.15     115.059
128.16     115.060
128.17     115.061
128.18     115.062
128.99     115.999
129.01     111.140
129.02     111.141
129.03     111.142
129.04     111.142
129.05     111.143
129.06     111.144
129.07     111.145
129.99     111.999
130.01     130.001
130.02     130.002
130.03     130.003
130.04     130.004
130.05     130.005
130.06     130.006
130.07     130.007
131.01     131.001
131.02     131.002
131.03     131.003
131.04     131.004
131.15     131.015
131.16     131.016
131.17     131.016
131.18     131.016
131.30     131.030
131.31     131.031
131.32     131.032
131.33     131.033
131.34     131.034
131.45     131.045
131.46     131.046
131.47     131.047
131.60     131.060
131.61     131.061
131.99     131.999
132.01     132.001
132.02     132.002
132.03     132.003
132.04     132.004
132.05     132.005
132.06     132.006
132.20     132.020
132.21     132.021
132.22     132.022
132.35     132.035
132.36     132.036
132.37     132.037
132.38     132.038
132.39     132.039
132.40     132.040
132.99     132.999
133.01     133.001
133.02     133.002
133.03     133.003
133.15     133.015
133.16     133.016
133.17     133.016
133.18     133.017
133.19     133.018
133.99     133.999
134.01     136.001
135.01     134.001
135.03     134.003
135.15     134.015
135.16     134.016
135.17     134.017
135.99     134.999
136.01     135.001
136.02     135.002
136.03     135.003
136.04     135.004
136.05     135.005
136.06     135.006
136.07     135.007
136.99     135.999
137.01     130.008
137.02     130.008
137.99     130.999
150.01     150.001
150.02     150.002
150.03     150.003
150.04     150.004
150.05     150.005
150.06     150.006
150.07     150.007
150.08     150.008
150.09     150.009
150.10     150.010
150.11     150.011
150.12     150.012
150.13     150.013
150.14     150.014
150.15     150.015
150.16     150.016
150.17     150.017
150.18     150.018
150.19     150.019
150.20     150.020
150.99     150.999
151.01     151.001
151.02     151.002
151.03     151.003
151.04     151.004
151.05     151.005
151.06     151.006
151.07     151.007
151.08     151.008
151.09     151.009
151.20     151.020
151.21     151.020
151.22     151.020
151.23     151.020
151.24     151.021
152.01     152.001
152.02     152.002
152.03     152.003
152.04     152.004
152.05     152.005
152.06     152.006
152.07     152.007
152.08     152.008
152.09     152.009
152.10     152.010
152.11     152.011
152.12     152.012
152.13     152.013
152.14     152.014
152.15     152.015
152.16     152.015
152.17     152.016
152.18     152.017
153.01     153.001
153.02     153.002
153.03     153.003
153.04     153.004
153.05     153.005
153.06     153.006
153.07     153.007
155.001    155.001
155.002    155.002
155.003    155.003
155.004    155.004
155.005    155.005
155.006    155.006
155.020    155.020
155.021    155.021
155.035    155.035
155.036    155.036
155.037    155.037
155.038    155.038
155.039    155.039
155.040    155.040
155.041    155.041
155.042    155.042
155.043    155.043
155.044    155.044
155.045    155.045
155.046    155.046
155.060    155.060
155.061    155.061
155.062    155.062
155.063    155.063
155.075    155.075
155.076    155.076
155.090    155.090
155.091    155.091
155.092    155.092
155.093    155.093
155.105    155.105
155.106    155.106
155.107    155.107
155.108    155.108
155.109    155.109
155.120    155.120
155.121    155.121
155.122    155.122
155.135    155.135
155.150    155.150
155.151    155.151
155.152    155.152
155.165    155.168
155.166    155.169
155.180    155.180
155.181    155.181
155.195    155.195
155.196    155.196
155.197    155.197
155.999    155.999
156.001    156.001
156.002    156.002
156.003    156.003
156.004    156.004
156.005    156.005
156.006    156.006
156.007    156.007
156.008    156.008
156.009    156.008
156.010    156.009
156.011    156.010
156.025    156.025
156.026    156.026
156.027    156.027
156.028    156.028
156.029    156.029
156.040    156.040
156.041    156.040
156.042    156.040
156.043    156.041
156.055    156.055
156.056    156.056
156.057    156.057
156.058    156.058
156.070    156.070
156.071    156.071
156.072    156.072
156.073    156.073
156.074    156.074
156.075    156.075
156.076    156.076
156.077    156.077
156.078    156.078
156.079    156.079
156.080    156.080
156.081    156.081
156.082    156.082
156.095    156.095
156.096    156.096
156.097    156.097
156.110    156.110
156.111    156.111
156.112    156.112
156.125    156.125
156.126    156.126
156.127    156.127
156.140    156.140
156.141    156.141
156.142    156.142
156.155    156.155
156.156    156.156
156.157    156.157
156.170    156.170
156.171    156.171
156.172    156.172
156.173    156.173
156.174    156.174
156.185    156.185
156.186    156.186
156.187    156.187
156.188    156.188
156.189    156.189
156.200    156.200
156.201    156.201
156.202    156.202
156.203    156.203
156.215    156.215
156.216    156.216
156.217    156.217
156.218    156.218
156.219    156.219
156.220    156.220
156.221    156.221
156.222    156.222
156.223    156.223
156.224    156.224
156.225    156.225
156.226    156.226
156.227    156.227
156.228    156.228
156.229    156.229
156.230    156.230
156.231    156.231
156.245    156.245
156.246    156.246
156.247    156.247
156.248    156.248
156.249    156.249
156.260    156.260
156.261    156.261
156.262    156.262
156.263    156.263
156.275    156.275
156.276    156.276
156.290    156.315
156.291    156.316
156.292    156.317
156.293    156.318
156.305    156.330
156.306    156.331
156.307    156.332
156.308    156.333
156.309    156.334
156.310    156.335
156.325    156.350
156.326    156.351
156.327    156.352
156.328    156.353
156.329    156.354
156.340    156.365
156.341    156.366
156.342    156.367
156.343    156.368
156.355    156.380
156.356    156.381
156.357    156.382
156.358    156.383
156.359    156.384
156.360    156.385
156.361    156.386
156.362    156.387
156.363    156.388
156.364    156.389
156.365    156.389
156.366    156.390
156.367    156.391
156.380    156.405
156.381    156.406
156.382    156.407
156.383    156.408
156.384    156.409
156.385    156.410
156.386    156.411
156.387    156.412
156.388    156.413
156.389    156.413
156.390    156.414
156.391    156.415
156.405    156.430
156.406    156.431
156.407    156.432
156.408    156.433
156.999    156.999
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
02-2016  5-2-2016    156.077
02-2017  1-17-2017   156.290—
                     156.301
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
0-99-0027 - -         32.096
3509      - -         38.192
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3059      - -1974     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3061      - -1974     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
3062      - -1974     Ch. 78, Sched. IX;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3077      - -1975     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3081      - -1975     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3087      - -1975     90.999
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3090      - -1975     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3092      - -1975     70.001;
                      72.057
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3094      - -1975     Ch. 77, Sched. III; 
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3104      - -1976     97.007
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3107      - -1976     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3113      - -1976     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
3119      - -1976     76.051;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IV
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3120      - -1976     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3121      - -1976     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3122      - -1976     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3125      - -1976     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3126      - -1976     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3128      - -1976     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3136      - -1977     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      117.145—
3142      - -1977     117.151;
                      117.999
3144      - -1977     72.001
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. III;
3145      - -1977     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. III;
3148      - -1977     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
3150      - -1977     50.060;
                      50.999
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3152      - -1977     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3153      - -1977     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3162      - -1977     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3164      - -1977     Ch. 78, Sched. IV
                      115.001—
3165      - -1977     115.020;
                      115.999
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3172      - -1977     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      92.026—
3180      - -1978     92.034;
                      92.999
3183      - -1978     34.036
3184      - -1978     Ch. 77, Sched. III
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3194      - -1978     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3199      - -1978     90.001;
                      90.061
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3200      - -1978     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3201      - -1978     96.017
3207      - -1979     Ch. 77, Sched. III
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3212      - -1979     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
3215      - -1979     116.016
3225      - -1979     32.124
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3228      - -1979     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3229      - -1979     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3233      - -1979     32.165
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3238      - -1979     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      32.166;
                      32.226;
3241      - -1979     156.003;
                      156.070;
                      156.076;
                      156.081
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3243      - -1979     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
3248      - -1980     Ch. 77, Sched. III
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3249      - -1980     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3250      - -1980     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3252      - -1980     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      38.075;
                      38.076;
3254      - -1980     38.078;
                      38.145;
                      38.190;
                      38.193
3256      - -1980     32.166;
                      32.226
3264      - -1981     Ch. 77, Sched. III
3265      - -1981     Ch. 78, Sched. VIII
3267      - -1981     32.165
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3268      - -1981     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
3269      - -1981     32.165
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3270      - -1981     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3284      - -1981     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
3288      - -1981     32.180—
                      32.187
3309      - -1982     30.009
3311      - -1982     Ch. 77, Sched. III
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3316      - -1982     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3328      - -1982     156.330—
                      156.335
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3334      - -1982     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3339      12-30-1982  34.008
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3347      - -1983     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3349      - -1983     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3360      - -1983     Ch. 77, Sched. III
3367      - -1983     156.365—
                      156.368
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3369      - -1984     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3373      - -1984     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3374      - -1984     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      111.065;
3375      - -1984     111.066;
                      111.074
3382      - -1984     38.040
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3386      - -1984     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
3390      - -1985     30.010
                      72.095;
3392      - -1985     72.096;
                      72.098
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3396      - -1985     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3397      - -1985     133.002
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3398      - -1985     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
3405      - -1985     96.999
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3406      - -1985     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3407      - -1985     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3408      - -1985     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3409      - -1985     38.115
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3413      - -1985     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3414      - -1985     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3417      - -1985     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3424      - -1986     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
3428      - -1986     32.165
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3439      - -1986     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3440      - -1986     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
3443      - -1986     32.168
3446      - -1986     Ch. 77, Sched. III
3449      - -1987     Ch. 78, Sched. III
3450      - -1987     156.350—
                      156.354
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3451      - -1987     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3452      - -1987     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3453      - -1987     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3456      - -1987     Ch. 77, Sched. III
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3457      - -1987     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3422      - -1988     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3469      - -1988     Ch. 78, Sched. IV
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3471      - -1988     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3472      - -1988     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3473      - -1988     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3474      - -1988     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      72.063;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3481      - -1988     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      94.001—
                      94.007;
                      94.020—
                      94.024;
3483      - -1989     94.035—
                      94.038;
                      94.050—
                      94.052;
                      94.999
3485      - -1989     130.008;
                      130.999
3486      - -1989     135.999
3487      - -1989     53.001—
                      53.007
3491      - -1989     Ch. 77, Sched. III
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3493      - -1989     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3501      - -1989     34.095—
                      34.098
                      91.060—
3502      - -1989     91.062;
                      91.999
                      91.063—
3503      - -1989     91.069;
                      91.999
                      117.115—
3504      - -1989     117.118;
                      117.999
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3505      - -1989     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
3506      - -1989     Ch. 77, Sched. III
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3507      - -1989     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3510      - -1989     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
3513      - -1990     93.030
3514      - -1990     Ch. 78, Sched. VII
3515      - -1990     Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3516      - -1990     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3522      - -1990     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3526      - -1990     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3532      - -1990     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3538      - -1991     32.169
3551      - -1992     72.098
3552      - -1992     Ch. 78, Sched. III
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3553      - -1992     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3554      - -1992     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3555      - -1992     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.125—
                      71.128;
                      71.999;
3557      - -1992     Ch. 77, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
3558      - -1992     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
3559      - -1992     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
3563      - -1992     39.001
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-92-0008 - -1992     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-93-0004 - -1993     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-93-0005 - -1993     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-93-0009 - -1993     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-93-0010 - -1993     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-93-0011 - -1993     38.040
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-93-0012 - -1994     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-93-0013 - -1993     71.016
                      71.999;
0-93-0021 - -1993     Ch. 77, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-93-0020 - -1993     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
0-93-0021 - -1993     Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      131.045—
0-93-0023 - -1993     131.047;
                      131.999
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-93-0024 - -1993     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      115.050—
0-93-0028 - -1994     115.062;
                      115.999
0-93-0029 - -1994     156.055—
                      156.057
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII;
0-94-0001 - -1994     Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
0-94-0002 - -1994     153.001—
                      153.007
                      111.140—
0-94-0006 - -1994     111.145;
                      111.999
0-94-0015 - -1994     38.043
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-94-0017 - -1994     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-94-0018 - -1994     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      92.045—
0-94-0026 - -1994     92.052;
                      92.999
0-94-0027 - -1994     92.025;
                      92.999
                      156.070;
0-95-0003 - -1995     Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II
0-95-0004 - -1995     33.006;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-95-0007 - -1995     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-95-0008 - -1995     97.158
0-95-0009 - -1995     38.043
0-95-0010 - -1995     90.048
                      93.075—
0-95-0014 - -1995     93.081;
                      93.999
0-95-0016 - -1995     30.010
                      156.070;
0-96-0003 - -1996     156.315—
                      156.318
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-96-0016 - -1996     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-97-0004 - -1997     131.031;
                      131.999
0-97-0010 - -1997     52.019
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-97-0013 - -1997     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-98-0003 - -1997     Ch. 78, Sched. VII
                      156.003;
                      156.010;
                      156.174;
0-98-0002 - -1998     156.189;
                      156.203;
                      156.249;
                      156.263
                      133.015—
                      133.018;
0-98-0003 - -1998     133.999;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. V;
0-98-0004 - -1998     Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-98-0013 - -1998     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-98-0014 - -1998     72.097
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-98-0019 10-5-1998   Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-98-0020 10-5-1998   Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-98-0022 11-30-1998  Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.070;
                      71.999;
0-98-0023 11-30-1998  Ch. 77, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      134.015—
0-98-0025 12-21-1998  134.017;
                      134.999
                      155.001—
                      155.006;
                      155.020;
                      155.021;
                      155.035—
                      155.046;
                      155.060—
                      155.063;
                      155.075;
                      155.076;
                      155.090—
                      155.093;
0-98-0026 12-21-1998  155.105—
                      155.109;
                      155.120—
                      155.122;
                      155.135;
                      155.150—
                      155.152;
                      155.168;
                      155.169;
                      155.180;
                      155.181;
                      155.195—
                      155.197;
                      155.999
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-99-0004 6-15-1999   Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-99-0005 6-15-1999   Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-99-0019 10-25-1999  Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
0-99-0023 12-1-1999   32.200—
                      32.210
                      30.001;
                      30.002;
                      30.007;
                      30.009;
0-99-0024 12-3-1999   30.010;
                      30.020;
                      38.191;
                      38.192;
                      39.024
0-99-0027 12-20-1999  40.001—
                      40.020
0-99-0028 12-30-1999  76.030;
                      76.999
0-99-0029 12-30-1999  38.197;
                      38.198
0-99-0030 12-30-1999  38.058
0-99-0031 12-30-1999  38.055
                      32.001—
                      32.004;
                      32.015—
                      32.018;
                      32.030—
0-00-0003 2-18-2000   32.034;
                      32.050—
                      32.058;
                      32.070—
                      32.074;
                      32.090—
                      32.096
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-00-0001 2-18-2000   Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-00-0011 5-8-2000    Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-00-0016 6-15-2000   70.999
0-00-0017 6-15-2000   39.002
0-00-0016 6-15-2000   156.186;
                      156.260
0-00-0019 9-11-2000   38.056
0-00-0024 10-30-2000  156.315
0-01-0017 - -2001     113.020;
                      113.21
0-01-0004 2-12-2001   112.015—
                      112.023
0-01-0005 3-1-2001    38.199
0-01-0006 3-1-2001    39.024
0-01-0008 4-11-2001   38.057
0-01-0009 4-11-2001   38.114
0-01-0010 4-11-2001   38.152
0-01-0011 4-11-2001   38.215
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-01-0014 5-30-2001   Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-01-0021 6-21-2001   93.097
0-01-0023 9-10-2001   32.001
                      156.380—
0-01-0024 9-10-2001   156.391;
                      156.999
0-01-0032 11-27-2001  39.024
0-01-0041 12-10-2001  38.113
0-01-0044 12-10-2001  39.003
0-01-0050 12-28-2001  38.220
                      156.405—
0-02-0009 - -2002     156.415;
                      156.999
0-02-0011 - -2002     39.024
0-02-0012 - -2002     99.013;
                      99.015
0-02-0014 - -2002     38.110
0-02-0016 - -2002     113.021
0-02-0017 - -2002     150.018;
                      150.020
0-02-0018 - -2002     90.101;
                      90.999
                      131.060;
0-02-0020 - -2002     131.061;
                      131.999
0-02-0023 - -2002     39.024
0-02-0026 - -2002     39.024
0-02-0036 - -2002     150.001—
                      150.020
0-02-0037 - -2002     150.006;
                      150.010
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-02-0038 - -2002     Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-02-0010 5-13-2002   34.008;
                      39.024
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-02-0027 9-9-2002    Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII
                      72.050;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-02-0029 9-9-2002    Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-02-0039 11-25-2002  Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-02-0043 12-12-2002  38.133
0-03-0021 - -2003     39.024
0-03-0026 - -2003     39.024
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-03-0027 - -2003     Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      33.002;
                      33.003;
0-03-0031 - -2003     33.036;
                      33.055;
                      33.056—
                      33.069
0-03-0035 - -2003     39.024
0-04-0003 2-9-2003    39.024
0-03-0010 2-10-2003   156.381
0-03-0014 3-10-2003   39.024
0-03-0017 3-24-2003   Ch. 77, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-04-0004 2-20-2004   37.020—
                      37.028
0-04-0005 2-20-2004   37.001—
                      37.006
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-04-0011 5-5-2004    Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
04-0011   5-5-2004     
                      71.999;
0-04-0028 6-28-2004   Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-04-0050 12-13-2004  30.001
0-04-0052 12-16-2004  39.024
0-05-0003 1-24-2005   31.031
05-0003   1-24-2005   30.037
0-05-0004 3-14-2005   97.152
0-05-0010 4-25-2005   38.150
                      39.020—
0-05-0013 7-25-2005   39.024;
                      39.999
0-05-0019 6-13-2005   37.020—
                      37.028
0-05-0020 6-13-2005   37.001—
                      37.008
0-05-0022 7-11-2005   38.131
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-05-0024 8-8-2005    Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-05-0028 8-22-2005   Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-05-0030 9-26-2005   39.002
                      30.001;
                      30.007;
0-06-0005 3-13-2006   30.009;
                      30.020;
                      39.024
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. V;
0-06-0013 3-27-2006   Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      95.130—
0-06-0014 5-8-2006    95.135;
                      95.999
0-06-0016 5-8-2006    38.111
0-06-0017 5-8-2006    38.112
0-06-0018 5-8-2006    37.040—
                      37.044
0-06-0011 6-12-2006   34.021
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-06-0023 6-12-2006   Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-06-0024 6-26-2006   131.031;
                      131.999
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-06-0033 7-10-2006   Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-06-0037 8-14-2006   71.070
0-06-0038 9-25-2006   39.002
0-06-0043 10-10-2006  38.132
0-06-0046 11-13-2006  74.007
0-07-0003 2-26-2007   38.202
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-07-0008 4-9-2007    Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
                      71.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I;
0-07-0012 5-29-2007   Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. VII
0-07-0015 6-11-2007   92.071;
                      92.999
                      Ch. 78, Sched. I;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. II;
0-07-0014 8-27-2007   Ch. 78, Sched. V;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VI;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. VII;
                      Ch. 78, Sched. IX
0-07-0030 9-24-2007   32.124
                      90.120—
0-08-0014 - -2008     90.123;
                      90.999
0-08-0002 1-28-2008   111.125—
                      111.127
                      54.001—
                      54.004;
                      54.015—
                      54.020;
                      54.035—
0-08-0005 3-24-2008   54.038;
                      54.050—
                      54.057;
                      54.070—
                      54.077;
                      54.999
0-08-0011 5-12-2008   156.078
0-08-0013 5-12-2008   39.024
0-08-0001 7-9-2008    32.059;
                      32.075
0-08-0015 7-28-2008   134.003
                      156.082;
                      156.215—
0-08-0020 9-22-2008   156.231;
                      156.431—
                      156.433;
                      156.999
                      116.999;
0-08-0027 10-27-2008  117.060—
                      117.063;
                      117.999
0-08-0031 11-24-2008  111.076
0-08-0032 12-8-2008   72.060
0-08-0035 1-12-2009   39.024
09-0002   2-9-2009    32.124
09-0008   4-27-2009   156.445—
                      156.457
09-0015   7-13-2009   156.076
                      113.022—
09-0020   9-28-2009   113.026;
                      113.999
09-0026   12-28-2009  55.999
10-0007   6-28-2010   Ch. 77, Sched. I
10-0014   10-12-2010  38.195
10-0015   10-12-2010  Ch. 78, Sched. VII
10-0017   11-22-2010  32.225
10-0026   12-27-2010  30.037
11-0009   - -2011     156.076;
                      156.125
10-0018   2-14-2011   55.047;
                      55.999
11-0006   2-28-2011   37.029
11-0011   7-25-2011   155.165—
                      155.167
11-0013   7-25-2011   38.060
                      38.092;
                      38.094;
                      38.117;
                      38.146;
11-0014   7-25-2011   38.153;
                      38.155;
                      38.156;
                      38.173;
                      38.194
11-0016   7-25-2011   134.002
                      156.098;
                      156.113;
11-0007   8-8-2011    156.128;
                      156.143;
                      156.158
11-0018   9-12-2011   Ch. 78, Sched. VII
11-0023   9-26-2011   39.036
11-0025   10-11-2011  Ch. 77, Sched. VI
                      38.077;
                      38.079;
                      38.151;
                      38.154;
                      38.170;
11-0037   12-26-2011  38.171;
                      38.174;
                      38.200;
                      38.204;
                      38.217;
                      38.218
                      110.001—
                      110.006;
                      110.020—
                      110.025;
                      110.040—
                      110.046;
11-0040   1-9-1012    110.060—
                      110.064;
                      110.075—
                      110.080;
                      110.095—
                      110.099;
                      110.999
                      110.001—
                      110.006;
                      110.020—
                      110.025;
                      110.040—
                      110.046;
12-0002   3-1-2012    110.060—
                      110.064;
                      110.075—
                      110.080;
                      110.095—
                      110.099;
                      110.999
12-0007   3-1-2012    38.192
12-0004   3-12-2012   133.004;
                      133.999
12-0005   4-9-2012    39.035
12-0011   4-9-2012    32.124
12-0013   4-9-2012    39.002
12-0014   4-9-2012    30.009
12-0009   4-23-2012   34.037
12-0017   6-15-2012   70.999
12-0018   6-15-2012   39.002
                      110.001—
                      110.006;
                      110.020—
                      110.025;
                      110.040—
                      110.046;
12-0019   6-15-2012   110.060—
                      110.064;
                      110.075—
                      110.080;
                      110.095—
                      110.099;
                      110.999
12-0022   6-25-2012   156.076
12-0021   6-26-2012   Ch. 78, Sched. IV
O-12-0024 9-24-2012   117.001;
                      117.012
12-0025   9-24-2012   Ch. 77, Sched. III
12-0031   12-10-2012  38.118;
                      38.216
12-0038   12-26-2012  39.035
                      118.001—
                      118.003;
                      118.015—
                      118.023;
13-0001   2-11-2013   118.035—
                      118.041;
                      118.055—
                      118.062;
                      118.999
13-0004   2-11-2013   37.009
13-0005   4-8-2013    33.056
2013-0009 4-8-2013    34.008
13-0012   5-28-2013   33.060;
                      33.061
13-0016   6-10-2013   135.008;
                      135.999
13-0019   7-22-2013   38.059
13-0020   7-22-2013   38.091
                      132.055—
13-0021   8-26-2013   132.059;
                      132.999
13-0024   9-9-2013    117.075;
                      117.076
                      114.001;
13-0030   10-14-2013  114.004—
                      114.006
13-0031   10-14-2013  150.010
13-0039   12-23-2013  32.001;
                      32.035
13-0037   12-23-2013  39.035
13-0040   1-13-2014   38.172
13-0041   1-13-2014   38.196
14-0019   8-11-2014   38.130
14-0020   8-11-2014   38.175
14-0021   8-11-2014   38.149
14-0027   10-13-2014  110.097
14-0032   12-8-2014   38.148
15-0012   8-24-2015   Ch. 78, Sched. VII
15-0026   11-23-2015  38.119
                      114.001;
15-0025   12-14-2015  114.005;
                      150.008
15-0027   12-14-2015  32.227
15-0028   12-28-2015  34.040
                      37.002;
                      37.003;
                      37.006;
15-0030   12-28-2015  37.007;
                      37.020;
                      37.023;
                      37.026
15-0029   12-31-2015  39.035
16-0001   2-25-2016   30.022
16-0002   5-23-2016   156.076
16-0005   7-11-2016   39.035
16-0006   7-25-2016   Ch. 78, Sched. VII
16-0009   10-10-2016  Ch. 77, Sched. III;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. IV
16-0011   10-24-2016  93.018
16-0014   10-24-2016  38.201
16-0013   11-14-2016  113.022
16-0015   11-14-2016  38.090
16-0019   12-27-2016  31.031
17-0001   2-27-2017   156.290—
                      156.301
17-0002   3-15-2017   Ch. 78, Sched. VII
17-0004   4-10-2017   Ch. 78, Sched. VI
17-0014   6-12-2017   35.012
17-0010   6-26-2017   39.050—
                      39.060
17-0011   7-10-2017   38.116
17-0018   7-24-2017   38.219
17-0031   12-20-2017  38.147
17-0032   12-20-2017  38.093
17-0033   12-20-2017  38.176
18-0002   2-12-2018   Ch. 78, Sched. IX
                      51.001—
                      51.005;
                      51.020; 52.021;
                      51.035—
                      51.040;
                      51.055—
                      51.057;
                      51.070;
18-0017   11-13-2018  51.071;
                      51.085—
                      51.092;
                      51.105—
                      51.121;
                      51.135—
                      51.147;
                      51.160—
                      51.165;
                      51.999
18-0021   11-26-2018  Ch. 78, Sched. VII
19-0001   3-25-2019   156.077
19-0006   4-22-2019    
19-0010   7-8-2019    156.077
19-0012   7-8-2019    Ch. 78, Sched. III
19-0008   7-22-2019   134.030—
                      134.036
19-0016   8-26-2019   70.999;
                      Ch. 77, Sched. I
19-0018   9-9-2019    96.018
19-0029   12-26-2019  34.047
20-0003   4-27-2020   39.035
20-0010   7-2-2020    30.023
20-0013   8-24-2020   52.003;
                      52.999
20-0026   10-12-2020  30.024
21-0005   3-8-2021    135.006
21-0031   5-10-2021   38.221
21-0043   6-28-2021   Ch. 77, Sched. I
21-0044   6-28-2021   Ch. 77, Sched. I
21-0045   7-12-2021   30.001
21-0048   7-12-2021   Ch. 78, Sched. VII
21-0055   8-11-2021   38.015—
                      38.026
21-0072   9-22-2021   Ch. 78, Sched. IX
21-0077   10-13-2021  39.035
21-0071   10-15-2021  156.083
21-0082   11-10-2021  Ch. 77, Sched. I
22-0004   2-23-2022   39.037
                      37.055—
22-0005   2-23-2022   37.061;
                      37.999
22-0021   4-27-2022   90.011
22-0027   5-11-2022   38.015—38.036
22-0042   9-14-2022   30.009
                      154.001—
                      154.005;
                      154.020—
                      154.027;
22-0051   12-16-2022  154.040—
                      154.045;
                      154.060—
                      154.064;
                      154.999
22-0053   12-29-2022  12.01
23-0009   4-26-2023   Ch. 77, Schd. VIII
23-0012   5-24-2023   Ch. 77, Schd. VIII
23-0013   5-24-2023   Ch. 77, Schd. I
23-0019   6-14-2023   Ch. 77, Schd. VIII
23-0034   10-11-2023  38.222
23-0036   10-11-2023  38.095
                      100.01—
23-0037   11-27-2023  100.10;
                      100.99
                     
 
