ELBERFELD, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-23-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ROSTER OF OFFICIALS
of the
TOWN of ELBERFELD
Town Council
                    
Martin Walters, Council President
Tracee Matthews, Council member
Jeff Valiant, Council member
                    
Officials
                    
Stacey Kruse        Clerk-Treasurer
Dennis Miller       Town Manager
Officer Lloyd Jones Town Marshal
Raymond P. Dudlo    Town Attorney
                    
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town (as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections) shall be known and designated as the “Elberfeld
Town Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances,”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions hereof compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code, unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification in any official
publication to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent
or context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Warrick County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person or persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Elberfeld, North Carolina.
      TOWNSHIP. Greer Township.
      STATE. State of Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable, as provided in division (B)
above, does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality of any government and that name designation is
incorrectly stated, on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity, then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture, or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture, or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment, but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
      Example: Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
      Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (B)   The liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties, or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize
highway rights-of-way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted; the
acceptance, establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid, in all respects, as if this code had not
been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Municipal building named
   
11.02   Election at large
§ 11.01 MUNICIPAL BUILDING NAMED.
   The Municipal Building shall be known as the “Duane E. Erwin Municipal
Building.”
(Res. 2022-01, passed 3-12-2022)
§ 11.02 ELECTION AT LARGE.
   (A)   The town has previously adopted an ordinance abolishing legislative
body districts pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-4.1(h).
   (B)   The Town Council desires that all members of the legislative body in
the town continue to be elected at large by the voters of the whole town.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall file a copy of this provision
with the Circuit Court Clerk of the county not later than 30 days after this
provision codified herein is adopted.
(Ord. 2012-4, passed 7-16-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-2-4.1(h)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Terms; election
   
30.02   President of Council duties
   
30.03   Electronic meeting policy
§ 30.01 TERMS; ELECTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-2.7(c)(1), the Town Council members and the
Clerk-Treasurer, who will be elected in the municipal election of 2015, shall
serve a term of three years, commencing January 1, 2016.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-2.7(c)(2), the successors to the Town Council
members and Clerk-Treasurer elected pursuant to division (A) above shall be
chosen at the second general election following the municipal election of 2015
and shall, thereafter, serve a term of four years.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 3-10-7-2.7(c)(3), the municipal elections conducted
after 2015 for town offices shall be held during a general election.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 4-22-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 3-10-7-2.7(c)(1), 3-10-7-2.7(c)(2), and 3-10-7-
2.7(c)(3)
§ 30.02 PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The President of the Town Council shall have the ability to
authorize expenditures in an amount as shall be set by the Town Council from
time to time for the town, the sewage works, the water utility, and the Fire
Department without the prior approval of the Town Council.
      (2)   To authorize an expenditure pursuant to division (A)(1) above, the
Town Council President shall submit a voucher to the Town Clerk-Treasurer for
the expenditure, and the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a check for payment of the
expenditure.
      (3)   All expenditures authorized by the Town Council President, as set
forth in division (A)(1) above, shall be subsequently approved by the Town
Council at the next regularly scheduled Town Council meeting.
   (B)   (1)   Authorization. The President of the Town Council is hereby
authorized and confirmed to have the authority to execute any INDOT agreements
and all other documents related thereto and all documents related to any INDOT
Grant Programs for and on behalf of and to bind the town.
      (2)   Ratification. The Town Council hereby ratifies all prior agreements
and associated documents executed by the President of the Town Council prior to
the effective date of the resolution adopted herein.
(Ord. 2009-4, passed 7-10-2009; Res. 2021-2, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 30.03 ELECTRONIC MEETING POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The provisions of the House Enrolled Act No. 1437, including
definitions, apply to this section.
      (2)   This section shall be known as the electronic meetings policy of
the Town Council and applies to the Town Council and any board, commission, or
committee that takes official action upon public business and whose members are
appointed by the Town Council and/or the Town Council President.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to division (C) and (E) below, any member may
participate in a meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (1)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (2)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll-call
vote.
   (C)   (1) At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a
meeting at which a member will participate by means of electronic
communication.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than a 50% of the meetings in a
calendar year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member’s
electronic participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend, in person, at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication,
unless the member’s absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (D)   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member participates
by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent.
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   No member may participate by means of electronic communication in a
meeting at which final action is attempted regarding any of the following:
      (1)   Adopt a budget;
      (2)   Make a reduction in personnel;
      (3)   Initiate a referendum;
      (4)   Impose or increase a fee;
      (5)   Impose or increase a penalty;
      (6)   Exercise the Town Council’s power of eminent domain; or
      (7)   Establish, impose, raise, or renew a tax.
   (F)   If a disaster emergency is declared by the governor under I.C. 10-14-
3-12, or a local disaster emergency is declared by the Town Council President
under I.C. 10-14-3-29, members are not required to be physically present for a
meeting until the emergency is terminated. During such an emergency, members
may participate in a meeting by any means of electronic communication, provided
that:
      (1)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person;
      (2)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting unless
the meeting is an executive session;
      (3)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with division
(D) above; and
      (4)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 2022-06, passed - -)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Town Marshal
   
31.02   Utility Clerk
   
31.03   Police reserve
   
31.04   Municipal hours of operations
Policies
   
31.15   Conflict of interest; nepotism; contracting
   
31.16   Health insurance
   
31.17   Internal control standards
   
31.18   Adoption of Title VI Implementation Plan
   
31.19   Credit cards
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 TOWN MARSHAL.
   (A)   Transition from part-time to full-time. As of the effective date of
this section, the Town Marshal position shall be a full-time position.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   The primary duty and responsibility for the Town Marshal will be to
maintain the public safety by enforcing the local and state laws and ordinances
of the town. The Town Marshal will be responsible for all necessary and related
functions to fulfill these duties and responsibilities.
      (2)   The Town Marshal shall be hired and appointed by the Town Council
and will operate under the supervision of the Town Council.
      (3)   The Town Council shall establish the salary of the Town Marshal as
part of the annual salary ordinance of the town.
   (C)   Deputy town marshals.
      (1)   The Town Council may hire and appoint deputy town marshals to
assist the Town Marshal in the performance of the Town Marshal’s duties and
responsibilities as it deem appropriate.
      (2)   The Town Council shall establish the salary of the deputy town
marshal as part of the annual salary ordinance, as it deem appropriate.
(Ord. 2022-6, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 31.02 UTILITY CLERK.
   (A)   Creation of Utility Clerk position. As of the effective date of the
ordinances codified herein, there is created the position of Town Utility
Clerk.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   (a)   The primary duty and responsibility for the Utility Clerk
will be the billing and collection of utility fees for the Water Utility and
the Sewer Department. The Utility Clerk will be responsible for all necessary
and related functions to fulfill these duties and responsibilities.
         (b)   The Town Council shall establish a detailed list of the job
duties and responsibilities of the Utility Clerk.
      (2)   The Utility Clerk will be hired and appointed by the Town Council
and will be under the supervision of the Town Council.
      (3)   The Town Council shall establish the salary of the Utility Clerk as
part of the annual salary ordinance of the town.
   (C)   Removal of Clerk-Treasurer as the Utility Clerk.
      (1)   As of the effective date of this section, the Clerk-Treasurer of
the town is removed as the Utility Clerk for the town and will no longer have
duties and responsibilities for the billing and collection of fees for the
Water Utility and for the Sewer Department.
      (2)   This section does not affect or change the statutory duties imposed
on the Clerk-Treasurer under I.C. 36-5-6-6.
      (3)   The Town Council shall establish accounting and reporting
procedures for the Utility Clerk necessary to allow the Clerk-Treasurer to
perform the Clerk-Treasurer’s statutory duties under I.C. 36-5-6-6.
   (D)   Deputy utility clerks.
      (1)   The Town Council may hire and appoint deputy utility clerks to
assist the Utility Clerk in the performance of the Utility Clerk’s duties and
responsibilities.
      (2)   The Town Council shall establish the salary of the deputy utility
clerks as part of the annual salary ordinance.
   (E)   Deputy town clerks.
      (1)   The Utility Clerk and deputy utility clerks may also be authorized
by the Town Council to work as deputy town clerks. The Clerk-Treasurer has
final discretion to make the appointment.
      (2)   The Utility Clerk or deputy utility clerks will be under the
supervision of the Clerk-Treasurer for all work performed as deputy town
clerks.
      (3)   All work performed as part of the duties and responsibilities as
Utility Clerk or deputy utility clerks shall be under the supervision of the
Town Council.
(Ord. 2011-3, passed 6-20-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-5-6-6
§ 31.03 POLICE RESERVE.
   (A)   The town’s police reserve is hereby created pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-
20.
   (B)   No more than three police reserve officers shall be in the force at
any time.
   (C)   The Town Police Department shall propose rules of conduct and
standards for training of the town’s police reserves. Such rules shall be
subject to approval by the Town Council.
   (D)   Appointment as a police reserve shall be by the Town Council. No
individual shall be appointed as a police reserve until such individual shall
have completed the training requirement prescribed by rules of the Department.
   (E)   Police reserve officers shall be covered for medical treatment and
burial expense, as provided by the State Worker’s Compensation and Occupational
Diseases Laws, for any covered claim which arises from the individual’s service
as a police reserve and shall be provided life insurance, at the town’s cost,
in an amount not to exceed that amount provided for regular town police
officers.
   (F)   All necessary uniforms and equipment for each police reserve officer
shall be provided by the town.
   (G)   Police reserves are not members of the Department within the meaning
of I.C. 36-8-3-4, and as such, they serve as a police reserve at the will of
the Town Council and are not entitled to any of the processes described in that
statute.
   (H)   The uniform for a police reserve shall be distinguished from a regular
member of the Department by including the notation “Police Reserve” on the
badge issued to such officer and the notation “Reserve” on the shoulder patch
worn on the uniform.
(Ord. 2012-1, passed -18-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-8-3-4 and 36-8-3-20
§ 31.04 MUNICIPAL HOURS OF OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Regular utility office hours are to be set as published on utility
bills: Monday, Wednesday and Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. (noon).
   (B)   Town utility workers’ regular hours to be set as: Monday through
Friday, 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (12:00 p.m. to 1:00 p.m. observed as lunch).
   (C)   Marshal’s office hours are to be set by the Marshal for the Marshal,
deputy marshals, and reserve.
   (D)   (1)   Holidays to be observed are as follows:
         (a)   New Year’s Day;
         (b)   Martin Luther King Jr. Day;
         (c)   President’s Day;
         (d)   Good Friday;
         (e)   Memorial Day;
         (f)   Fourth of July;
         (g)   Labor Day;
         (h)   Veteran’s Day;
         (i)   Thanksgiving Day; and
         (j)   Christmas Day.
      (2)   The day following Thanksgiving, the utility office shall be closed;
town utility workers will have the option to work or take off without pay.
   (E)   To qualify for full-time status, employees shall work an average of
37.5 hours per week. Part-time employees shall work as set by department
manager.
(Ord. 2012-7, passed 12-17-2012)
POLICIES
§ 31.15 CONFLICT OF INTEREST; NEPOTISM; CONTRACTING.
   (A)   The Town Nepotism Policy is hereby established, effective July 1,
2012, regarding minimum requirements regarding employment of relatives.
   (B)   Any individual who is employed by the town on July 1, 2012, is not
subject to this section unless the individual has a break in employment with
the town. An individual who is absent from the workplace while on paid or
unpaid leave, including paid time off, family medical leave, ADA leave, or
worker’s compensation or an individual whose employment with the town is
terminated followed by immediate re-employment by the town, without loss of
payroll time, shall not be considered as a terminated employee under this
section.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, the performance of the duties of a
precinct election officer (as defined in I.C. 3-5-2-40.1) that are imposed by
I.C. Title 3 or a volunteer firefighter is not considered employment by the
town.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DIRECT LINE OF SUPERVISION. An elected officer or employee who is in a
position to affect the terms and conditions of another individual’s employment,
including making decisions about work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement, or performance evaluation. The term does not include the
responsibilities of the executive, legislative, or fiscal body of the town, as
provided by law, to make decisions regarding salary ordinances, budgets, or
personnel policies of the town.
      EMPLOYED. An individual who is employed by the town on a full-time, part-
time, temporary, intermittent, or hourly basis. The term does not include an
individual who holds only an elected office. The term includes an individual
who is a party to an employment contract with the unit.
      MEMBER OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT. The Fire Chief or a firefighter appointed
to the Department.
      MEMBER OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Police Chief or a police officer
appointed to the Department.
      RELATIVE. A spouse, a parent, or stepparent; a child or stepchild; a
brother, sister, stepbrother, or stepsister; a niece or nephew; an aunt or
uncle; or a daughter-in-law or son-in-law. For purposes of this section, an
ADOPTED CHILD of an individual is treated as a natural child of the individual
and the terms BROTHER and SISTER include a brother or sister by the half-blood.
   (E)   The annual report filed by the town with the State Board of Accounts
under I.C. 5-11-13-1 must include a statement by the executive of the town
stating that the town has implemented a policy under this statute.
   (F)   Individuals who are relatives may not be employed by the town in any
position that results in one relative being in the direct line of supervision
of the other relative.
   (G)   (1)   This section applies to an individual who is employed by the
town on the date the individual’s relative begins serving a term of an elected
office of the town and is not otherwise exempt from the application of this
section.
      (2)   Such individual may remain employed by the town and maintain the
individual’s position or rank even if the individual’s employment would
otherwise violate this section However, such individual may not be promoted to
a new position unless that new position is within the merit ranks in the case
of an individual who is a member of the Merit Police Department.
   (H)   This section does not abrogate or affect an employment contract with
the town to which an individual is a party that is in effect on the date the
individual’s relative begins serving a term in an elected office of the town.
   (I)   Each elected officer of the town shall annually certify, in writing,
subject to the penalties for perjury, that the officer has not violated this
section. An officer shall submit the certification to the executive and Town
Clerk-Treasurer not later than December 31 of each year.
   (J)   The town finds that a single member of the Town Council or any other
governing body, such as the Park Board, cannot act for the Council or governing
body to make work assignments, determine compensation, solve grievances, cause
advancements, or conduct performance evaluations without prior authority of a
majority of the Council or governing body, and therefore, without such
authorization, such member will not be considered as in the direct line of
supervision of any employee.
   (K)   This section also establishes minimum requirements regarding
contracting with the town by an individual who is a relative of an elected
official of the town or a business entity that is wholly or partially owned by
a relative of an elected official.
   (L)   The town may enter into or renew a contract for the procurement of
goods and services or a contract for public works with an individual who is a
relative of an elected official or a business entity that is wholly or
partially owned by a relative of an elected official only if the requirements
of this section are satisfied and the elected official does not violate I.C.
35-44.1-1-4.
   (M)   (1)   The town may enter into or renew a contract with an individual
or business entity described in division (L) above if:
         (a)   The elected official files with the Town Clerk-Treasurer a full
disclosure, which must:
            1.   Be in writing;
            2.   Describe the contract or purchase to be made by the town;
            3.   Describe the relationship that the elected official has to the
individual or business entity that contracts with the town or from whom the
town purchases;
            4.   Be affirmed under penalty of perjury;
            5.   Be submitted to the Town Council and be accepted by it in a
public meeting prior to final action on the contract or purchase; and
            6.   Be filed not later than 15 days after final action on the
contract or purchase with:
               a.   The State Board of Accounts; and
               b.   The Clerk of the County Circuit Court.
         (b)   The Town Council:
            1.   Adopts a certified statement that the contract amount or
purchase price was the lowest amount or price bid or offered; or
            2.   Adopts a certified statement of the reasons why the vendor or
contractor was selected if it was not the lowest quoter or bidder.
         (c)   The town has satisfied any other requirements under I.C. 5-22 or
I.C. 36-1-12; and
         (d)   An elected official shall also comply with the disclosure
provisions of I.C. 3 35-44.1-1- 4, if applicable.
      (2)   This division (M) does not affect the initial term of a contract in
existence at the time the term of office of the elected official of the unit
begins.
   (N)   Each elected officer of the town shall annually certify in writing,
subject to the penalties for perjury, that the officer is in compliance with
this section. An officer shall submit the certification to the executive and
the Clerk-Treasurer of the unit not later than December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 2012-2, passed 6-18-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. Title 3, 3-5-2-40.1, 5-11-13-1, 5-22, 35-44-1-
3, and 36-1-12
§ 31.16 HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (A)   The town shall pay the sum in an amount as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time per month for any full-time employee or employee, as
defined by I.C. 5-10-8-1, for health insurance.
   (B)   It is the intention of the town that the sum expended hereunder is not
subject to any federal or state taxes but is the town contribution to purchase
health insurance for such employee, with the employee paying the difference in
premium for such coverage.
   (C)   Any employee electing coverage under this section shall notify the
Clerk-Treasurer annually of the identity of the health insurance carrier
providing the coverage, the total monthly premium for such coverage, and
whether the employee, the employee and spouse, or employee and family are
covered by the policy. The policy must be issued to the employee and not a
spouse for the town’s payment to occur.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 1-22-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 5-10-8-1
§ 31.17 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adoption of internal control standards. The Town Council hereby adopts
the internal control standards developed by the State Board of Accounts, as
published in the Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political
Subdivisions (“minimum internal control standards”), as may be amended from
time to time, as the applicable minimum internal control standards for the
town.
   (B)   Oversight body. The Town Council shall act as the oversight body under
the minimum internal control standards to oversee, monitor, and ensure that the
minimum internal controls are implemented and followed by the town and all of
its elected officials, appointed officials, and employees.
   (C)   Management. The term MANAGEMENT, as used in the minimum control
standards, shall refer to the Town Council, the Clerk-Treasurer, and any
additional officers or employees identified by the Town Council as being
responsible for designing and implementing controls and control activities for
their department.
   (D)   Training of personnel. The Clerk-Treasurer shall ensure that personnel
shall receive training concerning the minimum internal control standards, as
required by I.C. 5-11-12-7. For purposes of this section, PERSONNEL shall be as
defined in I.C. 5-11-1-27(c) and shall include existing personnel and future
hires. Training shall be documented on the internal control training
certificate form located in the Appendix to the Uniform Internal Control
Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions.
   (E)   Implementation. The Clerk-Treasurer and the Town Council shall work
together to review existing internal control policies and procedures in use in
each office and department of the town and to modify current internal control
policies and procedures and/or develop and implement new internal control
policies and procedures as necessary to ensure compliance with the minimum
internal control standards. The Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council shall review
all town internal control policies and procedures no less frequently than
annually to ensure continued compliance with the minimum internal control
standards. All elected officials, appointed officials, and employees of the
town are hereby directed to abide by and to cooperate fully in the
implementation and operation of the internal control system of the town set
forth herein.
   (F)   Materiality threshold.
      (1)   The Town Council establishes the following materiality policy in
accordance with I.C. 5-11-1-10, 5-11-1-21, and 5-11-1-27. MATERIALITY is hereby
defined as $200 per occurrence. If one occurrence of a loss or shortage or
other irregularity is equal or greater than $200, it must be reported to the
State Board of Accounts. MATERIALITY is not limited to defalcations or
suspicious activity involving only cash or cash transactions.
      (2)   If supplies, equipment, or other fixed assets belonging to the town
are suspected of being misappropriated or stolen or used in a manner not
authorized by town officials and the value of those supplies, equipment, or
fixed assets in an amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to
time, that misuse or series of misuse should be reported; that is not to say
that if a loss or shortage is less than that set amount it should be ignored.
If there is a series of events within the same office or department that
appears to be a structuring event to defraud or misappropriate town funds or
property, that event or series of events should be reported to the State Board
of Accounts.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 6-21-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 5-11-1-10, 5-11-1-21, 5-11-1-27, and 5-11-1-27
(c)
§ 31.18 ADOPTION OF TITLE VI IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.
   (A)   The town’s Title VI Implementation Plan, 2022, is approved and adopted
by reference as if set forth in full herein.
   (B)   The plan and this section shall be made accessible at the Town Hall.
   (C)   If any provision of this plan is not enforceable under the provisions
of Title VI, then that provision alone shall be deemed void, and the remaining
policy of Title VI shall be controlling. All other provisions shall remain in
full force and effect until otherwise deemed contradictory.
   (D)   This plan is effective immediately upon the adoption of the majority
of the Town Council.
(Res. 2022-4, passed 4-19-2022)
§ 31.19 CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   The use of credit cards by town officers and employees for the
purchase of needed business items or for payment of town business expenses is
authorized as provided herein.
   (B)   The Town Council shall determine which credit card(s) may be acquired
by the town and which town officers and employees are to be allowed to use
which credit cards(s).
   (C)   Credit cards may not be used by any employee or officer for payment of
personal non-town business expenses; rather, they may be used only for expenses
necessarily incurred for the operation of the town.
   (D)   Any officer or employee that uses a town credit card shall provide the
Clerk-Treasurer with detailed receipts substantiating the charge. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall verify that the use was for properly authorized town business
and that the expense charged to the card is accurate and payable. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall pay all credit card invoices within the grace period so as to
avoid interest charges and late fees.
   (E)   All users of town credit card(s) shall take all measures to ensure the
security of the credit card and credit card number. Misuse of the town credit
card or failure to provide proper documentation or authorization for purchases
may result in disciplinary action and/or personal liability for charges made. A
lost or stolen credit card should be reported to the Clerk-Treasurer
immediately.
(Ord. 2017-2, passed 2-21-2017)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
Funds
   
32.01   Police Department Grant or Donation Fund
   
32.02   Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund
   
32.03   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
32.04   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
32.05   Yard Sale Fund
   
32.06   Park and Recreation Donation Fund
Fixed Asset Capitalization Policy
   
32.20   Definitions
   
32.21   Land
   
32.22   Machinery and equipment
   
32.23   Buildings
   
32.24   Improvements other than buildings
   
32.25   Recording and accounting
   
32.26   Safeguarding of assets
FUNDS
§ 32.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT GRANT OR DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Town Police Department Grant or
Donation Fund.
   (B)   The source of revenue for this fund will be grants or donations.
   (C)   The funds accumulated in the Town Police Department Grant or Donation
Fund will be used for community relations purposes of the Town Police
Department or any other valid Police Department purpose.
   (D)   The Town Police Department Grant or Donation Fund is a non-reverting
fund that will not revert to the General Fund at the end of the fiscal year.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 32.02 LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTINUING EDUCATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Town Local Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Program.
   (B)   There is hereby established the Town Local Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Fund.
   (C)   The Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education Program and the Local
Law Enforcement Continuing Education Fund shall be funded by revenues received
from fees received pursuant to I.C. 35-47-2-3 and other fees and revenue
sources, as authorized by I.C. 5-2-8-2.
   (D)   The funds accumulated in the Town Local Law Enforcement Continuing
Education Fund shall be used for the Local Law Enforcement Continuing Education
Program and all other uses as set forth in I.C. 5-2-8-2.
(Ord. 2007-5, passed 5-21-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 5-2-8-2 and 35-47-2-3
§ 32.03 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Town Cumulative Capital Development
Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy will be imposed and the revenues from
the levy will be retained in the Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund.
   (C)   The maximum rate of levy under division (B) above will not exceed:
      (1)   Assessed valuation for 1993: (.05) per $100;
      (2)   Assessed valuation for 1994: (.10) per $100; and
      (3)   Assessed valuation for 1995: (.15) per $100.
   (D)   The funds accumulated in the Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund
may be used for all purposes set forth in I.C. 36-9-15.5.
   (E)   Funds accumulated in the Town Cumulative Capital Development Fund may
be spent for purposes other than the purposes stated above, if the purpose is
to protect the public health, welfare, or safety in an emergency situation
which demands immediate action. Money may be spent under the authority of this
section only after the Town Council President issues a declaration that the
public health, welfare, or safety is in immediate danger that requires the
expenditure of money in the Fund.
   (F)   This Fund takes effect upon approval of the State Board of Tax
Commissioners.
(Ord. 1992-4, passed - -; Ord. 2019-3, passed 3-19-2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-9-15.5
§ 32.04 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the following fund for purposes of receipt
of payments made to the town in accordance with the ARP: 177-ARP Coronavirus
Local Fiscal Recovery Fund (the “ARP Grant Fund”).
   (B)   All monies received pursuant to the ARP shall be receipted into the
ARP Grant Fund established pursuant to division (A) above.
   (C)   Subject to proper appropriation by the Town Council, monies received
and held in the fund pursuant to this section shall be utilized as allowed
pursuant to § 603(c)(1) of the ARP, being 42 U.S.C. § 603(c)(1) and regulations
and in accordance with guidance received from the United States Department of
Treasury (“Treasury Department”) and SBOA.
   (D)   Prior to expenditure of monies received and held in the fund, the Town
Council shall develop a written plan for the expenditure of said monies. The
plan may be amended from time to time upon majority vote of the Town Council.
   (E)   This section may be amended in the future as additional guidance is
received from the Treasury Department and SBOA.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 6-22-2021; Ord. 2021-4, passed 8-17-2021)
§ 32.05 YARD SALE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the 2301-Yard Sale Fund. The purpose of
this plan is to provide a directive of the funds collected for the Town Yard
Sale received and maintained by a town resident, Ashley Schaefer, who provided
that total to the town, which will utilize said funds for appropriate expenses
to manage and operate the Town Yard Sale as deemed appropriate by the town.
This plan shall be adopted by the Town Council on the date hereby listed below
and may be modified from time to time by the Town Council as the Town Council
deems necessary. The Town Council previously approved prior appropriations and
payments relating to the 2023 Town Yard Sale.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer (the “Administrator”) shall ensure funds are
disbursed in the correct manner and in accordance with this plan adopted by the
Town Council and shall answer directly to the Councilmembers with respect to
the use and application of the funds. The Administrator shall follow the town’s
Internal Controls and Best Practice Documents, adopted by the Town Council and
on file in the town hall. The Administrator shall also be responsible for the
recording of any amendments to this plan adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 1-23-2024)
§ 32.06 PARK AND RECREATION DONATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the 2302-Park and Recreation Donation
Fund.
   (B)   The purpose of this plan is to provide a directive of the funds
collected for the town’s park and recreation purposes received and maintained
by the town, which will utilize said funds for appropriate expenses to manage
and operate park and recreation initiatives, including, but not limited to, the
installation, repair, maintenance, and ancillary expenses for the benefit of
the town’s park and recreation endeavors, as deemed appropriate by the town.
This plan shall be adopted by the Town Council on the date hereby listed below
and may be modified from time to time by the Town Council as the Town Council
deems necessary.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer (the “Administrator”) shall ensure funds are
disbursed in the correct manner and in accordance with this plan adopted by the
Town Council and shall answer directly to the Councilmembers with respect to
the use and application of the funds. The Administrator shall follow the town’s
Internal Controls and Best Practice Documents, adopted by the Town Council and
on file in the town hall. The Administrator shall also be responsible for the
recording of any amendments to this plan adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 3-19-2024)
FIXED ASSET CAPITALIZATION POLICY
§ 32.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL OUTLAYS. Expenditures which benefit both the current and future
fiscal periods. This includes costs of acquiring land or structures;
construction or improvements of buildings, structures, or other fixed assets;
and equipment purchases having an appreciable and calculable period of
usefulness. These are expenditures resulting in the acquisition of or addition
to the government’s general fixed assets.
   ENTERPRISE FUNDS. Those funds used to account for operations that are
financed and operated in a manner similar to private business enterprise where
the intent of the governing body is that the costs and expenses (including
depreciation) of providing goods or services to the general public on a
continuing basis be financed or recovered primarily through user charges or
where the governing body has decided that periodic determination of revenues
earned, expenses incurred, and/or net income is appropriate for capital
maintenance, public policy, management control, accountability, and other
purposes. The ENTERPRISE FUNDS of the town shall include the municipally owned
water and sewage utilities. Operation of these utilities shall require
Enterprise Fund accounting and reporting.
   FIXED ASSETS. Tangible assets of a durable nature employed in the operating
activities of the unit and that are relatively permanent and are needed for the
production or sale of goods or services are termed property, plant, and
equipment and are FIXED ASSETS. These are not to be held for sale in the
ordinary course of business. This broad group is usually separated into classes
according to the physical characteristics of the items (such as land,
buildings, improvements other than buildings, machinery and equipment, and
furniture and fixtures).
   HISTORICAL COST. The cash equivalent price exchanged for goods or services
at the date of acquisition. Land, buildings, equipment, and most inventories
are common examples of items recognized under the HISTORICAL COST ATTRIBUTE.
   TANGIBLE ASSETS. Assets that can be observed by one or more of the physical
senses. They may be seen and touched and, in some environments, heard and
smelled.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 32.21 LAND.
   (A)   This town will capitalize all land purchases, regardless of cost.
   (B)   Exceptions to land capitalization are lands purchased outright as
easements or rights-of-way for infrastructure. Examples of infrastructure are
roads and streets, street lighting systems, bridges, overpasses, sidewalks,
curbs, street signs, and storm water collection systems.
   (C)   Original cost of land will include the full value given to the seller,
including relocation, legal services incidental to the purchase (including
title work and opinion), appraisal and negotiation fees, surveying, and costs
for preparing the land for its intended purpose (including contractors and/or
town employee’s salary) such as demolishing buildings, excavating, clean-up,
and/or inspection.
   (D)   A department will record donated land at fair market value on the date
of transfer plus any associated costs.
   (E)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and above procedures.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 32.22 MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The definition of machinery and equipment is an apparatus, tool, or
group of pieces to form a tool. The tool will stand alone and not become a part
of a basic structure or building.
   (B)   This town will capitalize and tag items with an individual value equal
to or greater than an amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to
time. Machinery combined with other machinery to form one unit with a total
value greater than the above-mentioned limit will be one unit.
   (C)   Shipping charges, consultant fees, and any other costs directly
associated with the purchase, delivery, or set-up (including contractors and/or
town employee’s salary), which makes such equipment operable for its intended
purpose, will be capitalized.
   (D)   Improvements or renovations to existing machinery and equipment will
be capitalized only if the result of the change meets all of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Total costs exceed an amount as shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time;
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
      (3)   The total costs will be greater than the current book value and
less than the fair market value.
   (E)   Examples include:
      (1)   A department’s computer (CPU, monitor, keyboard, and printer) is
considered one unit; and
      (2)   A department will record donated machinery and equipment at fair
market value on the date of transfer with any associated costs.
   (F)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and procedures herein.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 32.23 BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   A department will capitalize buildings at full cost with no
subcategories for tracking the cost of attachments. Examples of attachments are
roofs, heating, cooling, plumbing, lighting, or sprinkler systems or any part
of the basic building.
      (2)   The department will include the cost of items designed or purchased
exclusively for the building.
   (B)   A department’s new building will be capitalized only if it meets the
following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds an amount as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (C)   A department improving or renovating an existing building will
capitalize the cost only if the result meets all of the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds an amount as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time;
      (2)   The useful life is extended two or more years; and
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than the fair market value.
   (D)   Capital building costs will include preparation of land for the
building, engineering, and architectural fees; bond issuance fees; interest
cost (while under construction); and any other costs directly attributable to
the construction of a building.
   (E)   A department will record donated buildings at fair market value on the
date of transfer with any associated costs.
   (F)   Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and procedures herein.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 32.24 IMPROVEMENTS OTHER THAN BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The definition of this group is improvements to land for better
enjoyment, attached or not easily removed, and will have a life expectancy of
greater than two years.
   (B)   Examples are sidewalks, fencing, parking areas, driveways, and other
similar items.
   (C)   Improvements do not include roads, streets, or assets that are of
value only to the public. For example, Main Street is a public street with
greatest value to the public. Roads or driveways upon town-owned land that
provide support to our facilities are assets. A sidewalk down the street for
public enjoyment is an infrastructure improvement and is not capitalized.
However, sidewalks installed upon town-owned land for use by the general public
and for the support of our facility are capital assets.
   (D)   This town will capitalize new improvements other than buildings only
if it meets the following conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds an amount as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time; and
      (2)   The useful life is greater than two years.
   (E)   A department will capitalize improvements or renovations to existing
improvements other than buildings only if the result meets the following
conditions:
      (1)   The total cost exceeds an amount as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time;
      (2)   The asset’s useful life is extended two or more years; and
      (3)   The total cost will be greater than the current book value and less
than fair market value.
   (F)   A department’s donated improvements other than buildings will be
recorded at fair market value on the date of transfer with any associated
costs. Purchases made using federal or state funding will follow the source
funding policies and procedures herein.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 32.25 RECORDING AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   The town and its various departments shall classify capital
expenditures as capital outlays within the fund from which the expenditure was
made in accordance with the Chart of Accounts of the Cities and Town’s
Accounting Manual. The cost of property, plant, and equipment include all
expenditures necessary to put the asset into position and ready for use. For
purposes of recording fixed assets of the town and its departments, the
valuation of assets shall be based on historical cost or where historical cost
is indeterminable, by estimation, for those assets in existence.
   (B)   The town’s municipally owned utilities shall record acquisition of
fixed assets in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. When
an asset is purchased for cash, the acquisition is simply recorded at the
amount of cash paid, including all outlays relating to its purchase and
preparation for intended use. Assets may be acquired under a number of other
arrangements including:
      (1)   Assets acquired for a lump-sum price;
      (2)   Purchase on deferred payment contact;
      (3)   Acquisition under capital lease;
      (4)   Acquisition by exchange of non-monetary assets;
      (5)   Acquisition by issuance of securities;
      (6)   Acquisition by self-construction; and
      (7)   Acquisition by donation or discovery.
   (C)   (1)   Some of these arrangements present special problems relating to
the cost to be recorded; for example, in utility accounting, interest during a
period of construction has long been recognized as a part of the asset cost.
      (2)   Reference to an intermediate accounting manual will illustrate the
recording of acquisition of assets under the aforementioned acquisition
arrangements. For purposes of recording fixed assets of the utilities, the
valuation of assets shall be based on historical cost.
   (D)   In addition, an asset register (prescribed Form 211) shall be
maintained to provide a detailed record of the capital assets of the
governmental unit.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 12-15-2010)
§ 32.26 SAFEGUARDING OF ASSETS.
   Be it ordained that accounting controls be designed and implemented to
provide reasonable assurances that:
   (A)   Capital expenditures made by the town and its various departments and
utilities are in accordance with management’s authorization as documented in
the minutes;
   (B)   Transactions of the utilities be recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
principles;
   (C)   Adequate detailed records be maintained to assure accountability for
town- and utility-owned assets;
   (D)   Access to assets shall be permitted in accordance with management’s
authorization; and
   (E)   The recorded accountability for assets be compared with the existing
assets at least every two years and appropriate action be taken with respect to
any differences.
(Ord. 2010-6, passed 12-15-2010)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Definition
   
50.02   Containment
   
50.03   Removal of trash and debris
   
50.04   Screening of trash
   
50.05   Determination and notice of violation
   
50.06   Costs and abatement
   
50.07   Legal action
   
50.08   Accounting and records
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITION.
   TRASH or DEBRIS refers to combustible and non-combustible waste materials.
Herein, the terms shall include the animal and vegetable waste resulting from
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of foods; the residue from
burning any combustible materials; paper, rags, wood, and lumber not stacked
and elevated 18 inches, protected from rain and free of insects and rodents;
tree branches and yard waste (unless these materials are being incorporated
into a properly managed, ongoing, and permitted (if required) composting
operation); tin cans; metals; household goods including, but not limited to,
mattresses, furniture, major household appliances, clothing, and other
household items not intended for exposure to rain and other inclimate weather;
and harmful chemicals, motor vehicle parts, non-motorized vehicle parts, and
any other materials which creates a nuisance.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-16-2005)
§ 50.02 CONTAINMENT.
   (A)   Every owner or person in possession of a residential or a non-
residential premises in the town is required to have trash and debris placed in
a container or containers so as to prevent scattering, littering, or noxious
odors. Any garbage which can produce noxious odors must be wrapped or placed in
containers with tight-fitting lids.
   (B)   (1)   Every owner or person in possession of residential premises in
the town shall provide for his or her residential unit an adequate number of
proper containers.
      (2)   The containers must be located in such a manner as to prevent them
from being overturned and be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, free from
any substance which would attract or breed flies, mosquitoes, or other insects.
   (C)   Rubbish and yard waste which cannot be secured in a container may be
secured in bundles or may be deposited in plastic bags.
   (D)   For waste that is too large for containers, plastic bags, or securing
in bundles, such bulky items shall be otherwise secured so as to prevent
scattering.
   (E)   No person shall use plastic for unprotected outdoor storage of refuge
other than for leaves or other lawn debris. Storage in plastic bags containing
refuse shall be considered unprotected when not used as liners for containers
or not placed in an enclosure affording reasonable protection from damage by
animals.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-16-2005) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 REMOVAL OF TRASH AND DEBRIS.
   (A)   Every owner or person in possession of a residential or non-
residential premises in the town is required to have his or her trash and
debris removed and disposed of on a regular basis, not to exceed every 14 days.
   (B)   Any trash and debris causing noxious odors or which is attracting
flies, mosquitoes, or any other insects must be removed and disposed of
immediately.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-16-2005) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 SCREENING OF TRASH.
   (A)   Owners or persons in control of properties being used for commercial
purposes or multiple residential premises containing four or more residential
units shall not use areas plainly visible to the public for storage areas for
trash containers and disposal containers.
   (B)   If placement of trash containers cannot be located in an area not
plainly visible to the public, the owners or persons in control of the property
must enclose the trash containers with fencing which screens the trash
containers and does not allow visibility into the enclosure.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-16-2005) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 DETERMINATION AND NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Determination of violations. Any violations of this chapter shall
first be investigated by the town to determine whether such violations do exist
and to further determine the person who has created or maintained such
violations.
   (B)   Notice of violations. The town shall give written notice to the owner
(s) and occupant of the premises of any violation of this chapter and
specifying the particular nature of the violation, the corrective action to be
taken to abate the violation, and the time limit for the abatement of the
violation. The time period shall be a reasonable time.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-16-2005)
§ 50.06 COSTS AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Except for §
50.04, if, at the expiration of the time limit in the notice, the person
responsible for the commission, creation, or maintenance of the violation has
not complied with the notice, the town may initiate such clean-up as identified
in the notice. When trash and debris is removed by action of the town, the
person responsible for the commission or the maintenance of the violation and
the owner(s) of record at the time of the notice to remove trash and debris was
sent are jointly and severally liable for the following costs:
         (a)   The actual cost incurred by the town to perform the clean-up as
identified in the notice; and
         (b)   An amount that represents a reasonable estimate of the average
processing expense that will be incurred by the town in taking the technical,
administrative, and legal actions concerning typical trash and debris
violations that are necessary to remove trash and debris. In calculating the
amount of the average processing expenses, the following costs may be
considered:
            1.   The cost of obtaining reliable information about the identity
and location of the owner;
            2.   The cost of preparing and mailing notices;
            3.   The cost of publishing notices;
            4.   The salaries and fringe benefits of employees;
            5.   The pro rata cost of motor vehicle operating costs for town-
owned vehicles or the cost of the mileage for the use of employee’s private
vehicles; and
            6.   The cost of supplies, equipment, and office space.
      (2)   The Town Council shall determine the amount of the average process
expense at a public meeting.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of the property, at the time the notice to remove
trash and debris is sent, is jointly and severally liable with the occupant for
the cost of removal. The occupier and owner shall have 30 days to pay for the
cost of the clean-up.
      (2)   The occupier and/or owner shall be sent a notice of cost of removal
of trash and debris by the town, notifying him, her, or them of the costs and
expenses incurred by the town in removing the trash and debris. The notice
shall inform the property owner that payment is due within 30 days of receipt
of the notice.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-16-2005)
§ 50.07 LEGAL ACTION.
   In the event the owner(s) or person shall refuse to pay the amount to the
town, the town may initiate legal action for collection of this debt, including
attorney fees. The town may also certify the unpaid amount due to the County
Auditor and County Treasure for inclusion upon the tax rolls as a delinquent
assessment, pursuant to the authority granted by the statutes of the state.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-16-2005)
§ 50.08 ACCOUNTING AND RECORDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall establish a proper system of accounting and keep
proper records concerning revenues received pursuant to this chapter. All
revenues and money derived from the operation of this chapter shall be paid to
and held by the Clerk-Treasurer and deposited into the General Fund of the
town.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-16-2005)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   With respect to all violations of this chapter, the owner(s) or persons in
control of the property shall be subject to a civil penalty in an amount as
shall be set by the Town Council from time to time for each day a violation
continues after the date of compliance set forth in the written notice.
(Ord. 2005-2, passed 5-16-2005)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Wastewater service territory
   
51.02   Returned check
   
51.03   Compound meter set-up
   
51.04   Temporary users
   
51.05   Water connection by licensed plumber
   
51.06   Non-sanitary water discharge
   
51.07   Joint liability
   
51.08   Notice to out-of-town customers
   
51.09   Obstructing water facilities
Rates and Charges
   
51.20   Water rates
   
51.21   Service deposit; customer deposit
   
51.22   Service connection fees
   
51.23   Delinquent service fee
   
51.24   Collection and deferred payment charges
   
51.25   Fire protection; sprinkling charge
   
51.26   Water coin machine
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 WASTEWATER SERVICE TERRITORY.
   (A)   This Council finds that the public convenience and necessity continues
to require the town’s regulation of the furnishing of sewer service within the
regulated territory and that the public interest will be served by the town’s
regulation of the furnishings of sewer service within the regulated territory.
   (B)   Upon the approval of the section by the State’s Utility Regulatory
Commission, in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-6, the town shall hold an exclusive
license to furnish sewer service within the regulated territory, and all other
utilities are expressly prohibited from furnishing sewer service within the
regulated territory, except for those customers located in the regulated
territory that are connected to another sewer utility, as of the date Ordinance
2013-3 was adopted.
   (C)   Furnishing water or sewer service within the regulated territory
without a specific permit issued by the town allowing for the provision of such
service is forbidden and all other utilities are expressly prohibited from
furnishing sewer service within the regulated territory, except for those
customers located in the regulated territory that are connected to another
sewer utility as of the date this section is adopted, without obtaining a
permit for such action (attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein is a map depicting the regulated territory), a copy of
which shall be retained for public inspection at the offices of the town’s
sewer utility during regular business hours.
   (D)   The town’s existing rules and regulations for sewer service, as
amended from time to time, shall apply to and within the regulated territory.
(Ord. 2016-2, passed 5-26-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 8-1.5-6
§ 51.02 RETURNED CHECK.
   In the event that a utility users check is returned for insufficient funds,
there shall be a charge assessed against the user in the amount of $25 per
check, plus any fines or fees assessed by the town’s financial institution.
This charge shall be added to the outstanding bill along with any deferred
payment charges or other charges authorized by town ordinances or state
statutes.
(Ord. 2021-5, passed 9-21-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-23-2024)
§ 51.03 COMPOUND METER SET-UP.
   (A)   Where the waterworks supplies water to certain customers, the town
waterworks utilizes a compound meter set-up, consisting of two meters
configured to act as one service using a small-capacity and a large-capacity
meter, to maximize the efficiency to achieve the most accurate measurement of
water.
   (B)   A water service line utilizing a compound meter set-up shall be
charged at the rate of the larger meter using the total consumption of both
meters and the minimum charge shall be based on the larger meter.
(Ord. 2019-2, passed 4-16-2019)
§ 51.04 TEMPORARY USERS.
   Water furnished to temporary users, such as contractors, public events, and
the like, shall be charged on the basis of meter gallon rates heretofore set
forth as estimated by the Water Department.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-23-2024)
§ 51.05 WATER CONNECTION BY LICENSED PLUMBER.
   (A)   For any water connection other than a single-family home as set forth
in §
51.20, the water customer shall be responsible for making the water connection
to the town water system. The water customer shall notify the town of the name
of the licensed plumber who will be making the connection for the town’s
approval.
   (B)   The water customer shall notify the town a minimum of 48 hours prior
to when the connection will be made. A representative of the utility must be
present at the time of the connection to inspect and approve the work.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-23-2024)
§ 51.06 NON-SANITARY WATER DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Customers may ask for an adjustment two times annually for water that
was not discharged into the town’s sanitary sewer collection system. Such non-
sanitary discharge includes: filling of swimming pools, hot tubs, spas,
cisterns, wells; and unintentional leaks.
   (B)   An adjustment of the sewer charges will be made by the town based upon
the consumption shown during the non-sanitary usage. Adjustments will not be
made for usages of less than 500 gallons. The town reserves the right to
determine, in the town’s sole discretion, whether to allow such an adjustment.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-23-2024)
§ 51.07 JOINT LIABILITY.
   (A)   The owner of the premises, parcel of land, or lot served and the
occupant/user of the water service shall be jointly and severally liable for
the water service provided to said premises by the town.
   (B)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants occupying
the property served unless otherwise requested in writing by the owner, but
such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from liability of paying for the
water service in the event payment is not made as herein required.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 11-21-2017)
§ 51.08 NOTICE TO OUT-OF-TOWN CUSTOMERS.
   Notice is hereby given in accordance with I.C. 8-1.5-3-8.1 as follows:
 
Following adoption of the ordinance, you may be entitled to petition the
Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission, under I.C. 8-1.5-3-8.3, to review and
adjust the rates and charges imposed on the users if a petition under I.C. 8-
1.5-3-8.2 or I.C. 36-9-23-26.1, with respect to the same rate ordinance, has
not been filed.
 
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 11-21-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-8.1, 8-1.5-3-8.2, 8-1.5-3-8.3, and 36-
9-23-26.1
§ 51.09 OBSTRUCTING WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place upon or about any
gate valve, manhole, fire hydrant, stop cock, meter, or meter box connected
with the water pipes of the town’s system of waterworks, any vehicle, trailer,
object, material, debris, or structure of any kind which will prevent free
access to such facilities at all times.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or occupant of all
premises upon which such facilities are placed to maintain a one-foot clearance
around all such facilities; provided, there shall be a three-foot clearance
surrounding any fire hydrant.
   (B)   (1)   Upon finding that access to a meter for purposes of the reading
of the meter or the disconnection of service, on the basis of account
delinquency, is prevented by a motor vehicle or trailer parked on or over such
meter, the Water Department shall contact the customer served by the meter and
request such customer to move the motor vehicle or trailer so as to allow
access to the meter.
      (2)   If the customer cannot be contacted or refuses to cooperate, a
written notice shall be posted on the door of the home or business and on the
motor vehicle or trailer obstructing the meter stating that the motor vehicle
or trailer or any other motor vehicle or trailer parked in such manner as to
prevent access to the meter will be removed after 24 hours at the vehicle
owner’s expense.
      (3)   (a)   If, after 24 hours, access to the meter is still prevented by
a motor vehicle or trailer, such motor vehicle or trailer may be towed, at the
vehicle owner’s expense, by or at the direction of a town employee or a law
enforcement officer; provided, however, the permission of the owner or occupant
of the property from which the motor vehicle or trailer is towed shall not be
required.
         (b)   Prior to the actual towing of the motor vehicle or trailer, the
owner or occupant, if and only if present and available, shall be given the
opportunity to move the motor vehicle or trailer.
         (c)   The owner of a vehicle towed pursuant to this section shall be
responsible for all towing charges. If immediate access to a meter is
necessitated by an emergency situation, the 24-hour notice provided in this
division (B) shall not be required prior to towing a vehicle blocking access.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 6-17-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.20 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Rates. Every person whose premises are served by said water utility
shall be charged for the services provided. The water rates and charges shall
be based on the quantity of water used on or in the property or premises,
subject to rates and charges as the same is measured by the water meter therein
used. For purposes of billing and collecting the charges for water usage and
services, the water meters shall be read monthly, and the user shall be billed
monthly or for a period equaling a month. The monthly water rates for the Water
Department shall be as follows.
      (1)   Meter consumption per month. Meter consumption shall be measured
and billed per the scheduled phases herein, effective upon the passing of this
section and beginning February 15, 2024 (the first billing after adoption).
                    Rate per Month
Metered Rates       Phase
(per 1,000 gallons) Present I   II  III IV  V
                    (1)     (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
                     Rate per Month
Metered Rates        Phase
(per 1,000 gallons)  Present I      II     III    IV     V
                     (1)     (2)    (3)    (4)    (5)    (6)
First 2,000 gallons  $36.70  $37.43 $38.18 $38.94 $39.72 $40.91
Next 8,000 gallons   $9.39   $9.58  $9.77  $9.97  $10.17 $10.48
Next 10,000 gallons  $9.05   $9.23  $9.41  $9.60  $9.79  $10.08
Next 30,000 gallons  $8.69   $8.86  $9.04  $9.22  $9.40  $9.68
Next 50,000 gallons  $8.33   $8.50  $8.67  $8.84  $9.02  $9.29
Over 100,000 gallons $6.37   $6.50  $6.63  $6.76  $6.90  $7.11
 
      (2)   Minimum charge. Each user of the water utility shall pay a minimum
charge based on the size of the water meter installed for which the user will
be entitled to the quantity of water hereinafter set forth. The minimum charge
shall be assessed and billed per the scheduled phases herein, effective upon
the passing of this section and beginning February 15, 2024 (the first billing
after adoption).
                             Per Month
Meter Length Gallons Allowed Phase
                             Present I   II  III IV  V
                             (1)     (2) (3) (4) (5) (6)
                             Per Month
Meter Length Gallons Allowed Phase
                             Present I       II      III     IV      V
                             (1)     (2)     (3)     (4)     (5)     (6)
5/8 to 3/    2,000           $36.70  $37.43  $38.18  $38.94  $39.72  $40.91
4 inches
1 inch       5,000           $64.87  $66.17  $67.49  $68.85  $70.23  $72.35
1-1/2 inches 10,000          $111.82 $114.07 $116.34 $118.70 $121.08 $124.75
2 inches     16,000          $166.12 $169.45 $172.80 $176.30 $179.82 $185.23
3 inches     30,000          $289.22 $294.97 $300.84 $306.90 $312.98 $322.35
4 inches     50,000          $463.02 $472.17 $481.64 $491.30 $500.98 $515.95
6 inches     100,000         $879.52 $897.17 $915.14 $933.30 $951.98 $980.45
 
   (B)   Phase schedule. The five scheduled phases, as referenced herein,
Phases I through V shall become effective as follows:
      (1)   Phase I: December 15, 2022;
      (2)   Phase II: April 15, 2023;
      (3)   Phase III: April 15, 2024;
      (4)   Phase IV: April 15, 2025; and
      (5)   Phase V: April 15, 2026.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-23-2024)
§ 51.21 SERVICE DEPOSIT; CUSTOMER DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Service deposit. A deposit in an amount as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time is required for each water service that requires a
separate billing. The deposit is to be paid prior to being connected to the
water service. The deposit will be either returned or applied to outstanding
bills for the customer upon termination of service.
   (B)   Customer deposit. A deposit of $250, or as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time, is required for water service for each water meter
for which deposit is to be paid prior to being connected to the water service.
The deposit will be either returned or applied to outstanding bills for the
customer upon termination of service. Customers that rent or otherwise occupy a
premises shall pay a deposit of $250, or as shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time.
(Ord. 2007-2, passed 5-21-2007; Ord. 2017-6, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 2024-1,
passed 1-23-2024)
§ 51.22 SERVICE CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   Service connection fees. The connection fee for the Town Water
Department shall be as follows. Each water customer shall pay $1 per month, per
meter, with the exception of additional meters under division (B) below, at
which the customer receives water services to pay for meter data collection
services and maintenance thereof.
      (1)   Residential uses and fees. The following fees are subject to change
at the discretion of the Town Council from time to time.
 
Residential Use                        Fees
1 1/2 inch-meter and above             $4,000 plus parts, labor, boring
Apartments                             Subject to commercial/industrial tap +
                                       $1,000 per unit
Homes (duplex)                         $4,000.00 plus parts, labor, boring
Homes (single-family); 5/8 x 3/4 and 1 $2,500.00 includes parts, labor, boring
inches only
Private systems (2 inches and under)   Subject to commercial/industrial tap
                                       + $1,000 per residential connection
Trailer parks                          Subject to commercial/industrial tap +
                                       $1,000 per unit
 
      (2)   Industrial/commercial/Industrial use. The following fees are
subject to change at the discretion of the Town Council from time to time.
Meter sizes Fees
Meter sizes            Fees
5/8 x 3/4 and 1 inches $2,500 plus parts, labor, boring
1 1/2 inches           $4,000 plus parts, labor, boring
2 inches               $4,000 plus parts, labor, boring
3 inches               $6,000 plus parts, labor, boring
4 inches               $8,000 plus parts, labor, boring
6 inches               $12,000 plus parts, labor, boring
8 inches and above     Case by case basis
 
      (3)   New development within town limits or petitioned for annexation to
town. If the owner or developer of a subdivision containing ten or more platted
lots has paid for the extension of the water lines, complete with laterals and
the development is within town limits or the development has been petitioned
for annexation to the town by the owner or developer, the appropriate
connection fees shall be reduced by $200, or as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time.
   (B)   Minimum charge and service connection fee for second meter.
      (1)   Each residential user of the water utility that has a second meter
on his, her, or their property (for the purpose of lawn sprinklers, outdoor
use, or non-sanitary sewer discharge) shall be required to pay a minimum charge
on the second meter. The service connection fee shall be waived if the customer
utilizes his, her, or their existing service line but shall be responsible for
all parts, labor, and boring to utilize a double setter for two meters. If the
customer so desires to have an additional water main tap for the second meter,
the customer shall be subject to the service connection fees, as set forth in
division (A)(1) above.
      (2)   Customers utilizing a second meter shall be charged a reconnect fee
of $25, or as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time. Additionally,
customers who turn off their water shall also be charged a reconnection fee of
$25, or as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-23-2024)
§ 51.23 DELINQUENT SERVICE FEE.
   There shall be a reconnection fee of $75 for reconnecting a customer’s water
service for any customer whose service has previously been disconnected for
reason of nonpayment of monthly charges.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-23-2024)
§ 51.24 COLLECTION AND DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGES.
   (A)   Utility bills for the rates and charges as herein established for the
town shall be sent monthly. All utility bills shall be payable on the fifteenth
day of the month following the reading of the water meters. Any charges not
paid by the fifteenth day of such month shall be subjected to a 10% late fee to
be collected therewith.
   (B)   If any utility bills for the service of the waterworks system shall
remain unpaid 30 days after the aforementioned due date, the water supply for
the lot, parcel of land, or premises affected shall be disconnected and shall
not be turned on again except on payment in full of the delinquent charges
therefore, in addition to the payment of the reconnection fee of $75, or as
shall be set by the Town Council from time to time, as set forth in §
51.23.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-23-2024)
§ 51.25 FIRE PROTECTION; SPRINKLING CHARGE.
   (A)   Fire protection charge. Each water customer shall pay $1 per month per
meter, with the exception of additional meters under §
51.22(B), at which the customer receives water services to pay for fire
protection services.
   (B)   Fire sprinkling systems. The annual service charge for fire sprinkling
systems is as follows. The following fees are subject to change at the
discretion of the Town Council from time to time.
 
Sprinkler Size Annual Fee
4-inch line    $250
6-inch line    $550
8-inch line    $1,100
10-inch line   $1,700
12-inch line   $2,500
 
   (C)   Fire sprinkler connection fees. The connection fee for the town water
utility shall be, in addition to the connection fees listed in §
51.22(A)(1) and (A)(2), an additional $3,500 base charge, or in an amount as
shall be set by the Town Council from time to time, plus costs of installation,
for each fire sprinkler connection in any building or structure.
   (D)   Fire protection service for sewer customers. Each sewer customer of
the town who is not a customer of the Water Department shall pay $0.40 per
month for fire protection services, or another amount as shall be set by the
Town Council from time to time, as part of the monthly sewer bill.
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 5-21-2007; Ord. 2017-6, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 2024-1,
passed 1-23-2024)
§ 51.26 WATER COIN MACHINE.
   The charge for usage of the water coin machine shall be $0.75 per 50
gallons, or another amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to
time.
(Ord. 2017-6, passed 11-21-2017; Ord. 2024-1, passed 1-23-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING RULES
Section
   
70.01   Speed limits
   
70.02   Parking restrictions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit on the following roadways shall be established at 20 mph:
   (A)   At Fifth Street between Walnut Street and Sycamore Street, including
the intersections on each end;
   (B)   At Main Street between Fourth Street and the western town limits; and
   (C)   At Walnut Street between Fifth Street and Fourth Street.
(Ord. 2014-4, passed 11-13-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited parking areas. Upon and after the effective date of this
section, it shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle at the following
locations within the town:
      (1)   On the east and west sides of Second Street from its intersection
with Sycamore Street to its intersection with Elm Street;
      (2)   On the west side of Second Street from its intersection with Elm
Street to its intersection with North Street; and
      (3)   On the north side of Sycamore Street, within 150 feet of the
intersection of Sycamore Street and First Street.
   (B)   Fire Department parking. The following locations are reserved for
members of the Volunteer Fire Department unless otherwise authorized by the
Fire Chief. It shall be unlawful for anyone not a member of the Volunteer Fire
Department to park at these locations:
      (1)   The first nine parking places on the west side of East Front Street
from the intersection with Main Street; and
      (2)   The first six parking places on the north side of East Main Street
from the intersection with East Front Street.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any owner or driver of a motor vehicle which violates §
70.02 is hereby imposed a fine in an amount as shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time for each violation.
(Ord. 2011-5, passed 7-18-2011)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
71.01   Definition
   
71.02   Permitted operation
   
71.03   Registration
   
71.04   Operators
   
71.05   Financial responsibility; responsibility of owner
   
71.06   Equipment
   
71.07   Operation regulations
   
71.08   Compliance; enforcement
Off-Road Vehicles
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   Use on streets
   
71.22   Registration; liability; insurance
   
71.23   Operation regulations and restrictions
   
71.24   Equipment
   
71.25   Impoundment of vehicles; enforcement
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.01 DEFINITION.
   GOLF CART means a four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically
designed and intended to transport one or more individuals properly seated and
golf clubs for the purposes of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 9-27-2022)
§ 71.02 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Golf carts may be operated on the town streets but only if such golf carts
are registered, equipped, and operated in full compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 9-27-2022) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The owner or lessee of a golf cart intending to operate it on the
streets in the town must register the golf cart annually with the town on or
before March 31 and pay an annual registration fee of $25 paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town.
   (B)   At the time of registration, the Town Marshal or deputy marshals shall
perform an inspection to verify the golf cart is insured and is equipped as
required herein. After inspection by the Town Marshal or deputy marshals and
payment of the registration fee, the Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a certificate
of registration (“permit”), which must be in the golf cart or in the possession
of the person operating the golf cart at all times such golf cart is in
operation on the town streets.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 9-27-2022) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 OPERATORS.
   Only persons 16 years of age and older and holding a valid motor vehicle
driver’s license may operate a golf cart within the town.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 9-27-2022) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY; RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   Financial responsibility of the owner, lessee, and operator. A golf
cart operating on the streets of the town shall be insured by liability
insurance coverage in an amount not less than that provided by state statutes
for motor vehicles operated on public thoroughfares in the state. Proof of such
liability coverage must be available on the golf cart or carried by the
operator at all times that the golf cart is operated on the streets of the
town.
   (B)   Responsibility of owner or lessee. The owner or lessee of a golf cart
who applies for a permit to operate the golf cart within the town, as herein
provided, shall agree to be responsible, jointly and severally with any person
who is permitted to operate the golf cart, for any injury or damages the
operator causes by reason of the operation of the golf cart, if such operator
is liable for such damages.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 9-27-2022)
§ 71.06 EQUIPMENT.
   A golf cart operating on the streets of the town shall be equipped with
operating headlight or headlights and taillight or taillights (red color)
visible from a distance of 500 feet, brakes adequate to control the movement of
and to stop and hold the golf cart, and a rearview mirror. A slow-moving
vehicle placard shall be prominently displayed on the rear of the golf cart.
All gas golf carts must be equipped with a muffler in good working order and in
constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise and annoying smoke.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 9-27-2022) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permissible streets. Golf carts may be operated on streets within the
town on which the speed limit is 25 mph or less.
   (B)   Restricted areas. Golf carts may not be operated on sidewalks, on any
unpaved surfaces of public property, or on any private property without
permission of the owner.
   (C)   Number and seating of occupants. Occupants of a golf cart in operation
on the town streets shall be limited to the number of persons for whom seating
is installed on the golf cart. Occupants of the golf cart, including the
operator, shall be seated in the cart, and no part of the body of the operator
or an occupant shall extend outside the perimeter of the cart while in
operation.
   (D)   Traffic rules. All golf carts and the operation thereof shall be
subject to all traffic rules, in addition to the requirements set forth herein,
as required by state statutes governing the operation of motor vehicles.
   (E)   Hand signals. All operators of golf carts must use proper hand signals
for turning or lane changes if the golf cart is not equipped with turn signals.
   (F)   Restriction on operation hours. A golf cart vehicle may not be
operated on any town street between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 9-27-2022) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 COMPLIANCE; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations referred to Town Attorney. All persons who do not admit a
violation of this subchapter and pay the appropriate penalty shall be referred
to the Town Attorney for the filing of a claim against the violator in the
appropriate court in the county.
   (B)   Compliance. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or lessee of
the golf cart to comply with the provisions of §§
71.03,
71.04,
71.05(A),
71.06, and
71.07(F).
      (1)   The failure to comply with those requirements shall constitute a
violation of this subchapter by the owner or lessee of the golf cart.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the operator of the golf cart to
comply with the provisions of §§
71.06 and
71.07(A) through (E) (including, specifically, the responsibility and actions
of all occupants).
      (3)   The failure to comply with the requirements set forth in §§
71.06 and
71.07 (A) through (E) shall constitute a violation of this subchapter by the
operator.
   (C)   Enforcement. All law enforcement officers in the town shall have the
power and it shall be their duty to enforce the provisions of this subchapter
unless otherwise prevented by state statutes regarding the enforcement of state
laws.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 9-27-2022) Penalty, see §
71.99
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 71.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFF-ROAD STREETS. All town streets inside the town limits, except for the
following:
      (1)   Any street posted by order of the Town Council or its designee for
non-use for off-road vehicles; and
      (2)   Any of the following:
         (a)   On sidewalks;
         (b)   On any unpaved surfaces of public property; and
         (c)   On any private property without permission of the owner.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE.
      (1)   For purposes of I.C. 14-16-1, means a motor driven vehicle of at
least four wheels, capable of cross-country travel:
         (a)   Without benefit of a road; and
         (b)   On or immediately over land, water, snow, ice, marsh, swampland,
or other natural terrain.
      (2)   The term OFF-ROAD VEHICLE does not include a snowmobile or any
other vehicle properly registered by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, any
watercraft that is registered under state statues, or a golf cart vehicle.
   OPERATOR. An OPERATOR of an off-road vehicle must be at least 18 years of
age and possess a valid motor vehicle driver’s license, as is also required by
I.C. 14-16-l-20(c).
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 7-31-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 14-16-1 and 14-16-1-20(c)
§ 71.21 USE ON STREETS.
   (A)   Use on streets, restricted areas. Use and operation of off-road
vehicles on town streets restricted to ingress and egress and direct through-
traffic.
      (1)   An operator of an off-road vehicle may use the off-road vehicle on
off-road streets, subject to the terms and conditions of this subchapter, for
purposes of ingress and egress to the location where the off-road vehicle is
kept within the town, using the most direct route possible to enter and leave
the town.
      (2)   An operator may also use an off-road vehicle to drive through the
town, utilizing the most direct route possible to pass through the town on off-
road streets and subject to the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Off-road vehicles may not operate on restricted streets and areas.
   (B)   Disturbance of roadway.
      (1)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle on town streets in such
a manner which causes damage to the street or disturbs the surface of the
roadway.
      (2)   Any violator of this division (B), in addition to such penalties
set forth in §
71.99, shall be responsible for all costs of repairs of such damage or
disturbance.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 7-31-2014) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 REGISTRATION; LIABILITY; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Registration requirements. Off-road vehicles must be registered under
applicable state law.
   (B)   Liability insurance. An operator operating an off-road vehicle on a
town street shall have liability insurance specifically for such off-road in
accordance with the minimum insurance requirements for the operation of other
motor vehicles on public highways in the state in the minimum amount as shall
be set by the Town Council from time to time per person or per accident.
   (C)   Possession of registration and certificate of insurance. Any operator
of an off-road vehicle shall carry on his or her person any registration
required under I.C. 14-16-1 and the certificate of insurance required under
this subchapter for the off-road vehicle being operated.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 7-31-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 14-16-1 and 14-16-1-8
§ 71.23 OPERATION REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Statutory restrictions on use. Nothing in this subchapter modifies,
alters, or changes the restrictions on operation established under I.C. 14-16-
1-23.
   (B)   Number of occupants. No off-road vehicle shall be occupied by more
persons than for which the vehicle was designed. Each occupant shall have and
use a separate seat.
   (C)   Duties in event of accident. Nothing in this subchapter modifies,
alters, or changes the duties under I.C. 14-16-1-24 placed on the operator of
an off-road vehicle in the event of an accident.
   (D)   Restriction on operation hours. In addition to the restriction
established under I.C. 14-16-1-23(a)(7) prohibiting the operation of off-road
vehicles within 100 feet of a dwelling between midnight and 6:00 a.m., an off-
road vehicle may not be operated on any town street between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m.
   (E)   Other law and regulations. Nothing in this subchapter modifies,
alters, or changes the requirements of the operation of vehicles on public
roadways in the state, and all operators of off-road vehicles must obey and
follow all rules and regulations applicable to the operation of vehicles on
roadways in the state.
   (F)   Emergencies. Any town, county, or state law enforcement officer may
prohibit operation of an off-road vehicle on a town street or roadway during
emergencies.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 7-31-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 14-16-1-23, 14-16-1-23(a)(7), and 14-16-1-24
§ 71.24 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Headlights, taillights, and brakes. The off-road vehicle must meet
those standards of headlights, taillights, and brakes required under I.C. 14-
16-1-21.
   (B)   Mufflers. As required by I.C. 14-16-1-23, each ATV being operated on
town streets, pursuant to this subchapter, must be equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive noise and
annoying smoke.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 7-31-2014)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 14-16-1-21 and 14-16-1-23
§ 71.25 IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Impoundment of off-road vehicle. Any off-road vehicle operated on the
streets of the town by an unlicensed operator or without the equipment required
by this subchapter or by the state shall be impounded by the enforcing officer.
Said off-road vehicle shall be held until retrieved by the owner and a properly
licensed operator. If the off-road vehicle is improperly equipped by this
subchapter or state law for operation on the streets of the town, then it shall
only be released to be hauled away under a properly licensed vehicle capable of
safely hauling the same.
      (1)   The off-road vehicle shall not be released from impoundment until:
         (a)   It is properly registered, as required by law;
         (b)   The actual charge for the towing of the vehicle to the place of
impoundment is paid; or
         (c)   Storage charges in an amount as shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time per day or part thereof have been paid.
      (2)   The town shall not be responsible for any loss or damage sustained
by any off-road vehicle so impounded or stored hereunder. Off-road vehicles not
reclaimed within 30 days from the date of impoundment shall be deemed abandoned
and shall be sold as surplus property.
   (B)   Enforcement. All law enforcement officers in the town shall have the
power and it shall be their duty to enforce the provisions of this subchapter
unless otherwise prevented by the state statutes regarding the enforcement of
state laws.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 7-31-2014)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalty for violations of §§
71.01 through
71.08 shall be as follows.
      (1)   Any person who violates these provisions shall be subject to a
penalty of $100 for the first violation in any 12-month period for each
violation.
      (2)   Any person who violates these provisions a second time in any 12-
month period shall be subject to a penalty of $200 for each violation.
      (3)   Any person who violates these provisions a third time in any 12-
month period shall be subject to a penalty of $250 for each violation.
      (4)   In addition, the permit, as herein provided, may be subject to
suspension or revocation at the time of any violation. In the event that three
or more offenses constituting violations of §§
71.01 through
71.08 occur within one year, the permit to operate the golf cart shall be
revoked and may not be re-issued for a period of one year.
      (5)   If the person found responsible for violation of §§
71.01 through
71.08 is a minor, the custodial parent or parents or the guardians of the minor
shall be responsible for the actions of such minor and shall be liable for
payment of the fine or fines imposed hereunder.
      (6)   All fines and penalties shall be payable to the Town Clerk-
Treasurer. The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to accept the payment of
monetary penalties and place into the General Fund.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
71.20 through
71.25 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and, upon conviction, shall be
fined pursuant to the following schedule:
         (a)   First offense in a calendar year: $100;
         (b)   Second offense in a calendar year: $200; and
         (c)   Third offense in a calendar year: $250.
      (2)   Each day that a violation occurs constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2014-3, passed 7-31-2014; Ord. 2022-02, passed 9-27-2022)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Youth animal permit
   
90.02   Waste removal
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 YOUTH ANIMAL PERMIT.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      4-H. The youth organization known as 4-H and administered by the National
Institute of Food of Agriculture of the United States Department of
Agriculture.
      YOUTH. A person 19 years of age or younger.
   (B)   Youth animal permit. A youth who is a member of 4-H may obtain a
permit to raise goats and/or sheep in connection with a 4-H project for the
duration for the project. Applications for the youth animal permit may be
obtained from and shall be filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer. The Town Clerk-
Treasurer is authorized to issue a youth animal permit upon receipt of a
complete application and verification that the requirements of this section are
met. There shall be no fee charged for the youth animal permit.
   (C)   Requirements for youth animal permit. All applications for the youth
animal permit must meet the following requirements.
      (1)   All applicants must provide proof of membership in 4-H.
      (2)   Applicants must follow all applicable laws, regulations, and
ordinances including, but not limited to, the rules and regulations promulgated
by the State Board of Animal Health (“BOAH”).
      (3)   The property where the animal will be kept must have land area that
is large enough for keeping of the animal in accordance with applicable BOAH
regulations.
      (4)   The animal shall be maintained in a healthy condition, as defined
by the State BOAH and, if ill, shall be given appropriate treatment.
      (5)   The structure in which animals are kept shall be maintained in
accordance with BOAH regulations, shall be kept in a clean and habitable
condition and in a good state of repair, shall allow adequate protection
against the weather, and shall be of sufficient size to permit freedom of
movement.
      (6)   Food supplies shall be of sufficient quantity and nutritional value
to meet the daily requirements of the animal and shall otherwise comply with
BOAH standards.
      (7)   All structures and holding areas for animals must be set back at
last ten feet from any property line. This provision may be modified by the
Town Council.
   (D)   Number of animals. The number of animals shall be limited to one
animal per youth per household.
   (E)   Inspection. Town and county officials and employees, including the
County Animal Control, shall have the right to enter upon the property where
the animals are kept during reasonable hours to inspect the premises to
determine compliance with this section.
   (F)   Revocation. Failure to comply with the requirements of this section
may result in revocation of the youth animal permit.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 4-21-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 WASTE REMOVAL.
   (A)   The owner of every animal, except service animals, shall be
responsible for the immediate removal of any excrement deposited by his or her
animal on public property or on the private property of others.
   (B)   A SERVICE ANIMAL shall mean any animal serving a handicapped person in
an auxiliary capacity.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 8-16-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
90.02 shall be fined an amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to
time for the first violation and another amount as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time for the second and subsequent violations within a 12-
month period and costs.
(Ord. 2010-5, passed 8-16-2010)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Fireworks
Open Burning
   
91.15   Applicability
   
91.16   Definitions
   
91.17   Burning ban
   
91.18   Materials that may not be burned
   
91.19   Wood-fired furnaces
   
91.20   Fire Department practice burns
   
91.21   Fire suppression costs
   
91.22   Inspection and enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, CONSUMER FIREWORKS shall mean consumer
fireworks as defined by I.C. 22-11-14-1.
   (B)   Consumer fireworks may not be used, ignited, or discharged within the
corporate limits of the town except during the following times:
      (1)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June
29 and June 30, July 1 through July 3, and July 5 through July 9;
      (2)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m., midnight, on July
4; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and the Fire Chief are authorized to enforce the
provisions of this section.
   (D)   The use, ignition, or discharge of consumer fireworks, other than
during the above-permitted dates and time periods, shall constitute a violation
of this section and shall be subject to a finein an amount as shall be set by
the Town Council from time to time, with each use, ignition, or discharge being
deemed a separate offense.
   (E)   In the event the person who violates this section refuses to pay the
costs set out in division (D) above, the town may initiate legal action for
collection of this debt, including attorney fees.
(Ord. 2013-4, passed 6-17-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-11-14-1
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.15 APPLICABILITY.
   As set forth in §
91.17, this subchapter applies to all outdoor burning and refuse burning within
the town, with the following exceptions.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to grilling or cooking using charcoal,
clean wood, or propane or natural gas in cooking or grilling appliances.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to burning in a stove, furnace, fireplace,
or other heating device within a building used for human or animal habitation,
unless the material being burned includes refuse, as defined in §
91.16 of this subchapter.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to outdoor fire pits for heating using
clean wood, charcoal, or propane or natural gas in a noncombustible container
that is sufficiently vented to induce adequate combustion and has enclosed
sides, a solid bottom, and a mesh cover. All fire pit fires must be attended at
all times.
      (1)   The fire pit size is limited to 36 inches in diameter, if circular,
or 36 inches on each side, if rectangular.
      (2)   The fire pit container must either be elevated or placed on a
surface having no vegetation or combustible material. Concrete, asphalt,
gravel, brick, stone, or concrete pavers or similar surfaces are acceptable.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene,
natural gas, gasoline, or kerosene in a device that is intended for heating,
construction, or maintenance activities.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 91.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished, or coated
with a similar material; has not been pressure-treated with preservatives; and
does not contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood
products.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department.
   OPEN BURNING. Kindling or maintaining a fire where the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or a chimney.
   OUTDOOR BURNING. Open burning or burning in an outdoor wood-fired furnace.
   OUTDOOR-WOOD FIRED FURNACE. A furnace, stove, or boiler intended for burning
clean wood that is not located in a building intended for habitation by humans
or domestic animals.
   REFUSE. Any waste material except clean wood.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 91.17 BURNING BAN.
   Unless otherwise permitted in this subchapter, open burning, outdoor
burning, and refuse burning, including leaves, weeds, brush, stumps, trees, and
other vegetated debris are prohibited within the town.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 MATERIALS THAT MAY NOT BE BURNED.
   The following materials may not be burned under any circumstances within the
town:
   (A)   Rubbish or garbage including, but not limited to, food waste, food
packaging, animal carcasses, any painted materials, furniture, composite
shingles, construction or demolition debris, or other household or business
waste;
   (B)   Asphalt and products containing asphalt;
   (C)   Treated or painted wood including, but not limited to, plywood,
composite wood products, or other wood products that are painted, varnished, or
treated with preservatives;
   (D)   Any plastic materials, including but not limited to, nylon, PVC, ABS,
polystyrene or urethane foam, synthetic fabrics, plastic films, and plastic
containers;
   (E)   Rubber, including tires and synthetic rubber-like products; and
   (F)   Newspaper, corrugated cardboard, container board, office paper, and
other materials.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 WOOD-FIRED FURNACES.
   Outdoor wood-fired furnaces shall not be used to burn any of the prohibited
materials listed in §§
91.17 and
91.18.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 7-18-2011) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 FIRE DEPARTMENT PRACTICE BURNS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding §§
91.17 and
91.18, the Volunteer Fire Department may burn a standing building for
firefighting practice if the practice burn complies with the requirements of
the State Department of Natural Resources and the Department of Environmental
Management.
   (B)   At least 14 days before the planned practice burn, the Fire Chief or
designee shall make available at common and public places a notice of “live
burn,” including the day, place, and time that the burn is to take place.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 91.21 FIRE SUPPRESSION COSTS.
   A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor fire in violation of this
subchapter shall be responsible for all fire suppression costs incurred by the
Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 91.22 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Right of entry and inspection. The Town Marshal’s office or the Fire
Chief may inspect any property for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Legal action. In the event the person who violates this subchapter
refuses to pay the costs set out in §
91.21 or the fines set forth in §
91.99, the town may initiate legal action for collection of this debt,
including attorney fees.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Marshal and the Fire Chief are authorized to enforce
the provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.22.
      (2)   A person who violates §§
91.15 through
91.22 shall be subject to the following fines, which are subject to change at
the discretion of the Town Council from time to time:
         (a)   First offense: $100;
         (b)   Second offense: $200; and
         (c)   Third and subsequent offenses: $250.
(Ord. 2011-4, passed 7-18-2011)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Purpose and administration
   
92.02   Incorporation of state law; authority
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Enumerated nuisances
   
92.05   Sound nuisances
   
92.06   Notice of violation
   
92.07   Citation; abatement; enforcement
   
92.08   Procedure for collection of costs
Weeds, Grass, and Vegetation
   
92.20   Definition
   
92.21   Height
   
92.22   Notice; citation; abatement
   
92.23   Abatement
   
92.24   Certification
Unsafe Buildings and Premises
   
92.35   Unsafe Building Law adopted; authority
   
92.36   Conditions of unsafe buildings or premises
   
92.37   Definition
   
92.38   Public nuisances unlawful
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 93
   Garbage and refuse regulations, see
Chapter 50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PURPOSE AND ADMINISTRATION.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect the public safety, health, and
welfare and enhance the environment of the people of the town by making it
unlawful to allow or maintain a public nuisance. This chapter is to be
administered by the Town Council’s duly authorized representative and to be
selected by the Town Council in its discretion. It is not the Council’s intent
to include, within its definition of public nuisance, land that is left mostly
in its natural condition or is used primarily for agriculture.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 92.02 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Incorporation of state law. This section incorporates the provisions,
where applicable, of I.C. 36-1-6 as it now exists and is hereafter amended.
   (B)   Authority to make inspections. All officers and employees of the town
shall report the existence of nuisances to the town’s duly authorized
representative. The representative designated by the Town Council shall have
the authority to visit and enter into or upon any property or premises within
the limits of the town to ascertain and discover any nuisance and to make
examination thereof.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-1-6
§ 92.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Those offenses declared herein to be a PUBLIC NUISANCE, and those
offenses which are known to the common law and the state statutes as a public
nuisance, particularly where such offenses continue for such length of time to
substantially interfere, injure, or endanger the comfort, health, or safety of
the public; in any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property; greatly offend the public morals or decency; unlawfully or
substantially interfere with, obstruct, or tend to obstruct or render dangerous
for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable body of water, or other
public way; or is injurious to health or indecent or offensive to the senses of
a reasonable person so as to essentially interfere with the comfortable
enjoyment of life or property. Whenever the word NUISANCE is used in this
chapter, it refers to a PUBLIC NUISANCE, as defined herein.
   OWNER. The record owner and any record contract purchaser of the real
estate, all as shown by the records maintained by the County Auditor.
   RANK VEGETATION. Plant life which grows excessively and unmanageably upon
the land.
   WEED. A plant held to have little or no material public value, which tends
to overgrow or choke out more desirable plants, and is usually growing or has
the potential to grow plentifully and detrimentally upon the land.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 92.04 ENUMERATED NUISANCES.
   (A)   In addition to what is declared in this section to be a public
nuisance, those offenses which are known to the common law and the state
statutes as a public nuisance may, when found to exist within the town limits,
be treated as such and be proceeded against as provided in this town’s
ordinances or in accordance with any other provisions of law.
   (B)   No owner, occupant, tenant, or any other person having a substantial
interest in any improved or unimproved real property within the town or any
agent thereof shall permit or allow to remain on or within that property or
upon abutting public ways any materials, trash, garbage, debris, or any other
matter which is detrimental to the public health, comfort, safety, or the
aesthetic well-being of the community.
   (C)   The following conditions, but not limited only to those, shall
constitute public nuisances for the purpose of this chapter:
      (1)   Litter;
      (2)   Fallen trees, stumps, or dead trees;
      (3)   Boxes, appliances, furniture, household items, tires, tools,
fixtures, and long-term storage of construction material;
      (4)   Demolition remains;
      (5)   Open excavations, uncovered or improperly covered holes (whether
lined or unlined), and dirt piles on any open or unfenced real property,
including open foundations;
      (6)   Dressing of poultry or rabbits;
      (7)   Structure defaced with paint or wording;
      (8)   Any wastewater, filth, offal, garbage, trash, rubbish, animal
waste, or human excrement which is deposited, allowed, or caused to be upon any
property;
      (9)   Any substance which is caused or permitted to flow onto or be
deposited upon any public property or public way, except natural surface water
drainage;
      (10)   The erection of a dam or any other obstruction by a private party
which prevents the flow of water and causes it to collect or pool upon any
private property;
      (11)   Any dead animal;
      (12)   Any real or personal property which is infected with contagious
disease and is likely to cause an imminent health hazard;
      (13)   The placing or accumulation on or within any real or personal
property or the permitting of same of any matter which attracts or may attract
rodents, insects, or animals in such a manner as to create a health hazard or
unsanitary or dangerous condition;
      (14)   Any real or personal property used as a place of residence or
habitation for sleeping that is maintained in such a way as to be dangerous or
detrimental to life or health due to the lack of or defects in water, drainage,
heating, plumbing, or ventilation;
      (15)   Any dilapidated or condemned building, structure, or dwelling or
remains thereof so out of repair that it constitutes a fire hazard liable to
catch on fire or communicate fire to surrounding properties;
      (16)   Any noxious or repugnant odor, smoke, dust, or noise that emits
from the premises into the surrounding atmosphere which created an
uncomfortable condition to surrounding properties;
      (17)   The storage of explosive, combustible, or other flammable material
which creates a safety or health risk;
      (18)   Any trees, shrubbery, weeds, snow, fences, or other material that
obstruct public ways or cause a visual barrier for vehicular traffic;
      (19)   Any junk automobiles, broken concrete, scrap metal, or automobile
parts; and
      (20)   Any growth of weeds, grass, or other rank vegetation which is
either:
         (a)   Neglected, disregarded, or not adequately managed or controlled,
cut, mown, or removed;
         (b)   Has attained a height of eight inches or more; or
         (c)   Is actually or imminently detrimental to the public health,
safety, or welfare.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 SOUND NUISANCES.
   (A)   No person shall play, use, operate, or permit to be played, used, or
operated any radio, tape player, compact disc player, loud speaker, sound
amplifier, or other devices designed for generating or reproducing sound if it
is located in or on any of the following:
      (1)   Any town-owned property including, but not limited to, any street,
alley, highway, sidewalk, park, or other town-owned property; or
      (2)   Any motor vehicle on a public street, alley, highway, park, or
other town-owned property,
and if the sound generated is audible by another human being at a distance of
30 feet from the device producing the sound.
   (B)   Possession by a person or persons of any of the sound-generating
machines or devices enumerated in division (A) above shall be prima facie
evidence that such person operates or those persons operate the machine or
device.
   (C)   The generation of sound in violation of this chapter is deemed to be a
public nuisance.
   (D)   Exemptions include the following.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to properly operating vehicle alarms,
authorized emergency vehicles, vehicle horns used as a warning of danger, or
public safety officials acting within the scope of their authority.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to licensed festivals, parades, or any
activity authorized by the Town Council or other governmental authorities.
   (E)   (1)   A custodial parent shall be responsible for ensuring a minor
child complies with this section and is responsible for any fine imposed.
      (2)   A MINOR shall mean a person under 18 years of age.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 2-24-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Violations of this chapter shall be addressed through the town’s duly
authorized representative as follows.
   (A)   When a public nuisance is found to exist, the town’s representative
shall notify the property’s owner of the existence of the nuisance and order
the owner to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   The written notice to abate shall be served upon an owner by personal
service, by certified mail, or by a notice placard conspicuously posted on the
property with a copy of the notice being sent by regular, first-class United
States mail, postage prepaid, granting a minimum of seven calendar days to
abate the nuisance. The notice shall state the nature of the nuisance and the
penalty for neglect or refusal to abate the nuisance. The notice shall also
contain the address and the telephone number of the town, and a notification
that if the nuisance is not abated within ten calendar days of that notice, the
town may abate the nuisance and seek recovery for its costs of doing so.
   (C)   Within seven calendar days of delivery of a notice to abate, the owner
may notify the town, in writing, of any specific objection to that notice. If
the owner notifies the town of the owner’s objection, no further abatement
action shall be pursued until such action is directed by the Council.
   (D)   If, after the expiration of those seven days, the public nuisance
continues unabated and either no objection has been made or an objection has
been made and considered by the Council and the Council has overruled the
objection, further action shall be taken to abate that nuisance in accordance
with this chapter and applicable law.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 92.07 CITATION; ABATEMENT; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Citation for failure to abate nuisance. Whenever the town’s
representative, after the expiration of the notice, determines that the
property’s owner has failed to abate the nuisance, the town’s representative
may cause a citation to be issued against that owner.
   (B) Abatement of nuisance by town. Upon failure, neglect, or refusal of any
party to comply with the notice to abate, in addition to the issuance of a
citation under this section, the town’s representative, in the name of the
Council, may cause the town to abate by any reasonable means the public
nuisance and, thereafter, furnish the Council with a statement of the costs of
that abatement.
   (C)   Institution of enforcement action. An action for appropriate relief
may be brought against an alleged violator in the County Superior Court.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 PROCEDURE FOR COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   (1)   The town’s representative shall make and issue to the owner a
bill for all costs incurred by the town in abatement of the public nuisance.
The cost billed to the property owner under this section shall include all
actual costs incurred by the town including, without limitation, the cost of a
private contractor should one be used or the actual cost per hour or any labor
spent by town employees in abating the nuisance, equipment and supply costs,
the cost of any title or other record search, and the cost of all postage, plus
an administrative fee equal to 2% of the total of such costs.
      (2)   The owner shall pay the amount of the bill to the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office within 30 days of the date of that delivery, unless, within those 30
days, the owner notifies that office, in writing, of any objection to that
bill. If that notice is given, no further collection action shall be taken
until the Council acts on the objection.
   (B)   If the 30 days has expired and either no timely objection to the bill
has been made or the Council has overruled any timely objection and the bill is
not paid in full, then the bill for all such costs which the owner has failed
to pay shall be certified to the County Auditor to be placed on the tax
duplicate for that property with the result that the amount so certified shall
be collected as delinquent taxes are collected.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
WEEDS, GRASS, AND VEGETATION
§ 92.20 DEFINITION.
   WEEDS or RANK VEGETATION includes any undesirable, uncultivated plant
including weeds, grass, and vegetation, excepting agricultural crops, such as
hay and pasture, while growing.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 92.21 HEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall allow any weeds, grass, or vegetation to grow to a
height eight inches from the ground on any real property owned, leased, or
controlled by him or her within the town.
   (B)   All weeds, grass, and rank vegetation in an excess of eight inches are
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be abated in accordance with
law.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 NOTICE; CITATION; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the town finds weeds, grass, or rank vegetation on real
property within the town which is in such a condition as to violate this
subchapter, the town shall issue written notice to the property owner ordering
the property owner to remove the weeds, grass, or rank vegetation within seven
days of receipt of the notice.
   (B)   Notice shall be served by certified mail upon the property owner at
said person’s last address, as indicated on the records of the County Auditor
on the date of the notice, with a first-class letter sent on the same date.
Notice shall be deemed complete and received upon mailing.
      (1)   In the event the property owner fails to remove the weeds, grass,
or rank vegetation, as required in the written notice, the town may issue to
the property owner a citation for an ordinance violation which states the
relevant offenses of the ordinance, and the matter may be prosecuted in the
appropriate court by the Town Attorney.
      (2)   In addition, if the property owner fails to remove the weeds,
grass, or rank vegetation, as required in the written notice, the town, through
its own workforce or through a private contractor hired by the town, may enter
the real property and abate the violation by cutting and removing the weeds,
grass, or rank vegetation. The expense thereof shall be billed to the property
owner.
         (a)   If the property owner fails to pay such bill within ten days
from the date of notice (which notice shall be served as provided in this
division (B), the town will certify to the County Auditor the amount of the
bill, plus any additional administrative costs incurred in the certification.
         (b)   The Auditor shall, thereafter, place the total amount certified
on the tax duplicate for the property affected, and the total amount (which may
include, without limitation, fees for title searches and postage) and any
accrued interest shall be collected as delinquent taxes are collected and shall
be disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
         (c)   The cost billed to the property owner under this section shall
include all actual costs incurred by the town (including, without limitation,
the cost of a private contractor, should one be used, or the actual cost per
hour or any labor spent by town employees in abating the nuisance, equipment
and supply costs, the cost of any title or other record search, and the cost of
all postage), plus an administrative fee equal to 2% of the total of such
costs.
      (3)   (a)   If an initial notice of violation of this section is provided
to a property owner by certified mail and first-class mail as provided herein,
a continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time of
abatement instead by of certified mail or first-class mail.
         (b)   A continuous abatement notice serves as notice to the property
owner that any subsequent violation during the same year for which the initial
notice of violation was provided may be abated by the town or its contractors
without need of further notice to the property owner.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 92.23 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Any property owner that is aggrieved by a notice to abate or a bill
submitted, following failure to comply, may appeal.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be made in writing and shall be delivered personally
to the town at Town Hall within not more than seven days from the date the
notice or bill was received.
   (C)   The Town Council may, but is not required to, conduct a hearing on
request of an aggrieved person pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 92.24 CERTIFICATION.
   In no event shall a certification be submitted to the County Auditor, unless
and until notice, as provided herein, has been served upon the owner of the
real property.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND PREMISES
§ 92.35 UNSAFE BUILDING LAW ADOPTED; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Adoption of Unsafe Building Law. The town hereby adopts I.C. 36-7-9,
known as the State Unsafe Building Law.
   (B)   Administration.
      (1)   The town hereby creates the Code Enforcement Department
(“Department”) to administer this subchapter.
      (2)   The Town Administrative Manager or his or her designee shall serve
as the Chief Administrative Officer of the Department and the Enforcement
Authority.
   (C)   Hearing authority. The Town Council shall serve as the Hearing
Authority.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 12-15-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-9
§ 92.36 CONDITIONS OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS OR PREMISES.
   The terms UNSAFE BUILDING and UNSAFE PREMISES shall have the definitions set
forth in I.C. 36-7-9-4 and shall include, without limitation, any building or
structure that has any or all of the following conditions or defects, provided
that such conditions or defects exist to the extent that life, health,
property, or safety of the public or its occupants are endangered:
   (A)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, or other means of exit is not of
sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide a safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
   (B)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn, or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
   (C)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member, or portion thereof, due
to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings of similar structure, purpose, or
location;
   (D)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood, or by any other cause to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose, or location;
   (E)   Whenever any portion, member, or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons
or damage property;
   (F)   Whenever any portion of a building or any member, appurtenance, or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached, or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings of similar structure, purpose, or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such buildings;
   (G)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled, or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to wind or earthquake than is required in the case of similar new
construction;
   (H)   Whenever the building or structure or any portion thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, or decay; faulty construction; the removal,
movement, or instability of any portion of the ground necessary for the purpose
of supporting such building; the deterioration, decay, or inadequacy of its
foundation; or any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse;
   (I)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure or any portion
thereof is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
   (J)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members lift,
lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
   (K)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members or 50%
damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or outside
walls, or coverings;
   (L)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake, or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated so as to
become an attractive nuisance to children or freely accessible to persons for
the purpose of committing unlawful acts;
   (M)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists, or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the building regulations of this city
or of any law or ordinance of this state or city relating to the condition,
location, or structure of buildings;
   (N)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws or ordinances, has any non-supporting part,
member, or portion less than 50% or, in any supporting part, member, or portion
less than 66% of the strength, fire-resisting qualities, or characteristics or
weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required, by law, in the case of
a newly constructed building of like area, height, and occupancy in the same
location;
   (O)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, or faulty construction or arrangement; inadequate light, air, or
sanitation facilities; or otherwise as determined by the County Board of Health
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
   (P)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, or lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, as determined by the Fire Chief of the
Volunteer Fire Department, is determined to be a fire hazard; and
   (Q)   When any portion of a building or structure remains on a site after
the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever any
building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so as
to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or hazard
to the public.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 12-15-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-9-4
§ 92.37 DEFINITION.
   The definition of SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST, found at I.C. 36-7-9-2, is
hereby incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 12-15-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-9-2
§ 92.38 PUBLIC NUISANCES UNLAWFUL.
   Unsafe buildings and unsafe premises are hereby declared to be public
nuisances and may be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition, or removal
and shall be subject to fines, penalties, and other enforcement, as established
by this chapter, as amended, or other applicable town ordinances.
(Ord. 2020-4, passed 12-15-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person who violates §
92.05 shall be subject to the following fines, which are subject to change at
the discretion of the Town Council from time to time:
      (1)   First offense: $50;
      (2)   Second offense: $150; and
      (3)   Third offense: $250.
   (C)   For the first offense or §
92.08(A), the fine shall be in an amount as shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time; for the second and all subsequent offenses, the fine again
shall be in an amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time.
Each subsequent day of violation shall be considered a separate and chargeable
offense.
   (D)   Any person found to be in violation of one or more requirements of §§
92.20 through
92.24 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed an amount as shall be set by the
Town Council from time to time. Each day a violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense. Said fine shall be in addition and without exclusion to any
other remedies and/or penalties provided herein.
(Ord. 2011-1, passed 2-24-2011; Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
CHAPTER 93: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Exceptions
   
93.03   Responsibility of owner
   
93.04   Removal and disposal
   
93.05   Report
   
93.06   Claimed and unclaimed vehicles
   
93.07   Towing
   
93.08   Maximum storage charges
   
93.09   Abandoned vehicle account
   
93.10   Liability
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
terms shall have the meaning provided in I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Includes:
      (1)   Any vehicle parked and left unattended on any public street,
highway, or other public property which does not have lawfully affixed thereto
or displayed thereon a valid, unexpired license plate permitting its operation
on public streets and highways or otherwise located on public property
illegally;
      (2)   Any vehicle left on public property continuously without being
moved for three days or more;
      (3)   Any vehicle located on public property in such a manner that it
constitutes a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
      (4)   Any vehicle that has remained on private property for more than 48
hours without the consent of the owner or person in control of such property;
      (5)   Any vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission, or differential or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property;
      (6)   Any vehicle which has been removed and impounded by a towing or
wrecker service or a public agency or order of a police officer enforcing a
statute or ordinance which requires the removal and impoundment of the vehicle
if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or the owner’s
agent within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal; and
      (7)   Any vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property in a location visible from public
property continuously for more than 30 days.
   AUTHORIZED TOWING SERVICE. A business that engages in moving or removing
disabled vehicles, and, once removed, to store impounded vehicles that has been
requested by the Police Department to tow vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAP YARD. A business authorized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking, or operating a junkyard.
   OFFICER or POLICE OFFICER. A sworn member of any law enforcement agency or
Police Department having jurisdiction to enforce this chapter and possessing
police powers within the corporate limits of the town.
   OWNER. The last known record title owner or holder of a vehicle according to
the records of the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property located within the corporate limits of
the town that is not a public street or highway or other public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park, or
other real property owned and maintained by the town, state, or county.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width of any public way or property which has
been dedicated as a public street, highway, or alley that is publicly
maintained as such and is open for use by the public for the purpose of
vehicular traffic within the corporate limits of the town.
   VEHICLE. Any automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle, or motorized bicycle.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq.
§ 93.02 EXCEPTIONS.
    This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed services of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard; and
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed as an antique vehicle.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 93.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment and is
liable for all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of the
vehicle or the parts.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 93.04 REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The removal and disposal of abandoned vehicles pursuant to this
chapter shall be in accordance with I.C. 9-22-1, as those provisions may from
time to time be amended by the legislature.
   (B)   In addition, the town exercises the authority under “Home Rule” to
supplement or clarify state law and procedure to effectuate the purposes of
this chapter.
      (1)   When an officer observes a vehicle or vehicle parts which appear to
be abandoned, he or she shall securely attach to the windshield or other
conspicuous place thereon a notice tag containing the following information:
         (a)   The date, time, officer’s name, name and address of the law
enforcement agency of which the officer is a member, and the address and
telephone number to contact for information;
         (b)   The location, license number, year, make, and model of the
vehicle or parts thereof, if they can be determined;
         (c)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
         (d)   The owner will be responsible for all costs incidental to the
removal, storage, and disposal of the vehicle;
         (e)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours; and
         (f)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of
the vehicle or parts within 72 hours.
      (2)   If the tagged vehicle or parts are not removed within the 72-hour
period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the
vehicle or parts including information on the condition, missing parts, and
other facts that might substantiate the market value is less than an amount as
shall be set by the Town Council from time to time. Photographs shall be taken
to show the condition of the vehicle or the parts.
      (3)   (a)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the
abandoned vehicle and parts is an amount as shall be set by the Town Council
from time to time or more, the officer, before placing a notice tag on the
vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the owner or
person who may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
         (b)   After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts
to be towed to a storage area.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1
§ 93.05 REPORT.
   (A)   Following the removal and impoundment of the vehicle or parts, the
officer shall complete the abandoned vehicle report adopted by the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles. This report shall be submitted to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
within 72 hours. The abandoned vehicle report shall contain a description of
the vehicle including the following information concerning the vehicle:
      (1)   The make;
      (2)   The model;
      (3)   The identification number; and
      (4)   The number of the license plate, if any, along with photographs of
the vehicle.
   (B)   The police officer shall request that the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
advise the public agency or storage lot of the name and most recent mailing
address of the owner and of any lienholder.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the requested information from the Bureau, the officer
shall advise the owner or lienholder that the vehicle or parts have been
impounded at a certain location, that the vehicle or parts must be claimed
within 20 days of the date of the mailing notice, and that the vehicle or parts
will be disposed of after that time. The notice shall also advise the owner or
lienholder that all costs incurred in removing and storing the vehicle or parts
are the owner’s legal responsibility.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 93.06 CLAIMED AND UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   If the owner or lienholder appears to claim the vehicle or parts before the
20-day time period, said person shall be entitled to claim the impounded
vehicle or parts. The cost of towing, storage, and keeping the impounded
vehicle must be paid before the vehicle or parts may be released. If the owner
or lienholder does not appear in 20 days to claim the impounded vehicle or
parts, the vehicle or parts may be sold to the highest bidder at a public sale
conducted after notice under I.C. 5-3-1 et seq., except only one newspaper
insertion one week before the public sale is required. The police officer shall
also follow any other requirements for the disposal of the vehicle set forth in
I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 5-3-1 et seq. and 9-22-1-1 et seq.
§ 93.07 TOWING.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts of vehicles or
vehicles declared public nuisances, the Town Council may enter into towing
contracts or agreements for the removal and storage of abandoned vehicles and
parts.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 93.08 MAXIMUM STORAGE CHARGES.
   The costs charged for storage of an abandoned vehicle may not exceed the
limitations set forth in I.C. 9-22-1-4, as amended from time to time. On the
date of this section, the maximum cost for storage, as set forth in I.C. 9-22-
1-4, is an amount as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 9-22-1-4
§ 93.09 ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   The town shall maintain an account to be known as the “abandoned vehicle
account.” The cost for removing and storing an abandoned vehicle or parts not
claimed by the owner or lienholder shall be paid from the abandoned vehicle
account. The proceeds from any sale of an abandoned vehicle or parts shall be
credited against all costs incidental to the removal, storage, and disposal of
the vehicle or parts. All proceeds from the sale of an abandoned vehicle or
parts that are sold, including charges for bills of sale, and all monies
received from an owner or lienholder for the costs of removal and storage of
the vehicle or parts shall be deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer and placed in
the abandoned vehicle account.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
§ 93.10 LIABILITY.
   Neither the owner, lessee, or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed nor the Police Department, authorized
towing service, or automobile scrap yard is liable for loss or damage to the
vehicle or parts occurring during the removal, storage, or disposition.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-15-2015)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Policy statement
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Unlawful practice
   
94.04   Discrimination in sale or rent of housing
   
94.05   Discrimination in residential estate-related transactions
   
94.06   Discrimination in the provisions of brokerage service
   
94.07   Interference, coercion, or intimidation
   
94.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
94.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
94.10   Exemptions
   
94.11   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits, as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as
amended; the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended; and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-19-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AN AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
94.04 through
94.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, or part of a building or structure that
is occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a residence by one or
more families or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure, or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
FAMILIAL STATUS shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual, with the status of such family being
further defined herein.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-9)
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   Means, with respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined in 910 I.A.C. 2-3.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance, as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 or 910
I.A.C. 2-3-2(14), nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely
because that individual is a transvestite (910 I.A.C. 2-3-2(14)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, limited liability
companies, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, labor
organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies,
trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in cases under 11
U.S.C., receivers, and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for
a consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-19-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-9-1-4 et seq., 22-9.5-5, and 22-9.5-6
§ 94.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
94.09, and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale
or rental of housing set forth I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
94.04 shall apply to all dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below
and I.C. 22-9.5-3.
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
94.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time, provided that, in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption, shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period.
      (2)   (a)   The private individual owner may not own any interest in nor
have owned or reserved on his or her behalf, title to, or any right to all or a
portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-
family houses at any one time.
         (b)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
            1.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental
facilities or services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesperson or any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent, or salesperson or person; and
            2.   Without the publication, posting, or mailing after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
94.04(C), but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of attorneys,
escrow agents, abstracters, title companies, and other such professional
assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (3)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
IN THE BUSINESS OF SELLING OR RENTING dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by or occupied by five or more families.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-9.5-3 and 22-9.5-5-1
§ 94.04 DISCRIMINATION IN SALE OR RENT OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
94.03 and except as exempted by §§
94.03(B) and
94.09, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable or
deny a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print, or publish or cause to be made, printed, or published
any notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of
a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin or
an intention to make any such preference, limitation, or discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin that any dwelling is not
available for inspection, sale, or rental when such dwelling is in fact so
available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induct any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental or to otherwise make unavailable
or deny a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap of:
      (1)   The buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling because of a handicap of:
      (1)   The person;
      (2)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, DISCRIMINATION includes:
      (1)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a modification
on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
      (2)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices, or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
      (3)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
         (a)   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
         (b)   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
         (c)   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
            1.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
            2.   Light, switches, electrical outlets , thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
            3.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (I)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and of the American National Standard for Buildings
and Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(3)(c) above; and
   (J)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction because of race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering, or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap, or familial status.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISIONS OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization, or other service, organization, or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership, or participation on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION, OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten, or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged any
other person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted or protected by
§§
94.03 through
94.06.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   There shall be a penalty for whoever, whether or not acting under code or
law and by force or threat of force, willfully injures, intimidates, or
interferes with or attempt to injure, intimidate, or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying, or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or occupation of any
dwelling or applying for or participating in any service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been or in order to discourage
such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or encouraging other
persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations, or facilities described in division (A)
above or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any
denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined according to local,
state, and federal law and, if bodily injury results.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to 24 C.F.R. §§ 5.403 and 574.3, the definition of FAMILY is
revised to include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual
orientation, gender identity, or marital status of its members.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-19-2016) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions, defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq., shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association, or society from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, or
national origin nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not
in fact open to the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose or
purposes, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a
commercial purpose from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its
members or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for and solely occupied by persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-19-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq.
§ 94.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner, as set forth
in division (B) below, shall be vested in the Chief Elected Official elected
official of the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of finances and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the provisions of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the Chief Elected Official of
the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission, as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution, and appropriate relief, as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs, and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the Chief Elected Official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The Chief Elected Official of the town or the Chief Elected Official’s
designee shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-19-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 22-9.5-4-8 and 22-9.5-6
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violators of §
94.08 shall be fined not more than an amount as shall be set by the Town
Council from time to time or imprisoned not more than ten years or both and, if
death results, shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for
life.
(Ord. 2016-6, passed 7-19-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Permit required
   
110.03   Application
   
110.04   Permit fee
   
110.05   Time limit; non-transferrable
   
110.06   Permit issuance, denial
   
110.07   Permit displayed
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   The words TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall mean the same as said words are defined
under I.C. 25-37-1-2, to-wit:
   (A)   When used in this chapter, includes all persons, firms, limited
liability companies, and corporations, both as principals and agents, who
engage in, do, or transact any temporary or transient business in this state,
either in one locality or in traveling from place to place in this state,
offering for sale or selling goods, wares, or merchandise and those who, for
the purpose of carrying on such business, hire, lease, or occupy any permanent
or mobile building, structure, or real estate for the exhibition by means of
samples, catalogues, photographs, and price lists or sale of such goods, wares,
or merchandise; and
   (B)   As used in this chapter, shall not include:
      (1)   Any person, individual, co-partner, limited liability company, or
corporation which grows the goods, wares, or merchandise that is sold or
offered for sale;
      (2)   A person who makes crafts or items by hand and sells them or offers
them for sale;
      (3)   An auctioneer who is licensed by the state;
      (4)   A person who has resided in the town for more than six months
continuously immediately preceding the commission of any of the acts previously
described in this section;
      (5)   Any person engaged in a sanctioned activity of any school located
within the county; and
      (6)   Any person engaged in an activity sanctioned by a duly organized
church or charitable, civic, or community improvement group having a location
in the county.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 6-19-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 25-37-1-2
§ 110.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any transient merchant to sell or offer to sell any
goods, wares, or merchandise within the corporation limits of the town without
having first obtained a permit to do so.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 APPLICATION.
   Each transient merchant shall apply to the Clerk-Treasurer of the town for
such permit and shall:
   (A)   Furnish the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name;
      (2)   The applicant’s permanent address and telephone number;
      (3)   The applicant’s local address and telephone number;
      (4)   A description of the good, wares, or merchandise to be sold;
      (5)   The name, address, and telephone number of the employer of the
person making such application;
      (6)   The name, address, and telephone number of the immediate supervisor
of the person making such application;
      (7)   The applicant’s Social Security number; and
      (8)   A statement as to whether the applicant has been arrested or
convicted of any crime and, if so, what.
   (B)   Produce a valid driver’s license for the Clerk-Treasurer to photocopy
or, if applicant has no driver’s license, a photograph identification
acceptable to the Clerk-Treasurer;
   (C)   Authorize the town to obtain a police/criminal background report on
the applicant; and
   (D)   Sign the application for the permit and verify that the information in
the application is true.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 110.04 PERMIT FEE.
   The applicant shall pay the Town Clerk-Treasurer a permit fee of an amount
as shall be set by the Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 110.05 TIME LIMIT; NON-TRANSFERRABLE.
   The permit shall be issued for a period of one month, and no permit shall be
transferable. ONE MONTH shall be construed to be 31 continuous calendar days.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 110.06 PERMIT ISSUANCE, DENIAL.
   Upon completion of the application form set forth above and the payment of
the permit fee and the expiration of a 48-hour waiting period, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall issue a permit containing the information required by §
110.03. The Clerk-Treasurer shall not be required to grant approval of the
application to any person who has been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude or any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 110.07 PERMIT DISPLAYED.
   The applicant shall carry the permit on the applicant’s person and shall
display the permit when requested to do so.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who acts as a transient merchant within the corporation limits of
the town without having first obtained a permit to do so under this chapter or
who violates any other provisions of this chapter shall be adjudged to have
committed an act constituting a Class A infraction, and a fine may be assessed
in an amount not exceeding an amount as shall be set by the Town Council from
time to time per occurrence.
(Ord. 2006-2, passed 6-19-2006)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
151.   DISASTER PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Excavations
Vacation of Public Ways
   
150.15   Petition for vacation
   
150.16   Notice
   
150.17   Public hearing
   
150.18   Public utilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Use of public right-of-way. It shall be a violation of this section
for any person, firm, or corporation to excavate, dig, cut, tunnel, bore, or
drill for the purpose of constructing or installing utility facilities
including, without limitation, gas, electric, water, sewer, and cable,
fiberoptic, or other telecommunication lines within any public right-of-way in
the town without first meeting the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Notification requirements.
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation shall, prior to excavating,
digging, cutting, tunneling, boring, drilling, or otherwise constructing or
installing a utility facility or facilities within town public rights-of-way
shall provide 48 hours’ advance notice to the Town Administrative Manager.
      (2)   In the case of an emergency that affects the health and safety of
the public and/or requires the restoration a utility service, notice to the
Town Manager shall be attempted, but work may be performed without providing
such notice so long as notice is provided as soon as is reasonably possible.
   (C)   Locating and excavating town water lines. Prior to the construction or
installation of any utility facility within town rights-of-way, all utilities
within the area of the construction shall be located and marked as required by
state law (I.C. 8-1-26), and any town water lines so located and marked as
being within five feet of the intended construction or installation shall be
excavated to daylight, meaning the water lines shall be safely exposed and made
visible so as to avoid damaging the water lines during construction or
installation of the utility.
   (D)   Restoration. Upon completion of any work performed within town rights-
of-way governed by this section, the person, firm, or corporation that
performed the work shall restore the area disturbed by the work to the
condition that existed prior to commencement of the work.
(Ord. 2021-1, passed 1-19-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 8-1-26
VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS
§ 150.15 PETITION FOR VACATION.
   (A)   Persons who own or are interested in any lots or parts of lots within
the town and want to vacate all or part of a public way or public place in or
contiguous to those lots or parts of lots within the town may file a petition
for vacation with the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Persons desiring such vacation must file with the Clerk-Treasurer a
sworn petition containing the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The circumstances of the case;
      (3)   A legal description of the property proposed to be vacated signed
and certified by a land surveyor registered by the state;
      (4)   The correct names, addresses, and ZIP codes of all owners of land
abutting the property proposed to be vacated; and
      (5)   A location map and site plan showing existing conditions and public
ways or public places marked “to be vacated” on the map.
   (C)   At the time of the filing of the petition, the person desiring such
vacation shall file a completed vacation ordinance, the form of which is set
forth in §
150.17 with a location map and site plan attached.
   (D) At the time of the filing of the petition, the person desiring such
vacation shall provide the Clerk-Treasurer with the following:
      (1)   A filing fee in an amount as shall be set by the Town Council from
time to time, payable by check to the town;
      (2)   A certified check made payable to Warrick Publishing Co. in an
amount sufficient to pay for the costs of publication;
      (3)   A certified check made payable to the Warrick County Recorder in an
amount sufficient to pay for the cost of recording; and
      (4)   A check made payable to the town in an amount sufficient to pay the
cost of mailing notices to abutting property owners.
   (E)   All petitions and ordinances shall be filed along with five copies on
eight and one-half by 11-inch paper with the petition as the first document and
the ordinance as the second document.
   (F)   At the time the petition and ordinance are filed, the applicant shall
also supply the Clerk-Treasurer with notices to landowners whose land abuts the
property to be vacated, the form of the notice being set forth in §
150.16, with pre-addressed envelopes and pre-addressed return receipts for
certified mail returnable to the Clerk-Treasurer with proper postage affixed.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed - -2017)
§ 150.16 NOTICE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall give notice of the petition and of the time
and place of the hearing, the form of which is set forth below, by publication
one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least ten days
before the public healing.
   (B)   In addition, the Clerk-Treasurer shall give notice of the petition and
of the time and place of the hearing by certified mail to landowners whose land
abuts the property proposed to be vacated, the notice to be mailed at least ten
days prior to the date of the public hearing.
   (C)   The notice by publication shall be substantially as follows.
 
NOTICE OF A PUBLIC HEARING REGARDING THE VACATION OF [DESCRIBE PUBLIC WAY TO BE
VACATED]
 
The purpose of this hearing is for the consideration of the vacation of the
following public way or public place:
 
(Herein describe the property legally and commonly)
 
The public hearing on the proposed action will be held on the ________day of
_________________________________, 20____, at _______ o’clock __.m. at the
Elberfeld Town Hall, 175 Sycamore St., Elberfeld, Indiana.
 
________________________________
Elberfeld Clerk-Treasurer
 
   (D)   The notice by certified mail shall be substantially as follows.
 
   To Whom It May Concern:
 
Persons owning or having an interest in any lots or parts of lots contiguous to
a public way or public place commonly referred to as ________________ have
petitioned the Elberfeld Town Council to vacate the aforesaid public way or
public place. It is required by law that a public hearing be held regarding
this vacation, at which time any person aggrieved by the proposed vacation may
object on the basis of certain grounds which are set forth in I.C. 36-7-3-13.
The public hearing on this proposed action will be held on the _____ day of
___________, 20____, at _______ o’clock __.m., Elberfeld Town Hall, 175
Sycamore St., Elberfeld, Indiana.
 
____________________________
Elberfeld Clerk-Treasurer
 
   (E)   The petitioner shall be responsible for the costs of providing notice
as required herein.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed - -2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see I.C. 36-7-3-13
§ 150.17 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The ordinance of vacation shall, omitting formal parts, be
substantially as follows.
 
   Ordinance No. 20___-___
   
AN ORDINANCE TO VACATE CERTAIN PUBLIC WAYS OR PUBLIC PLACES WITHIN THE TOWN OF
ELBERFELD, INDIANA, [DESCRIBE PUBLIC WAY TO BE VACATED]
 
BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Elberfeld, Indiana, as follows,
to-wit:
 
   Section I. That pursuant to Ordinance, a sworn petition was presented to the
Town Council, requesting that the public place or public way described in Section
III below be vacated.
 
   Section II. That after due and proper notice, a timely public hearing was
convened by the Town Council, at which time all interested persons were permitted
to address the Town Council regarding said vacation.
 
   Section III. That the Town Council of the Town of Elberfeld, after due
investigation and consideration, has determined that the nature and extent of the
public use and the public interest to be subserved is such as to warrant the
vacation of that part of the public way or public place described as follows, and
further indicated by the words “To Be Vacated” on the drawing hereto attached,
which is made a part of this Ordinance.
 
   [Here insert legal description]
 
   Section IV. That the vacation of said public way or public place described in
Section III above, is subject to an easement in favor of (herein designate any
public utilities that are requesting an easement), said easement is more
particularly described as follows: (Note: Omit this section in total or in part,
if inapplicable).
 
   [Here insert easement description, if any]
 
   Therefore, the Town Council of the Town of Elberfeld, Indiana, does hereby find
the above-described public way or public place is no longer required for public
use, and the public interest will be served by such vacation, and the Town Council
of the Town of Elberfeld does hereby vacate that portion of the public way or
public place described in Section III above, subject to the terms and conditions
as stated in this Ordinance.
 
   (B)   Upon passage of the ordinance of vacation, the Clerk-Treasurer shall
furnish a copy of the ordinance to the County Recorder for recording and to the
County Auditor.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed - -2017)
§ 150.18 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Notwithstanding this subchapter, vacation proceedings do not deprive a
public utility of the use of all or part of a public way or public ground to be
vacated if, at the time the proceedings are instituted, the utility is
occupying and using all or part of that public way or public ground for the
location and operation of its facilities. However, the utility may waive its
rights under this section by filing its written consent in the vacation
proceedings.
(Ord. 2017-7, passed - -2017)
CHAPTER 151: DISASTER PREVENTION
Section
   
151.01   Adoption of the Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF THE MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the Warrick County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan
as an official plan.
   (B)   The County Department of Homeland Security will submit, on behalf of
the participating municipalities, the adopted Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan to
the State Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management
Agency for final review and approval.
(Res. 2022-8, passed 11-29-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   IMPROVEMENTS AND BONDS
      
II.   AGREEMENTS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
IV.   STREET VACATIONS
TABLE I: IMPROVEMENTS AND BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2010-2   3-3-2010    Rehabilitation and reconstruction of sanitary sewer lines
                     and like improvements.
2018-1   4-17-2018   Sewer extensions, improvements, and construction,
                     including bond.
                    
 
TABLE II: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2006-1   2-20-2006   Establishes fire protection territory and agreement with
                     Greer Township.
                    
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2010-4   7-19-2010   Land reclassified from “C-1” to “R-1A.”
2019-5   8-20-2020   Boundaries of R-2 zoning reclassified.
                    
 
TABLE IV: STREET VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date   Description
         Passed
2015-4   - -    Vacation of Pine Street and a portion of an alley in Kampe’s
                Addition.
2017-5   9-20-  Vacation of alley located between Walnut Street and Main
         2017   Street.
               
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites       Code Section
1-1-1-5          10.04
1-1-1-7          10.12
1-1-1-8          10.06
1-1-4-5          10.05
1-1-5-1          10.11
1-1-6-1          10.08
Title 3          31.15
3-5-2-40.1       31.15
3-10-7-2.7(c)(1) 30.01
3-10-7-2.7(c)(2) 30.01
3-10-7-2.7(c)(3) 30.01
5-2-8-2          32.02
5-3-1 et seq.    93.06
5-10-8-1         31.16
5-11-1-10        31.17
5-11-1-21        31.17
5-11-1-27        31.17
5-11-1-27(c)     31.17
5-11-13-1        31.15
5-22             31.15
8-1-26           150.01
8-1.5-3-8.1      51.08
8-1.5-3-8.2      51.08
8-1.5-3-8.3      51.08
8-1.5-6          51.01
9-22-1           93.04
9-22-1-1 et seq. 93.01;
                 93.06
9-22-1-4         93.08
10-14-3-12       30.03
10-14-3-29       30.03
14-16-1          71.20;
                 71.22
14-16-1-20(c)    71.20
14-16-1-21       71.24
14-16-1-23       71.23;
                 71.24
14-16-1-23(a)(7) 71.23
14-16-1-24       71.23
22-9-1-4 et seq. 94.02
22-9.5-1 et seq. 94.01
22-9.5-2-2       94.02
22-9.5-2-3       94.02
22-9.5-2-4       94.02
22-9.5-2-8       94.02
22-9.5-2-9       94.02
22-9.5-2-11      94.02
22-9.5-2-13      94.02
22-9.5-3         94.02
22-9.5-3 et seq. 94.10
22-9.5-4-8       94.11
22-9.5-5         94.02
22-9.5-5-1       94.02
22-9.5-6         94.02;
                 94.11
22-11-14-1       91.01
25-37-1-2        110.01
35-44.1-1-4      31.15
35-47-2-3        32.02
36-1-3-8(a)(10)  10.99
36-1-6           92.02
36-1-12          31.15
36-5-2-4.1(h)    11.02
36-5-6-6         31.02
36-7-3-13        150.16
36-7-9           92.35
36-7-9-2         92.37
36-7-9-4         92.36
36-8-3-4         31.03
36-8-3-20        31.03
36-9-15.5        32.03
36-9-23-26.1     51.08
                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2022-06  - -         30.03
2021-2   11-16-2021  30.02
2022-01  3-12-2022   11.01
2022-4   4-19-2022   31.18
2022-8   11-29-2022  151.01
2024-01  1-23-2024   32.05
2024-02  3-19-2024   32.06
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1992-4   - -         32.03
2015-4   - -         TSO, Table IV
                     50.01—
2005-2   5-16-2005   50.08;
                     50.99
2006-1   2-20-2006   TSO, Table II
                     110.01—
2006-2   6-19-2006   110.07;
                     110.99
2007-2   5-21-2007   51.21
2007-3   5-21-2007   51.25
2007-4   5-21-2007   32.01
2007-5   5-21-2007   32.02
2009-4   7-10-2009   30.02
2010-2   3-3-2010    TSO, Table I
2010-4   7-19-2010   TSO, Table III
2010-5   8-16-2010   90.02;
                     90.99
2010-6   12-15-2010  32.20—
                     32.26
2011-1   2-24-2011   92.05;
                     92.99
2011-3   6-20-2011   31.02
                     91.15—
2011-4   7-18-2011   91.22;
                     91.99
2011-5   7-18-2011   70.02;
                     70.99
2012-1   -18-2012    31.03
2012-2   6-18-2012   31.15
2012-4   7-16-2012   11.02
2012-7   12-17-2012  31.04
2013-1   1-22-2013   31.16
2013-4   6-17-2013   91.01
2014-1   4-22-2014   30.01
2014-2   6-17-2014   51.09
                     71.20—
2014-3   7-31-2014   71.25;
                     71.99
2014-4   11-13-2014  70.01
                     92.01—
                     92.04;
                     92.06—
                     92.08;
2015-3   9-15-2015   92.20—
                     92.24;
                     92.99;
                     93.01—
                     93.10
2016-2   5-26-2016   51.01
2016-4   6-21-2016   31.17
                     94.01—
2016-6   7-19-2016   94.11;
                     94.99
2017-7   - -2017     150.15—
                     150.18
2017-2   2-21-2017   31.19
2017-5   9-20-2017   TSO, Table IV
                     51.04—
2017-6   11-21-2017  51.08;
                     51.21—
                     51.26
2018-1   4-17-2018   TSO, Table I
2019-3   3-19-2019   32.03
2019-2   4-16-2019   51.03
2020-1   4-21-2020   90.01
2019-5   8-20-2020   TSO, Table III
2020-4   12-15-2020  92.35—
                     92.38
2021-1   1-19-2021   150.01
2021-2   6-22-2021   32.04
2021-4   8-17-2021   32.04
2021-5   9-21-2021   51.02
                     71.01—
2022-02  9-27-2022   71.08;
                     71.99
2022-04  11-29-2022  51.20
2022-6   12-20-2022  31.01
                     51.02;
                     51.05;
2024-1   1-23-2024   51.06;
                     51.20—
                     51.26
                    
 
