TOWN OF ELNORA, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 04-2024, passed 6-5-2024;
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service,
2024 Acts, Pamphlet No. 1
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Town Code of
Elnora, Indiana”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Council.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council of Elnora, Indiana.
      COUNTY. The County of Daviess, State of Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any division prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that chapter,
subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
32.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
35.   TOWN POLICIES
      
36.   TOWN EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation of officers and employees
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Officers and employees of the town shall be compensated at a rate as
established by Town Council ordinance from time to time.
Cross-reference:
   Budgets, see §§
33.20 through
33.22
CHAPTER 31: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Term of office
   
31.002   Residency required
   
31.003   Powers and duties
   
31.004   President
Meetings; General Provisions
   
31.015   Open meetings
   
31.016   Executive sessions
   
31.017   Notice of meetings
   
31.018   Agenda
   
31.019   Record of meetings
   
31.020   Quorum
   
31.021   Clerk of Council; tie-breaking vote
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
31.035   Presiding officer
   
31.036   Quorum for conducting business
   
31.037   Absence of President
   
31.038   Duties of the President
   
31.039   Duties of Councilmembers
   
31.040   Seconding of motions required
   
31.041   Withdrawal of motions
   
31.042   Division of questions
   
31.043   Record of motions
   
31.044   Vote
   
31.045   Precedence of motion
   
31.046   Undebatable motions and exceptions to order
   
31.047   Motion to adjourn
   
31.048   Motion to postpone indefinitely
   
31.049   Motion to amend
   
31.050   Amendments
   
31.051   Reconsideration
   
31.052   Petitioners
   
31.053   Reports, communications, petitions and the like
   
31.054   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised
   
31.055   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
31.070   Majority vote; when required
   
31.071   Two-thirds vote; when required
   
31.072   Date of adoption; publication
   
31.073   Record of ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 36-5-2-3(b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g),
the term of office of a member of the Town Council is four years, beginning at
12:00 p.m. January 1 after the member’s election and continuing until the
member’s successor is elected and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-2-3(a))
§ 31.002 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A member of the Town Council must reside within:
      (1)   The town as provided in Indiana Constitution, Article 6, § 6; and
      (2)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
   (B)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (C)   A member of the Town Council who is elected by the voters of the
entire town but is elected or selected as a candidate from a district forfeits
office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district.
   (D)   An at-large member of the Town Council forfeits office if the member
ceases to be a resident of the town.
(I.C. 36-5-2-6)
§ 31.003 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Council may:
   (A)   Adopt ordinances and resolutions for the performance of functions of
the town;
   (B)   Purchase, hold and convey any interest in property for the use of the
town; and
   (C)   Adopt and use a common seal.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9)
§ 31.004 PRESIDENT.
   The Town Council shall select one of its members to be its President for a
definite term, which may not exceed the member’s term of office as a member of
the Town Council.
(I.C. 36-5-2-7)
MEETINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.015 OPEN MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held in accordance with state law
regarding open meetings, being I.C. 5-14-1.5.
§ 31.016 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC OFFICIAL means a person:
      (1)   Who is a member of a governing body of a public agency; or
      (2)   Whose tenure and compensation are fixed by law and who executes an
oath.
   (B)   Executive sessions may be held only in the following instances:
      (1)   Where authorized by federal or state statute;
      (2)   (a)   For discussion of strategy with respect to any of the
following:
            1.    Collective bargaining, which does not include a discussion or
meeting under I.C. 20-29-6-7;
            2.   Initiation of litigation or litigation that is either pending
or has been threatened specifically in writing. As used in this division (B)(2)
(a)2., “litigation” includes any judicial action or administrative law
proceeding under federal or state law;
            3.   The implementation of security systems;
            4.    A real property transaction including:
               a.   A purchase;
               b.   A lease as lessor;
               c.   A lease as lessee;
               d.   A transfer;
               e.   An exchange; or
               f.   A sale;
by the Town Council up to the time a contract or option is executed by the
parties. This clause does not affect a political subdivision’s duty to comply
with any other statute that governs the conduct of the real property
transaction, including I.C. 36-1-10 or I.C. 36-1-11; or
            5.   School consolidation.
         (b)   However, all such strategy discussions must be necessary for
competitive or bargaining reasons and may not include competitive or bargaining
adversaries.
      (3)   For discussion of the assessment, design and implementation of
school safety and security measures, plans and systems;
      (4)   Interviews and negotiations with industrial or commercial prospects
or agents of industrial or commercial prospects by:
         (a)   The Indiana Economic Development Corporation;
         (b)    The Office of Tourism Development (before July 1, 2020) or the
Indiana Destination Development Corporation (after June 30, 2020);
         (c)   The Indiana Finance Authority;
         (d)   The ports of Indiana;
         (e)   An Economic Development Commission;
         (f)   The Indiana State Department of Agriculture;
          (g)   The Indiana White River State Park Development Commission;
         (h)   A local economic development organization that is a non-profit
corporation established under state law whose primary purpose is the promotion
of industrial or business development in Indiana, the retention or expansion of
Indiana business or the development of entrepreneurial activities in Indiana;
or
         (i)   A governing body of a political subdivision.
      (5)   To receive information about and interview prospective employees;
      (6)   With respect to any individual over whom the Town Council has
jurisdiction:
         (a)   To receive information concerning the individual’s alleged
misconduct; and
         (b)   To discuss, before a determination, the individual’s status as
an employee, a student, or an independent contractor who is a physician or a
school bus driver.
      (7)   For discussion of records classified as confidential by state or
federal statute;
      (8)   To discuss before a placement decision an individual student’s
abilities, past performance, behavior and needs;
      (9)   To discuss a job performance evaluation of individual employees.
This division (B)(9) does not apply to a discussion of the salary, compensation
or benefits of employees during a budget process;
      (10)   When considering the appointment of a public official, to do the
following:
         (a)   Develop a list of prospective appointees;
         (b)   Consider applications;
         (c)   Make one initial exclusion of prospective appointees from
further consideration; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding I.C. 5-14-3-4(b)(12), the Town Council may
release and shall make available for inspection and copying in accordance with
I.C. 5-14-3-3 identifying information concerning prospective appointees not
initially excluded from further consideration. An initial exclusion of
prospective appointees from further consideration may not reduce the number of
prospective appointees to fewer than three unless there are fewer than three
prospective appointees. Interviews of prospective appointees must be conducted
at a meeting that is open to the public.
      (11)   To train Town Council members with an outside consultant about the
performance of the role of its members as public officials;
      (12)   To prepare or score examinations used in issuing licenses,
certificates, permits or registrations under I.C. 25;
      (13)   To discuss information and intelligence intended to prevent,
mitigate or respond to the threat of terrorism; and
      (14)   To train members of a board of aviation commissioners appointed
under I.C. 8-22-2 or members of an airport authority board appointed under I.C.
8-22-3 with an outside consultant about the performance of the role of the
members as public officials. A board may hold not more than one executive
session per calendar year under this division.
   (C)   A final action must be taken at a meeting open to the public.
   (D)   Public notice of executive sessions must state the subject matter by
specific reference to the enumerated instance or instances for which executive
sessions may be held under division (B) above. The requirements stated in §
31.019 for memoranda and minutes being made available to the public is modified
as to executive sessions in that the memoranda and minutes must identify the
subject matter considered by specific reference to the enumerated instance or
instances for which public notice was given. The Town Council shall certify by
a statement in the memoranda and minutes of the Town Council that no subject
matter was discussed in the executive session other than the subject matter
specified in the public notice.
   (E)   The Town Council may not conduct an executive session during a
meeting, except as otherwise permitted by applicable statute. A meeting may not
be recessed and reconvened with the intent of circumventing this division (E).
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1)
§ 31.017 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Town Council shall be held at a time and place
established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Public notice of the date, time and place of any meetings, executive
sessions or of any rescheduled or reconvened meeting shall be given by the Town
Council by posting a copy of the notice at the principal office of the Town
Council, or if no such office exists, at the building where the meeting is to
be held.
§ 31.018 AGENDA.
   (A)   The Town Council, when utilizing an agenda, shall post a copy of the
agenda at the entrance to the location of the meeting prior to the meeting. A
rule, regulation, ordinance or other final action adopted by reference to
agenda number or item alone is void.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(a))
   (B)   The Town Council shall designate a person who shall prepare the agenda
for each meeting.
§ 31.019 RECORD OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   As the meeting progresses, the following memoranda shall be kept:
      (1)   The date, time and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the Town Council recorded as either present or
absent;
      (3)   The general substance of all matters proposed, discussed or
decided;
      (4)   A record of all votes taken, by individual members if there is a
roll call; and
      (5)   Any additional information required under I.C. 5-14-1.5-3.5 or 5-
14-1.5-3.6 of this chapter or any other statute that authorizes a governing
body to conduct a meeting using an electronic means of communication.
   (B)   The memoranda are to be available within a reasonable period of time
after the meeting for the purpose of informing the public of the Town Council’s
proceedings. The minutes, if any, are to be open for public inspection and
copying.
(I.C. 5-14-1.5-4(b) and (c))
§ 31.020 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the elected members of the Town Council constitutes a
quorum.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.2)
§ 31.021 CLERK OF COUNCIL; TIE-BREAKING VOTE.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is the Clerk of the Town Council.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is an ex officio member for the purpose of casting
the deciding vote to break a tie.
(I.C. 36-5-2-8)
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 31.035 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Council President shall take the chair at the hour appointed, or to
which the Council shall have adjourned, and shall immediately call the members
to order; whereupon, the Clerk of Council shall proceed to call the roll of
members. If a quorum is present, the Clerk of Council shall so announce and the
Council shall proceed with the order of business.
Cross-reference:
   Election of Council President, see §
31.004
   Town Clerk-Treasurer serves as Clerk of Council, see §
31.021
§ 31.036 QUORUM FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS.
   (A)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the entire Council. A quorum
shall be necessary to transact the business of the Town Council.
   (B)   If no quorum is present, the Council shall not thereby stand
adjourned, but the members present shall adjourn or recess the Council by a
majority vote.
§ 31.037 ABSENCE OF PRESIDENT.
   At any meeting of the Council where a majority shall be assembled, and if
the President is temporarily absent but within or near the community, the Clerk
of Council shall preside and call the roll, whereupon the Council shall elect a
Temporary Chairperson from its membership. In the event that the absence of the
President shall be of a more permanent nature, a President Pro Tem shall be
elected.
§ 31.038 DUTIES OF THE PRESIDENT.
   (A)   The President shall serve as the Chair, shall preserve order and
decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other members, and
shall decide all questions of order subject to appeal.
   (B)   If the President refuses to allow the Councilmembers to exercise their
right to appeal a decision of the Chair, the Councilmembers may consider and
pass upon the matter in spite of the Chair’s failure to grant them appeal.
   (C)   The President shall have the power to require the Council room to be
cleared, or to have any disorderly person or persons ejected, in case of any
disturbances or disorderly conduct which prevent the meeting from being
continued in an orderly manner.
   (D)   Nothing in this code shall preclude the President from making or
seconding a motion, or from voting on any matters coming before the Council.
§ 31.039 DUTIES OF COUNCILMEMBERS.
   (A)   While the President is stating the motion, or deciding a point of
order, the members shall be seated and no member shall leave the Council room
during the session without permission from the presiding officer.
   (B)   Every member, prior to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address the presiding officer and shall not proceed
with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair.
   (C)   A member so recognized by the Chair shall confine himself or herself
to the question under debate.
   (D)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except by
permission of the Chair, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so.
   (E)   No member shall speak longer than five minutes at any one time, except
by consent of the Chair.
   (F)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   A member, when called to order by the Chair, shall thereupon
discontinue speaking. The order or ruling of the Chair shall be binding and
conclusive, subject only to the right to appeal.
   (H)   Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair and,
if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal may briefly state his
or her reason for the same, and the Chair may briefly explain his or her
ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other member shall
participate in the discussion. The Chair shall then put the question, “Shall
the decision of the Chair be overruled?” Otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   The right of a member to address the Council on a question of personal
privilege shall be limited to cases in which his or her integrity, character or
motives are assailed, questioned or impugned.
§ 31.040 SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED.
   No motion shall be put or debated in the Council or in committee unless it
be seconded. When a motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding
officer before debate.
§ 31.041 WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS.
   After a resolution or a motion is stated by the President, it shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn by the
maker thereof with or without the consent of the Councilmember seconding the
motion prior to the call for the vote by the President.
§ 31.042 DIVISION OF QUESTIONS.
   If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions,
the Council, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide the
questions.
§ 31.043 RECORD OF MOTIONS.
   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered in the journal, the
names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be entered.
§ 31.044 VOTE.
   (A)   The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances
and on all propositions to create any liability against the town, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and upon any question and in all
other cases at the request of any member of the Council. When the Clerk of
Council has commenced to call the roll of the Council for the taking of a vote
by “Ayes” and “Nays,” all debate on the question before the Council shall be
deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote a member shall be permitted
to briefly explain his or her vote and shall respond to the calling of his or
her name by the Clerk of Council by answering “Aye” or “Nay,” as the case may
be.
   (B)   The names of each member of the Council shall be listed on the
official copy of every ordinance passed indicating specifically the names of
those voting “Aye” and those voting “Nay.”
   (C)   An abstention is neither an affirmative vote nor a negative vote.
Regardless of the number of abstentions, and except as otherwise provided by
law, an affirmative vote of the majority of the Councilmembers is required to
pass a motion, ordinance, resolution, or other action of the Town Council.
   (D)   The President shall announce the result of the Council’s vote and the
votes shall be entered in the journal of the proceedings.
Cross-reference:
   Two-thirds vote; when required, see §
31.071
§ 31.045 PRECEDENCE OF MOTION.
   When a question is before the Council, no motion shall be received, except
as specified in this section, and which shall have precedence in the following
order:
   (A)   To fix the time to which to adjourn;
   (B)   To adjourn;
   (C)   To take a recess;
   (D)   To raise a question of privilege;
   (E)   To call for the orders of the day;
   (F)   To lay on the table;
   (G)   To call for the previous question;
   (H)   To postpone to a certain time;
   (I)   To refer to committee;
   (J)   To amend;
   (K)   To postpone indefinitely; and
   (L)   To the main motion.
§ 31.046 UNDEBATABLE MOTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS TO ORDER.
   The motion to adjourn or to lay on the table shall be decided without
debate, and the motion to fix the time to which to adjourn and the motion to
adjourn shall always be in order, except:
   (A)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
   (B)   When the roll call votes are being called;
   (C)   While the members are voting;
   (D)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
   (E)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
§ 31.047 MOTION TO ADJOURN.
   A motion to adjourn cannot be amended; but a motion to adjourn to a given
day or time shall be open to amendment and debate.
§ 31.048 MOTION TO POSTPONE INDEFINITELY.
   When a question is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be taken up again
before the next regular meeting.
§ 31.049 MOTION TO AMEND.
   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but a motion to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
§ 31.050 AMENDMENTS.
   Only one amendment at a time may be offered to any question before the
Council. The vote shall first be taken on the amendment and, if the amendment
passes, then further amendments may be proposed. Finally, a vote shall be taken
on the principal motion as finally amended.
§ 31.051 RECONSIDERATION.
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed. A matter once having been decided and a motion to reconsider the
matter having been defeated, it may nonetheless come before the Council at a
future time by way of a motion to rescind or as a new motion. If the Chair
determines that new facts are to be presented to the Council, or that there is
a likelihood that the Council will reverse its previous decision, the Chair
shall rule the motion in order. If a motion is continuously brought before the
Council and rejected, the Chair may rule its reintroduction under a motion to
rescind or as a new motion to be out of order.
   (B)   No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the recommendation
of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be entertained
except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken or after the
matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further hearing and
recommendation.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless otherwise
provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received a majority
vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground that a
greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the passage or
adoption of the motion, then in that case a motion to reconsider may be made
and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on the question to be
reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the same, no new information is
forthcoming, and the rights of third parties have not intervened.
§ 31.052 PETITIONERS.
   Except during the time allotted for public discussion and comments, no
person other than a member of the Council shall address that body, except with
the consent of a majority of the members present.
§ 31.053 REPORTS, COMMUNICATIONS, PETITIONS AND THE LIKE.
   All communications, reports, petitions or any other papers addressed to the
Council shall be made available to the Clerk of Council prior to the meeting.
The Clerk of Council shall endeavor to distribute copies or read the material
to the members of the Council.
§ 31.054 ADOPTION OF ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER, REVISED.
   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published
edition of Robert’s Rules of Order, revised, shall govern the Council in all
cases to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with
the ordinances of the town, including these rules, or the statutes of the
state.
§ 31.055 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The rules of the Council may be temporarily suspended, altered or amended,
by concurrence of a majority vote of all the Councilmembers then in office.
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 31.070 MAJORITY VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(a))
   (B)   A majority vote of the Town Council is required to pass an ordinance
unless a greater vote is required by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.6)
Cross-reference:
   Effect of abstentions, see §
31.049
§ 31.071 TWO-THIRDS VOTE; WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
Town Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-thirds vote of
all the elected members.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.4(b))
   (B)   A two-thirds vote of all the elected members, after unanimous consent
of the members present to consider the ordinance, is required to pass an
ordinance of the Town Council on the same day or at the same meeting at which
it is introduced.
   (C)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following:
      (1)   A zoning ordinance or an amendment to a zoning ordinance adopted
under I.C. 36-7; or
      (2)   An ordinance to increase the number of Town Councilmembers adopted
under I.C. 36-5-2-4.2, unless the ordinance also establishes new Town Council
districts.
(I.C. 36-5-2-9.8)
§ 31.072 DATE OF ADOPTION; PUBLICATION.
   (A)   An ordinance, order or resolution passed by the Town Council is
considered adopted when it is signed by the President of Council. If required
by statute, an adopted ordinance, order or resolution must be promulgated or
published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-3-
1 unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C) below; or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in:
         (a)   One public place in each district in the town; or
         (b)   A number of public places in the town equal to the number of
Town Councilmembers, if the town has abolished Town Council districts under
I.C. 36-5-2-4.1.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E) below, if the town publishes any of
its ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If
an ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division (C), it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division (C), if authorized by the
Town Council, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   The ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded and
approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F) below) does not apply to a
zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving
a comprehensive plan, that is adopted under I.C. 36-7.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published one time in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1, and not later
than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the Town Council in accordance
with I.C. 5-3-1; and
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Subject to division (J) below, the Town Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G) below, give written notice to the
Department of Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment
or repeal of an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the Town Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1)
above.
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the Town Council must state the notice requirements of division (F) above.
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) above does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) above apply only if the
municipal corporation received under I.C. 13-25-5-8.5(f) written notice that
the department is relying on the environmental restrictive ordinance referred
to in division (F) above as part of a risk based remediation proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the department; and
      (2)   Conducted under I.C. 13-22, I.C. 13-23, I.C. 13-24, I.C. 13-25-4 or
I.C. 13-25-5.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10)
§ 31.073 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after an ordinance of the Town Council is
adopted, the Clerk- Treasurer shall record it in a book kept for that purpose.
The record must include:
      (1)   The signature of the President of Council;
      (2)   The attestation of the Clerk-Treasurer; and
      (3)   The date of each recorded item.
   (B)   The record or a certified copy of it constitutes presumptive evidence
of the adoption of the ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-2-10.2)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Clerk-Treasurer
   
32.01   Residency requirement
   
32.02   Election; term of office
   
32.03   Powers and duties
   
32.04   Deputies and employees
   
32.05   Office space
   
32.06   Vacancy in office
Town Marshal
   
32.20   Appointment; compensation
   
32.21   Removal from office; discipline
   
32.22   Powers and duties
   
32.23   Service as Street Commissioner and Fire Chief
   
32.24   Deputy marshals; Humane Officer
   
32.25   Body armor
CLERK-TREASURER
§ 32.01 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Clerk-Treasurer must reside within the town as provided in Indiana
Constitution Article 6, § 6. The Clerk-Treasurer forfeits office if the Clerk-
Treasurer ceases to be a resident of the town. An individual who resides in
territory that is annexed by the town before the election is considered a
resident of the town for purposes of this section, even if the annexation took
effect less than one year before the election.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(a))
§ 32.02 ELECTION; TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Election. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be elected under I.C. 3-10-6 or 3-
10-7 by the voters of the whole town.
(I.C. 36-5-6-4)
   (B)   Term of office. Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6-3(c), (d), (e) or
(f), the term of office of the Clerk-Treasurer is four years, beginning at 12:
00 p.m. on January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected
and qualified.
(I.C. 36-5-6-3(b))
§ 32.03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)    Except as provided in I.C. 36-5-6.5, the Clerk-Treasurer is both the
Town Clerk and the Town Fiscal Officer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-2)
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer may administer oaths, take depositions and take
acknowledgments of instruments required by statute to be acknowledged.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5)
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall do the following:
      (1)   Receive and care for all town money and pay the money out only on
order of the Town Council;
      (2)   Keep accounts showing when and from what sources the Clerk-
Treasurer has received town money, and when and to whom the Clerk-Treasurer has
paid out town money;
      (3)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all town offices;
      (4)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers and employees
shall be paid;
      (5)   Manage the finances and accounts of the town and make investments
of town money;
      (6)   Prepare for the Town Council the budget estimates of miscellaneous
revenue, financial statements and the proposed tax rate;
      (7)   Maintain custody of the town seal and the records of the Town
Council;
      (8)   Issue all licenses authorized by statute and collect the fees fixed
by ordinance;
      (9)   Serve as Clerk of the Town Council by attending its meetings and
recording its proceedings;
      (10)   Administer oaths, take depositions and take acknowledgment of
instruments that are required by statute to be acknowledged, without charging a
fee;
      (11)   Serve as clerk of the town court under I.C. 33-35-3-2, if the
judge of the court does not serve as clerk of the court or appoint a clerk of
the court under I.C. 33-35-3-1; and
      (12)   Perform all other duties prescribed by statute.
(I.C. 36-5-6-6)
§ 32.04 DEPUTIES AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint the number of deputies and employees
needed for the effective operation of the office, with the approval of the Town
Council. The Clerk-Treasurer’s deputies and employees serve at the Clerk-
Treasurer’s pleasure.
   (B)   If the town owns a utility and the Clerk-Treasurer is directly
responsible for the billing and collection of that utility’s rates and charges,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall appoint those employees who are also responsible for
that billing and collection. These employees serve at the Clerk-Treasurer’s
pleasure.
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   (1)   If the Clerk-Treasurer is unable to perform the fiscal
requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position, the town shall hire or contract
with a qualified certified public accountant to:
         (a)   Provide guidance to the Clerk-Treasurer regarding the
performance of the Clerk-Treasurer’s responsibilities; or
         (b)   Perform the Clerk-Treasurer’s fiscal responsibilities.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is considered to be unable to perform the
fiscal requirements of the Clerk-Treasurer’s position if the town is declared
unauditable under I.C. 5-11-1-9(b).
(I.C. 36-5-6-7)
   (C)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer may hire or contract with competent
attorneys or legal research assistants on terms the Clerk-Treasurer considers
appropriate.
      (2)   Appropriations for the salaries of attorneys and legal research
assistants employed under this division (C) shall be approved in the annual
budget and must be allocated to the Clerk-Treasurer for the payment of
attorneys’ and legal research assistants’ salaries.
(I.C. 36-5-6-8)
§ 32.05 OFFICE SPACE.
   If office space exists in a building owned or leased by the town, the Town
Council shall provide suitable office space for the Clerk-Treasurer and staff
and records of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(I.C. 36-5-6-5.1)
§ 32.06 VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   This section applies if the office of Town Clerk-Treasurer is vacant
and the Town Council is unable to fill the office under I.C. 3-13-9-3.
   (B)   The Town Council may select a Town Councilmember, who shall assume the
duties of the office of Clerk-Treasurer. For purposes of Indiana Constitution
Article 2, § 9 and state law, if a Town Councilmember serves as the ex officio
Clerk-Treasurer, the duties assumed by the Town Councilmember:
      (1)   Are considered part of the duties prescribed by law for the office
of Town Councilmember; and
      (2)   Are not considered a second office. A Town Councilmember may not
receive any additional compensation for assuming the duties of the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (C)    The Town Council may either:
      (1)   Enter into an interlocal agreement under I.C. 36-1-7 with the Town
Clerk-Treasurer and Town Council of another town in the state to assist the
Town Councilmember selected under division (B) above in performing the duties
of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, provided that the agreement may not last
longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term and must meet
the requirements of I.C. 36-1-7; or
      (2)   Enter into a contract with a certified public accountant to assist
the Town Councilmember selected under division (B) above in performing the
duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office, provided that the contract may not last
longer than the remainder of the vacant Clerk-Treasurer’s term.
   (D)   If, after reasonable diligence, the town is unable to meet the
requirements under division (C) above, the town may hire any qualified person
to perform the duties of the Clerk-Treasurer’s office until the vacancy can be
filled under I.C. 3-13-9-3, or until the end of the current Clerk-Treasurer’s
term, whichever is first.
(I.C. 36-5-6-9)
TOWN MARSHAL
§ 32.20 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Town Council shall appoint the Town Marshal and shall fix his or her
compensation.
(I.C. 36-5-7-2)
§ 32.21 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE; DISCIPLINE.
   The Town Marshal serves at the pleasure of the Town Council. However, before
terminating or suspending a Town Marshal who has been employed by the town for
more than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9, the Town
Council must conduct the disciplinary removal and appeals procedures prescribed
by I.C. 36-8 for municipal fire and police departments.
(I.C. 36-5-7-3)
§ 32.22 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Marshal is the chief police officer of the town and has the
powers of other law enforcement officers in executing the orders of the Town
Council and enforcing laws.
   (B)   The Town Marshal or his or her deputy:
      (1)   Shall serve all process directed to him or her by the Town Court or
Town Council;
      (2)   Shall arrest without process all persons who commit an offense
within his or her view, take them before a court having jurisdiction, and
detain them in custody until the cause of the arrest has been investigated;
      (3)   Shall suppress breaches of the peace;
      (4)   May, if necessary, call the power of the town to his or her aid;
      (5)   May execute search warrants and arrest warrants; and
      (6)   May pursue and jail persons who commit an offense.
(I.C. 36-5-7-4)
§ 32.23 SERVICE AS STREET COMMISSIONER AND FIRE CHIEF.
   The Town Council may require the Town Marshal to serve as the Street
Commissioner, Chief of the Fire Department, or both.
(I.C. 36-5-7-5)
§ 32.24 DEPUTY MARSHALS; HUMANE OFFICER.
   (A) The Town Council shall by ordinance fix the number of deputy marshals.
The Town Council may by ordinance authorize the Town Marshal to appoint deputy
marshals. Deputy marshals have the powers and liabilities of the Town Marshal
in executing the orders of the Town Council or enforcing laws.
   (B)   One deputy marshal may be designated as the Town Humane Officer. He or
she has the duties prescribed by I.C. 36-8 for municipal humane officers.
   (C)   The Town Council shall fix the amount of bond, compensation and term
of service of deputy marshals. The Town Marshal may dismiss a deputy marshal at
any time. However, a deputy marshal who has been employed by the town for more
than six months after completing the minimum basic training requirements
adopted by the Law Enforcement Training Board under I.C. 5-2-1-9 may be
dismissed only if the procedure prescribed by §
32.21 is followed.
(I.C. 36-5-7-6)
§ 32.25 BODY ARMOR.
   (A)   As used in this section, BODY ARMOR has the meaning set forth in I.C.
35-47-5-13(a).
   (B)   After December 31, 2010, a town shall provide the Town Marshal and
active deputy marshals of the town with body armor for the torso. The town
shall replace the body armor for the torso according to the replacement period
recommended by the manufacturer of the body armor for the torso.
   (C)   The Town Marshal and active deputy marshals of the town may not be
required to pay for maintenance of the body armor for the torso furnished under
this section.
   (D)   Body armor for the torso provided by a town under this section remains
the property of the town. The town may sell the property when it becomes unfit
for use, and all money received shall be paid into the General Fund of the
town.
(I.C. 36-5-7-7)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
Disbursement of Funds
   
33.01   Appropriation required
   
33.02   Issue of warrants
   
33.03   Allowance of claims
   
33.04   Warrants for payment of claims
   
33.05   Payment of compensation to officer or employee prior to vacation leave
   
33.06   Claim payments in advance of allowance
   
33.07   Transfer of funds
   
33.08   Permissive expenses for municipal promotion
Budgets
   
33.20   Preparation of annual budget estimates
   
33.21   Preparation and approval of ordinance fixing tax rate; making annual
appropriations
   
33.22   Increase or decrease of appropriations after approval of ordinance
DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS
§ 33.01 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   Unless a statute provides otherwise, town monies may be disbursed only after
an appropriation made by ordinance of the Town Council and recorded in a book
kept for that purpose by the Town Council. Each appropriation must be made from
the fund against which the expenses arose.
(I.C. 36-5-4-2)
§ 33.02 ISSUE OF WARRANTS.
   (A)   The Town Council or a board of the town may order the issuance of
warrants for payment of money by the town only at a meeting of the Town Council
or board.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-3)
§ 33.03 ALLOWANCE OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
33.06, the Town Council or a board of the town may allow a claim:
      (1)   Only at a meeting of the Town Council or board; and
      (2)   Only if the claim was filed in the manner prescribed by I.C. 5-11-
10-2 at least five days before the meeting.
   (B)   A town officer who violates this section forfeits his or her office.
(I.C. 36-5-4-4)
§ 33.04 WARRANTS FOR PAYMENT OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a bill or an invoice submitted
for goods or services.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
33.06, a warrant for payment of a claim against a town may be issued only if
the claim is:
      (1)   Supported by a fully itemized invoice or bill under I.C. 5-11-10-
1.6;
      (2)   Filed with the Town Fiscal Officer;
      (3)   Certified by the Fiscal Officer before payment that each invoice is
true and correct; and
      (4)   Allowed by the Town Council or by the board of the town having
jurisdiction over allowance of the payment of the claim.
   (C)   The certification by the Fiscal Officer under division (B)(3) above
must be on a form prescribed by the State Board of Accounts.
(I.C. 36-5-4-6)
§ 33.05 PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION TO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE PRIOR TO VACATION LEAVE.
   One to three days before the vacation leave period of a town officer or
employee begins, the town may pay him or her the amount of compensation he or
she will earn while he or she is on vacation leave.
(I.C. 36-5-4-7)
§ 33.06 CLAIM PAYMENTS IN ADVANCE OF ALLOWANCE.
   The Town Fiscal Officer may make claim payments in advance of Council
allowance for the following kinds of expenses:
   (A)   Property or services purchased for the U.S. government;
   (B)   Licenses or permit fees;
   (C)   Insurance premiums;
   (D)   Utility payments or connection charges;
   (E)   General grant programs where advance refunding is not prohibited and
contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
   (F)   Grants of state funds;
   (G)   Maintenance or service agreements;
   (H)   Leases or rental agreements;
   (I)   Bond or coupon payments;
   (J)   Payroll;
   (K)   State, federal or county taxes; and
   (L)   Statements that have to be paid to receive discount.
(Ord. 93-2, passed 6-7-1993; Ord. 94-2, passed - -; Ord. 95-2, passed - -)
§ 33.07 TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
   Notwithstanding I.C. 8-14-1 and 8-14-2, the town may transfer money
distributed to the town from the motor vehicle highway account under I.C. 8-14-
1; the local road and street account under I.C. 8-14-2; or the motor vehicle
highway account under I.C. 8-14-1 and the local road and street account under
I.C. 8-14-2 to any other town fund after the passage of an ordinance or a
resolution by the Town Council that specifies the amount of the transfer, the
funds involved, the date of the transfer and the general purpose of the
transfer. However, the total amount of all money transferred by the town under
this section may not exceed $40,000.
(I.C. 36-5-4-13(b))
§ 33.08 PERMISSIVE EXPENSES FOR MUNICIPAL PROMOTION.
   The Town Council is authorized to budget and appropriate funds from the
General Fund of the town to pay expenses of or to reimburse city officials or
town officials as the case may be or expenses incurred in promoting the best
interest of the town. Such expenses may include, but not necessarily be limited
to, rental of meeting places, meals, decoration, beautification of the town,
memorabilia, awards, expenses incurred in interviewing job applicants, expenses
incurred in promoting industrial, commercial and residential development,
expenses incurred in developing relations with other units of government, and
any other expenses of a civic or governmental nature deemed by the Town Council
of Town Councilmembers to be in the interest of the town.
(Ord. 93-4, passed - -)
BUDGETS
§ 33.20 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET ESTIMATES.
   Before the publication (before January 1, 2015) and before the submission of
notice of budget estimates required by I.C. 6-1.1-17-3, the town shall
formulate a budget estimate for the ensuing budget year in the following
manner, unless the town provides by ordinance for a different manner:
   (A)   Each department head shall prepare for the department head’s
department an estimate of the amount of money required for the ensuing budget
year, stating in detail each category and item of expenditure the department
head anticipates;
   (B)   The Town Fiscal Officer shall prepare an itemized estimate of revenues
available for the ensuing budget year, and shall prepare an itemized estimate
of expenditures for other purposes above the money proposed to be used by the
departments;
   (C)   The President of Council shall meet with the department heads and the
Fiscal Officer to review and revise their various estimates; and
   (D)   After the President’s review and revision, the Fiscal Officer shall
prepare for the President a report of the estimated department budgets,
miscellaneous expenses and revenues necessary or available to finance the
estimates.
(I.C. 36-5-3-3)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation of officials and employees, see §
30.01
§ 33.21 PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE FIXING TAX RATE; MAKING ANNUAL
APPROPRIATIONS.
   The Town Fiscal Officer shall present the report of budget estimates to the
Town Council under I.C. 6-1.1-17. After reviewing the report, the Town Council
shall prepare an ordinance fixing the rate of taxation for the ensuing budget
year and an ordinance making appropriations for the estimated department
budgets and other town purposes during the ensuing budget year. The Town
Council, in the appropriation ordinance, may change any estimated item from the
figure submitted in the report of the Fiscal Officer. The Town Council shall
promptly act on the appropriation ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-4)
§ 33.22 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF APPROPRIATIONS AFTER APPROVAL OF ORDINANCE.
   After the passage of the appropriation ordinance, the Town Council may make
further or additional appropriations by ordinance, unless their result is to
increase the tax levy set under I.C. 6-1.1-17. The Town Council may, by
ordinance, decrease any appropriation set by ordinance.
(I.C. 36-5-3-5)
CHAPTER 34: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Establishment
   
34.02   Violations Clerk designated
   
34.03   Duties of Clerk
   
34.04   Schedule of fines
   
34.05   Right to trial
   
34.06   Denial; exercise of the right to trial
   
34.07   Failure to appear or to satisfy assessed civil penalty; report;
prosecution
   
34.08   Court costs fee; admitted violations
   
34.09   Disposition of civil penalties and costs collected
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Town Council may establish, by ordinance or code, an Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
§ 34.02 VIOLATIONS CLERK DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Upon the creation of a bureau, the Town Council shall provide for the
appointment of a Violations Clerk, who may be the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of
the municipality, to be the administrator of the Bureau.
(I.C. 33-36-2-1)
   (B)   If the Town Council does not establish an Ordinance Violations Bureau
under §
34.01, the Clerk or Clerk-Treasurer of the town is designated the Violations
Clerk for purposes of this chapter.
(I.C. 33-36-2-2)
§ 34.03 DUTIES OF CLERK.
   In ordinance violation cases, subject to the schedule prescribed under I.C.
33-36-3 by the Town Council, the Violations Clerk may accept the following:
   (A)   Written appearances;
   (B)   Waivers of trial;
   (C)   Admissions of violations; and
   (D)   Payment of civil penalties up to a specific dollar amount set forth in
an ordinance adopted by the Town Council, but not more than $250.
(I.C. 33-36-2-3)
§ 34.04 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Upon the appointment or designation of the Violations Clerk as
provided by §
34.01, the Town Council shall designate, by ordinance or code, a schedule of
ordinance and code provisions that are subject to admission of violation before
the Violations Clerk and the amount of civil penalty to be assessed to a
violator who elects to admit a violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Civil penalties shall be paid to, receipted by and accounted for by
the Clerk under procedures provided for by the State Board of Accounts. Payment
of civil penalties under this chapter may be made in person, by mail or to an
agent or agents designated by the Town Council.
(I.C. 33-36-3-1)
§ 34.05 RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   A person charged with an ordinance or a code violation is entitled to a
trial before a court as provided by law, unless the person waives the right to
trial and enters an admission of the violation with the Violations Clerk. Upon
an admission, the Clerk shall assess and receive from the violator the amount
prescribed by the schedule of civil penalties established under §
34.04.
(I.C. 33-36-3-2)
§ 34.06 DENIAL; EXERCISE OF THE RIGHT TO TRIAL.
   If a person charged with a violation wants to exercise the right to trial,
the person shall appear before the Violations Clerk and deny the violation or
enter a written denial with the Clerk.
(I.C. 33-36-3-3)
§ 34.07 FAILURE TO APPEAR OR TO SATISFY ASSESSED CIVIL PENALTY; REPORT;
PROSECUTION.
   (A)   If a person does any of the following, then the Violations Clerk shall
report this fact to the official having the responsibility to prosecute
ordinance violation cases for the town:
      (1)   Denies an ordinance or code violation under this chapter;
      (2)   Fails to satisfy a civil penalty assessed by the Violations Clerk
after having entered an admission of violation; or
      (3)   Fails to deny or admit the violation under this chapter.
   (B)   Proceedings in court against the person shall then be initiated for
the alleged ordinance violation.
(I.C. 33-36-3-5)
§ 34.08 COURT COSTS FEE; ADMITTED VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   An ordinance violation admitted under this chapter does not constitute
a judgment for the purposes of I.C. 33-37. An ordinance violation costs fee may
not be collected from the defendant under I.C. 33-37-4.
   (B)   An ordinance violation processed under this chapter may not be
considered for the purposes of I.C. 33-37-7-6 when determining the percentage
of ordinance violations prosecuted in certain courts.
(I.C. 33-36-3-6)
§ 34.09 DISPOSITION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND COSTS COLLECTED.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, all sums collected by the Violations
Clerk as civil penalties for ordinance violations shall be accounted for and
paid to the town as provided by law.
   (B)   If a city or town that has not established a court under I.C. 33-35-
1 or an ordinance violations bureau under I.C. 33-36-2 has entered into an
interlocal agreement described in I.C. 33-36-2-4 with a municipal corporation,
the sums collected by the Violations Clerk that involve the city or town that
has not established a court or an ordinance violations bureau shall be
accounted for and paid as provided in the interlocal agreement.
(I.C. 33-36-3-7)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   County multi-hazard mitigation plan
Tort Claims Against Town
   
35.15   Clerk-Treasurer to receive notice
   
35.16   Form and service of notice
Internal Control Standards and Materiality Threshold
   
35.30   Internal control policy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 COUNTY MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan as an
official plan.
   (B)   The County Emergency Management Agency will submit on behalf of the
participating municipalities the adopted Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan to the
State Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management
Agency for final review and approval.
(Res. 2011-8, passed 9-12-2011)
TORT CLAIMS AGAINST TOWN
§ 35.15 CLERK-TREASURER TO RECEIVE NOTICE.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer is hereby designated as the town official to
receive notice of a tort claim under I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
§ 35.16 FORM AND SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice of a tort claim against the town must be in writing and
must be delivered in person or by registered or certified mail.
(I.C. 34-13-3-12)
   (B)   The notice must comply with the provisions of I.C. 34-13-3-1 et seq.
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND MATERIALITY THRESHOLD
§ 35.30 INTERNAL CONTROL POLICY.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy is to communicate the Town Council’s
internal control objectives to all employees and elected officials of the town
and to firmly commit the town to the principles of internal controls as
established by the State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   The town has a responsibility to establish and maintain an adequate
system of internal controls and to furnish to the Town Council, governmental
agencies, creditors and others reliable financial information on a timely
basis. As the fiscal body, the Town Council expects the town administration and
the town’s employees to effect an internal control environment with policies
and procedures necessary to provide reasonable assurance that practices cause
effective and efficient operations, reliable financial reporting, and
compliance with applicable laws and regulations and to minimize the risk of
loss.
   (C)   As the town’s chief financial officer, the Town Clerk-Treasurer will
be the town’s chief agent in implementing and managing the internal control
policies and procedure. As the individual with delegated approval authority,
the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining and supporting
the system of internal controls. The Town Council directs the Clerk-Treasurer
to monitor the necessary compliance with the policy on materiality and process
for reporting material items and report noteworthy items to the Town Council.
   (D)   The materiality threshold for the town shall be $100. If the erroneous
or irregular variance, loss, shortage or theft is not cash or a cash-
equivalent, the value of the item at the time of the variance, loss, shortage
or theft shall be used to determine whether the materiality threshold has been
met.
   (E)   Knowledge of misappropriation and maintenance of documentation: all
erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts of $100 or more
shall be reported immediately to the State Board of Accounts. In addition, all
erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts which occur more
that three times in a month and which in the aggregate total $300 or more shall
be reported immediately to the State Board of Accounts.
   (F)   A town employee or public officer who has knowledge of or reasonable
cause to believe that there has been a misappropriation of public funds or
assets of the public office shall immediately send written notice of the
misappropriation to the State Board of Accounts and County Prosecuting
Attorney.
   (G)   The town shall maintain records and documents concerning erroneous or
irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and the internal control standards provided by
the State Board of Accounts.
   (H)   The Town Council shall maintain records and documents concerning
erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and the internal control
standards provided by the State Board of Accounts.
   (I)   The town hereby adopts the internal control standards developed by the
State Board of Accounts as published in the Uniform Internal Control Standards
for Indiana Political Subdivisions and as may be amended from time to time.
Whenever the State Board of Accounts uniform internal control standards imposes
a greater restriction or higher standard than is required by a provision of
this section, the more restrictive provisions apply.
(Ord. 2016-4, passed 12-20-2016)
CHAPTER 36: TOWN EMPLOYEES
Section
   
36.01   Employee leave and vacation policy
§ 36.01 EMPLOYEE LEAVE AND VACATION POLICY.
   (A)   Paid vacation.
      (1)   A new full-time employee will not be eligible for paid vacation
during the first year of employment. After one year of employment they will
have earned five days of paid vacation, which must be taken during the second
year. During the second year the full-time employee will earn ten days of
vacation time, which will be taken during the third year of employment. The
maximum days per year will be ten days.
      (2)   No full-time employee shall take pay instead of time off. Upon
termination of employment, vacation time earned will be included in the
employee’s final check. Vacation time will be prorated for the present year
upon termination of employment.
      (3)   All vacation time must be taken during the time for which it is
earned. Accumulation of vacation is not permissible. Vacation schedules must be
approved by the Town Council. The periods of earnings and vacation time will
start and end at the date of employment for each full-time employee.
   (B)   Paid sick leave.
      (1)   Paid sick leave is a protection for the employee against loss of
pay due to severe and prolonged illness. A new full-time employee does not
receive paid sick leave during the first year of employment. Upon completion of
12 months of continuous employment he or she will have accumulated ten days of
eligible paid sick leave.
      (2)   Paid sick leave can accumulate up to 20 days. Paid sick leave
cannot be taken at the expense of losing it.
      (3)   Sick leave will be paid only when the employee presents a signed,
valid, written doctor’s statement of illness for each sick day claimed.
      (4)   The Town Council must be notified on the first day of sickness by
an employee.
      (5)   Upon termination of employment, an employee will not be reimbursed
for unused sick leave.
   (C)   Paid bereavement leave. All full-time employees will be entitled to
four paid days for the funeral of a member of their immediate family. IMMEDIATE
FAMILY is to be defined as spouse, children, mother or father.
   (D)   Comp-time leaves.
      (1)   Comp-time off (at a rate of one and one-half) is to be owed in lieu
of cash overtime compensation. Comp-time leave must be requested by the
employee and the Town Council will grant comp-time leave within a reasonable
period of requesting time off.
      (2)   The number of hours that may be accumulated in an employee’s “comp-
time bank” is not to exceed 240 hours.
      (3)   Employees have the right to receive cash compensation for unused
comp-time when employment is terminated.
      (4)   An employee will be allowed to use comp-time to cover time lost due
to casual sickness, with the approval of the Town Council.
   (E)   Paid holidays.
      (1)   The following days will be considered paid holidays: New Years Day;
Presidents’ Day; Memorial Day; July Fourth; Labor Day; Veterans’ Day;
Thanksgiving Day; Christmas Day; and Columbus Day.
      (2)   An employee can elect to substitute his or her birthday for
Presidents’ Day or Veterans Day.
   (F)   Unpaid leave of absence. The Town Council can grant an unpaid leave of
absence of up to six weeks to a full-time employee when unusual and
extraordinary circumstances require a full-time employee to not be at work for
a specific period of time.
(Ord. 2003-93, passed - -)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Disconnection for late payment
Schedule of Rates and Charges
   
50.15   Water treatment system rates and charges
   
50.16   Sanitary waste treatment system rates and charges
   
50.17   Water and sewer utility deposits
   
50.18   Non-payment of utility bills
   
50.19   Customer services
   
50.20   Maintenance of service line
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect.
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill.
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, and is 30 days or more delinquent,
service will be discontinued for nonpayment.
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 8-1.5-3-4(d)
SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.15 WATER TREATMENT SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES.
   There shall be and there are hereby established for the use of and the
service rendered by the water treatment system of the town, the following rates
and charges, based upon the use of water supplied and services rendered by said
system during each monthly billing period.
   (A)   Metered rates per month.
Metered Rates per Month For: Rate per Category (And Part Thereof)
Metered Rates per Month For: Rate per Category (And Part Thereof)
First 2,500 gallons          $37.47
Next 7,500 gallons           $5.04 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons          $4.87 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons          $4.67 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons          $4.50 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons          $4.30 per 1,000 gallons
Next 50,000 gallons          $3.38 per 1,000 gallons
All over 100,000 gallons     $2.43 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Minimum charge per month. Each user shall pay a minimum charge of
$37.47.
   (C)   Bulk water purchases. All water purchased in bulk for filling swimming
pools and the like shall be treated as a separate sale based on the above
rates.
   (D)   Estimated water usage. Inclement weather or other variables may
necessitate the estimation of water used during a billing period. Whenever this
occurs, the utility bill will be adjusted the next time the water meter is read
so as to reflect actual metered usage.
   (E)   Multiple dwellings on one meter.
      (1)   If a customer has more than one dwelling situated on a single piece
of property, and said property belongs to the customer, then if said customer
so desires he or she may have all water used metered through a single meter,
and the bill for the total amount of water will be determined by the rate for
this total. There will be added to the bill an extra charge for each extra
occupied dwelling. A DWELLING, for the purpose of this charge, will be defined
as each structure or unit of a structure that is so designed as to be used as a
separate living quarter, or a business with three or more employees. Any
dwelling so occupied for any part of the billing period will be included in
this charge. It will be the sole responsibility of the customer to prove that
any dwelling was unoccupied during the entire billing period. If this is so
proved, then an adjustment to the bill can be made. The charge for each extra
dwelling will be added to each month’s utility bill. The charge for the extra
dwellings will be $9 if the dwelling has both water and sewer service. The
charge will be $4.50 per extra dwelling if only water service is being
provided.
      (2)   This charge will go into effect for all existing multi-dwelling
users upon passage of this section.
   (F)   Fire protection service. There shall be a charge of $100 per hydrant
per annum for both public and private hydrants in the town. This fee will be
collected from the revenues of property taxes from the town’s General Fund.
   (G)   Late payment charge. All bills for water service not paid by the
eighteenth of the month, following the month of service, will have a 10% late
fee added to the utility bill. If the bill for water service is not paid by the
eighteenth of the following month, then water service will be disconnected on
the following day (nineteenth), unless that is a Saturday or Sunday and the
water service will be disconnected that following Monday morning by 8:00 a.m.
and the customer will be required to pay an additional $65 service charge over
and above all fees, penalties and interest before water service will be
reconnected.
   (H)   Tapping fees. Each user at the time such user is to be connected to
the water treatment system of the town shall pay to the town a flat service
charge to cover the costs of installing a meter and/or tapping the main. This
charge will be as follows:
 
Meter Size                 Charge
5/8-inch or 3/4-inch meter $300
2-inch meter               $400
 
   (I)   Cross-connection controls. Any customer that is connected to the town
water system, and also is connected to another source of water, must have
installed a protective device to ensure that the water system is protected from
any backflow or back siphonage.
Chapter 51, §§
51.30 through
51.37 of this code of ordinances, specifies the policies and responsibilities
for cross-connection controls.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-3-1998; Ord. 2013-05, passed 3-29-2013; Ord. 2019-02,
passed 3-11-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Cross-connections, see §§
51.30 through
51.37
§ 50.16 SANITARY WASTE TREATMENT SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES.
   There shall be and there are hereby established for the use of and services
rendered by the sanitary waste treatment system of the town the following rates
and charges based upon the amount of metered water consumed and/or the number
of occupants of the dwelling or a combination of both for each monthly billing
period.
   (A)   Metered water usage. The water usage schedule, on which the amount of
the sewage rates and charges shall be determined, shall be as follows:
 
Consumption per Month Rate
First 1,500 gallons   $25.34
Next 48,500 gallons   $9.20 per 1,000 gallons
Over 50,000 gallons   $10.71 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Minimum charge per month. The minimum charge per month for any user
shall be $25.34.
   (C)   Non-metered rates per month.
      (1)   Each user of the sanitary waste treatment system who is not
connected with the water treatment system of the town, or who is both connected
to the water treatment system and also to another outside water supply shall be
charged for sanitation waste treatment services rendered to said household in
accordance with the number of individuals in the household as  follows;
 
Number in Household Rate
1                   $37.83
2                   $49.55
3                   $58.63
4                   $73.76
5                   $82.84
 
      (2)   For each additional occupant over five there will be $9.08 added to
the flat rate.
   (D)   Late payment charge. All bills for sanitary waste treatment services
not paid by the eighteenth of the month, following the month of service, will
have a 10% late fee added to the utility bill. If the bill is not paid by the
eighteenth of the following month, then water service will be disconnected on
the following day (nineteenth) unless that is a Saturday or Sunday and the
water service will be disconnected that following Monday morning by 8:00 a.m.
and the customer will be required to pay an additional $65 service charge over
and above all fees, penalties and interest before water service will be
reconnected.
   (E)   Tapping fees. Any new user at the time such user desires to be
connected to the sanitary waste treatment system of the town shall pay to the
town a flat service charge to cover the cost of tapping into said sanitation
system, said new tap in fee being in the amount of $300.
   (F)   Hook-up permit fee. 
      (1)   Any new user that requires a new tap in to the sanitary waste
treatment system of the town shall pay to the town a flat service charge of $25
to cover administrative costs.
      (2)   Any person requesting water and/or wastewater services who has an
unpaid balance with the town for water and/or wastewater service will only have
new service connected upon receipt of total unpaid bill and applicable deposit.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-3-1998; Ord. 2003-4, passed 12-4-2004; Ord. 2010-4, passed
3-8-2010; Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 50.17 WATER AND SEWER UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The Utility Board hereby sets the water and sewage deposit for both
residential and commercial users at $200 per water and/or sewer hookup; this
deposit being payable prior to turning on of the water and/or usage of the
sewer system.
   (B)   The utility deposit shall be on a good pay, returnable deposit. When a
customer has paid 12 consecutive months without a late charge against his or
her account, the $200 deposit shall be returned. However, should a customer
have a late charge during the 12-month period, he or she automatically starts a
new period. When a customer discontinues use of the water and sewer utilities,
any outstanding bill will be deducted from any deposit the customer may have.
   (C)   If a utility customer directly moves from one location to another
location but remains within the utility system of the town, then the customer
will not be required to pay another utility deposit. (This only applies if the
water bill is in current status with no arrearage. If arrearage exists, all
water and wastewater bills will have to be brought current before utilities
will be hooked up by the town in a new location and a utility deposit will be
required). However, if there is a time lapse of one week or more between the
moves, then the customer will be treated as a new customer and a new deposit
will be required.
   (D)   If a utility customer in good standing asks to have his or her utility
service discontinued for a temporary period of time (for example an extended
vacation), they will not need to repay the $200 deposit when he or she returns
to his or her original dwelling. If this time period is longer than six months,
a new deposit will be required.
   (E)   All new sewer utility customers must inform the Utilities Clerk as to
whether they own or rent the property in which sewer services are being
rendered by providing proof of ownership of the property with their names on
it, or by having the owner of the property appear before the Town Clerk-
Treasurer and sign a statement acknowledging their understanding of the
liability under I.C. 36-9-23-32.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-3-1998; Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 50.18 NON-PAYMENT OF UTILITY BILLS.
   (A)   State mandate. I.C. 36-9-23-33 mandates that the officer in charge
with collection of fees and penalties for sewer services shall enforce its
payment. The Town Council serving in its authority as Utility Board will take
all necessary measures including liens on real property and civil actions to
ensure the collection of delinquent utility bills.
   (B)   Bills. Utility bills are issued on or about the first day of the month
for services rendered the prior billing period of approximately 30 days. If the
utility bill is not paid by the eighteenth of the month, a 10% late charge will
be added. If the utility bill is not paid by the eighteenth of the following
month, the utility will be disconnected by the following day (nineteenth)
unless that is a Saturday or Sunday and the utility will be disconnected that
following Monday morning by 8:00 a.m. and if no acceptable arrangements for
payment have been made by the customer, then the water meter will be shut off
and/or pulled. Even though water service to the dwelling has been shut-off a
fee for sewer services will continue as long as the dwelling is occupied. This
fee will be based on the number of occupants and/or previous usage history.
   (C)   Disconnection. If non-payment of a utility bill results in a
disconnection of the utility then the customer will be required to pay a $65
service charge over and above all fees, penalties and interest to reconnect to
the utility.
   (D)   Liability of landlords for delinquent sewer bills. I.C. 36-9-23-3.2
states that delinquent sewer charges are fees assessed against real property
and constitute a lien against the property assessed. I.C. 36-9-25-11.2 states
that if a fee for sanitary sewer services is not paid within 30 days after it
is due, a copy of any notice of delinquency sent to a delinquent user who is a
tenant must be sent to the owner of the property also. Any delinquent sewer
bill not paid by a tenant will be assessed against the landowners’ property
tax, by the procedure as set forth by state law.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-3-1998; Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 50.19 CUSTOMER SERVICES.
   (A)   Shut-off. The town will provide a utility customer with one free shut-
off and on of the water meter during a 24-hour period. Customers are advised to
have shut-off valves installed in their system to allow them to do normal
repairs without having to have the water meter shut-off for these repairs. All
water meters are the property of the utility and any customer who damages a
meter will be responsible for all costs of repairs.
   (B)   Deferred payment plan.
      (1)   A water and sewage utility customer in good standing, having been a
customer of the utility for six continuous months, may in a time of financial
distress request and receive a partial deferment of a utility bill. Prior to
the disconnection date of a utility the customer must pay at least 25% of their
total utility bill, including any and all penalties. On or before the
disconnection date of the next three monthly billing periods, the utility
customer must pay his or her current monthly bill and penalties and at least
25% of the original total of his or her deferred delinquent utility bill and
penalties. If a utility customer cannot meet the deferred payment schedule,
then his or her water service will be immediately disconnected, and all
outstanding payments and penalties must be paid in full before the customer
will be allowed to reconnect.
      (2)   If the utility customer that requests a deferment of payment of a
utility bill that includes charges for sewer service, and if said customer does
not own the real property for which the delinquent sewer bill is to be
deferred, then the owner of the real property must agree to the deferment of
the sewer charges before it will be allowed.
      (3)   A second deferment will not be allowed while the utility customer
is in the process of paying a previous deferment.
   (C)   Adjustments to utility bill.
      (1)   If a utility customer has a water leak in which said leak does not
cause water to drain into the sanitary sewer system, then the utility customer
can request an adjustment to the charges on his or her sanitary sewer bill that
reflect the amount of the metered water that did not flow into the sanitary
sewer. The amount of the adjustment will be estimated by comparing the amount
of water used during the billing period in which there was a leak, to the
average amount of water used during a billing period.
      (2)   Before an adjustment will be allowed, the leak or repair of the
leak must be inspected by an employee of the utilities, to determine if the
water from the leak did not enter into the sanitary sewer system. Adjustments
to the sanitary sewer bill will not be allowed for normal use of water from an
outside hydrant.
      (3)   This adjustment must be approved by the Town Council at a regular
meeting of the Council.
   (E)   Sump pumps. Sump pumps that pump rain and/or ground seepage water into
the sanitary sewer system, and guttering or other drains that allow rain and/or
surface water to flow into the sanitary sewer system are strictly forbidden.
Fines and other penalties for this illegal action are detailed in
Chapter 51, §§
51.01 through
51.18 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-3-1998; Ord. 2019-02, passed 3-11-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.20 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINE.
   (A)   After a service line has been connected into the conduit water main
and connections have been approved by the Water Superintendent, it shall become
the ownership/responsibility of the waterworks to service, maintain and make
necessary repairs to the service line from its connection with the conduit
water main up to the final fitting outside of the meter pit (property line/
customer side of meter pit). However, any damages caused to the meter pit,
meter lids, meter, meter setter, meter radio reader, other than damage caused
by the town or its agents or employees or by normal wear and tear, shall be
chargeable to the customer/home or business owner and the cost and expense of
repairing the damage shall be paid by the customer/home or business owner.
   (B)   The service line from the final fitting outside meter pit (property
line/customer side) to the home/business end point; it shall be the
responsibility of the home/business owner to service, maintain and make
necessary repairs to the service line from the final fitting to its point of
use. Any damage to the portion of the service line running from the final
fitting to its point of use shall be immediately repaired by the home/business
owner. All repairs shall be inspected and approved by the Superintendent.
   (C)   If customer believes their meter is defective and wants it tested to
see, the town will send it in to a certified water meter tester. If meter comes
back with no defects, the customer will be responsible for the cost of testing.
If the meter is defective, the town will cover the cost and give credit to the
customer.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 10-10-2016)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
Sewers Generally
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Prohibitions
   
51.03   Private sewage disposal
   
51.04   Permit required
   
51.05   Discharges
   
51.06   Pretreatment of industrial wastes required
   
51.07   Plans for pretreatment must be submitted
   
51.08   Unpolluted water
   
51.09   Industrial cooling water
   
51.10   Requirement to supply pertinent information
   
51.11   Observation, sampling and measurement of industrial or other
nonresidential wastewater
   
51.12   Strength of wastewaters
   
51.13   Measurements, tests and analysis
   
51.14   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps
   
51.15   Unusual flows or wastes; notification
   
51.16   Compliance with applicable state and/or federal requirements
   
51.17   Damaging municipal sewage works
   
51.18   Inspection permitted
Cross-Connections
   
51.30   Definition
   
51.31   Policy on cross-connection control
   
51.32   Responsibility for cross-connection control
   
51.33   Prohibited
   
51.34   Inspections
   
51.35   Discontinuance of water service
   
51.36   Emergency discontinuance
   
51.37   Customers with both pumps and public water supply
 
   
51.99   Penalty
SEWERS GENERALLY
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/l,
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which received the discharge from soils, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys stormwater or
other clearwater drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.)
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary
or industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys stormwater or
other clearwater discharge, but not sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.
      (1)   Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform
bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the
treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in fact does remove
such pollutants to a substantial degree.
      (2)   The term SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE is not subject to precise definition,
but generally contemplates removals in the order of 80% or greater.
      (3)   Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not
considered substantial.
      (4)   Examples of the additional pollutants which may be considered
compatible includes:
         (a)   Chemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Total organic carbon;
         (c)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
         (d)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
         (e)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organism common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include, and is distinguished from, inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water, discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from
storm sewers, and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface run-off,
street wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished
from, infiltration.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act, P.L. 92-500, being 33
U.S.C. § 1317(a); or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a wastewater, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in the sewage rate
ordinance, as codified in
Chapter 50, §§
50.15 through
50.20 of this code of ordinances.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the national pollutant discharge
elimination system for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to § 402 of the Clean Water Act, P.L. 92-500, being 33
U.S.C. § 1342.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments.
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions (including
polluted cooling water). The two most common types of sewage are as follows.
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid- and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water).
      (2)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid- and water-carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes required to collect,
transport, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent
and accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hours concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the
town, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act, P.L.
92-500, being 33 U.S.C. § 1342.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standard and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewers
and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 550°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
§ 51.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, stormwater, surface water, ground water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted
industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of unpolluted
waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility if such removal is
cost-effective and is in the best interest of all users of those facilities.
   (C)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connections shall be made unless there is
capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the
sewage treatment plant without capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town, any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this subchapter and the
NPDES permit.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (G)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town, is hereby required at his or
her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to
do so; provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.02(G), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. The application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $10 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours
of the receipt of notice of the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
18,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this
subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health
Officer.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the said town. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the inspector.
      (3)   A permit and inspection fee of $50 for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and $75 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found on examination and test by the said inspector to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   (1)   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM A-74,
latest revision; vitrified clay sewer pipe ASTM C-13, latest revision;
asbestos-cement sewer pipe ASTM C-428, latest revision; or approved equal.
Plastic pipe shall have the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) label on the
pipe barrel and the pipe shall comply with ASTM D-3034 and ASTM D-1784.
      (2)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent. In general, the building sewer shall be the
same size as the service branch but in no event less than four inches in
diameter. The slope of the four-inch building sewer shall not be less than 1.2%
and the six-inch sewer not less than 0.6% slope.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewers, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer by the person that owns said building.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9. All
such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Superintendent
before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sower permit shall notify the said
inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the said
inspector or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the said Superintendent. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the said
Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works; and
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewer, or other interferences with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The
substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 and 150°F (0 and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 HP metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirements to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chlorine and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined in §
51.01.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public waters, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which in the
judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase
in discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain
prior approval for discharges;
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
         (c)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage as defined;
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works; or
         (e)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (G)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (H)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made on this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analysis
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspends solids analyses are obtained from
the 24-hour composite of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.) All tests shall be in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   (I)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste or unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with the rate ordinance.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES REQUIRED.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations, adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) and published in the Federal Register on November 8, 1973 (38 F.R.
30982) Federal Guidelines dated October, 1973, in addition to any more
stringent requirements established by the town, and any subsequent federal
guidelines and rules and regulations.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
§ 51.07 PLANS FOR PRETREATMENT MUST BE SUBMITTED.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval, in
writing, is granted. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the
owner at his or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the
town to determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
applicable federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain
operating records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary report of the
character of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment
facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
§ 51.08 UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools, shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the state.
Where a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural sewer is not available, such
unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval
by the town.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
§ 51.09 INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluable oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
51.08.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
§ 51.10 REQUIREMENT TO SUPPLY PERTINENT INFORMATION.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows characteristics.
Such measurements, tests and analysis shall be made at the user’s expense. If
made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the
option of the town.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
§ 51.11 OBSERVATION, SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT OF INDUSTRIAL OR OTHER
NONRESIDENTIAL WASTEWATER.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes or other nonresidential wastewater may be required by the
town to install a suitable structure together with such necessary meters and
other appurtenances in the building to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such structures, when required, shall be accessible
and safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the town. The structures shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
   (B)   Agents of the town, the state water pollution control agencies and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties
for purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
§ 51.12 STRENGTH OF WASTEWATERS.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined for periodic establishment
of charges provided for in the rate ordinance, as codified in
Chapter 51, §§
50.15 through
50.20 of this code of ordinances, from samples taken at the aforementioned
structure at any period of time and of such duration and in such manner as the
town may elect, or, at any place mutually agreed upon between the user and the
town. Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be assessed to the user
at the option of the town. The results of routine sampling and analysis by the
user may also be used for determination of charges after verification by the
town.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
§ 51.13 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSIS.
   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with latest edition of Standard Methods, except for applications for
NPDES permits and reports thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with
rules and regulations adopted by the USEPA, published in the Federal Register,
October 16, 1973 (38 F.R. part 30982), and any subsequent revisions subject to
approval by the town.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
§ 51.14 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS OR TRAPS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of substantial construction, be
gas-tight, water-tight, and equipped with easily removable covers. Where
installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained
by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
§ 51.15 UNUSUAL FLOWS OR WASTES; NOTIFICATION.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidently or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
§ 51.16 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE STATE AND/OR FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this subchapter and limits set herein shall comply with
any applicable state and/or federal requirements now or projected to be in
effect.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
§ 51.17 DAMAGING MUNICIPAL SEWAGE WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating
this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 INSPECTION PERMITTED.
   (A)   The Superintendent, inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing of the kind
and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
51.05(G).
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.30 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the town
water system, and the other water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety, or stream, gases or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to another, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 51.31 POLICY ON CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   The extent of cross-connection control protection must be commensurate
with the degree of hazard present. The best known protection is the air gap
separation when properly maintained or the reduced pressure principle backflow
device since both offer a high degree of reliability.
   (B)   All approved reduced pressure backflow valves and double check valves
must meet the specifications as set for the University of Southern California
Manual of Cross-Connection Control (latest edition), and shall have been fully
tested in the laboratory and in the field. Several recognized testing
laboratories are available to perform this testing and can provide the
necessary certification of testing reliability of the device. A list of
approved devices has been established and can be furnished upon request.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 51.32 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL.
   The water supplier responsibility begins at the source of supply and
includes adequate treatment facilities, public water distribution system and
service piping, and ends at the point of delivery to the consumer’s water
system. In addition, the water purveyor should exercise reasonable vigilance to
ensure that the consumer has taken the proper steps to protect the public water
system. To ensure that the proper precautions are taken, the purveyor shall
determine the degree of hazard to the public water system following guidelines
developed by the Environmental Management Board. When it is determined that a
backflow prevention device is required for the protection of the public water
system, the consumer should be required to install an approved reduced pressure
backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly at each
service connection at his or her expense, to properly repair and maintain such
device or devices, and to keep adequate records of each test and subsequent
maintenance and repair. The water purveyor is directly responsible for the
purity and quality of public water supply.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 51.33 PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained any cross-connection. No interconnection
shall be established whereby potable water from a private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the town
may enter the supply or distribution system of said municipality, unless such
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the Water Utility and by the
Environmental Management Board.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-1-1986) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.34 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of Water Superintendent to cause inspections to
be made of all properties served by the public water system where cross-
connections with the public water system is deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and reinspection based on potential health hazards involved shall
be as established by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town water
system shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to examine
any property served by a cross-connection to the public water system of the
town for cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessee or occupant of any
property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or system on such property. The refusal
of requested pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of
cross-connections.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 51.35 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   The Town Water Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of the subchapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the pubic water system.
Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is served to
the owner, lessee, or occupants of the property or premises where a violation
is found or suspected to exist. Water services to such property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter. (Refer to §
51.37.)
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 51.36 EMERGENCY DISCONTINUANCE.
   If it is deemed by the Town Water Superintendent that a cross-connection or
an emergency endangers public health, safety or welfare and requires immediate
action, and a written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town and delivered to the consumers’ premises, service may be
immediately discontinued. The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing
within ten days of such emergency discontinuance.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 51.37 CUSTOMERS WITH BOTH PUMPS AND PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY.
   After the adoption of this section and customers of the town water system
who have both private (pumps) and public water supply have been duly notified
of its contents and stipulations, they shall have 30 days to install the
corrective device into their plumbing system after this section has been
passed. Should a customer refuse to comply to install or have installed, he or
she shall appear before the Town Council at its next meeting and explain their
failure to comply. Failing to attend the meeting shall be determined to mean
refusal to comply. The Council shall then give the customer another ten days to
comply. Should the customer refuse, then the Council shall direct the Utility
Manager to shut off the town water supply and the sewage rate shall be
adjusted.
(Ord. 86-4, passed 12-1-1986)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.01 through
51.18, except §
51.17, shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within a period of time stated in such
notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (B)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and on
conviction thereof shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $100 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.18 shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss of damage
occasioned the town by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 76-3, passed 4-14-1976)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.15   Establishment and maintenance of traffic control devices
   
70.16   Obedience to signals
   
70.17   Interference with signals
   
70.18   Unauthorized signals or markings
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. The following vehicles:
      (1)   Fire Department vehicles;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles;
      (3)   Ambulances;
      (4)   Emergency vehicles operated by or for hospitals or health and
hospital corporations under I.C. 16-22-8;
      (5)   Vehicles designated as emergency vehicles by the State Department
of Transportation under I.C. 9-21-20-1;
      (6)   Motor vehicles that, subject to I.C. 9-21-20-2, are approved by the
State Emergency Medical Services Commission, that are:
         (a)   Ambulances that are owned by persons, firms, limited liability
companies or corporations other than hospitals; or
         (b)   Not ambulances and that provide emergency medical services,
including extrication and rescue services (as defined in I.C. 16-18-2-110).
      (7)   Vehicles of the Department of Correction that, subject to I.C. 9-
21-20-3, are:
         (a)   Designated by the Department of Correction as emergency
vehicles; and
         (b)   Responding to an emergency.
(I.C. 9-13-2-6)
   DRIVER. A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-47)
   ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE. A self-balancing, two
nontandem- wheeled device that is designed to transport only one person and
that has the following:
      (1)   An electric propulsion system with average power of 750 watts or
one horsepower; and
      (2)   A maximum speed of less than 20 mph when operated on a paved level
surface, when powered solely by the propulsion system referred to in division
(1) above, and when operated by an operator weighing 170 pounds.
(I.C. 9-13-2-49.3)
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
publicly maintained way when any part of the way is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel in the state. The term includes an
alley.
(I.C. 9-13-2-73)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within:
         (a)   The prolongation or connection of the lateral curb lines, or if
none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of two highways that join
at or approximately at right angles; or
         (b)   The area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every
crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting highway is
regarded as a separate intersection. If the intersecting highway also includes
two roadways at least 30 feet apart, every crossing of two roadways of the
intersecting highway is regarded as a separate intersection.
(I.C. 9-13-2-84)
   MOTORCYCLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle with motive power that:
         (a)   Has a seat or saddle for the use of the rider;
         (b)   Is designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact
with the ground; and
         (c)   Satisfies the operational and equipment specifications described
in 49 C.F.R. part 571 and I.C. 9-19.
      (2)    The term includes an autocycle, but does not include a farm
tractor, an electric bicycle, or a motor driven cycle.
(I.C. 9-13-2-108)
   MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)    Except as otherwise provided in this definition, a vehicle that is
self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, an implement of
agriculture designed to be operated primarily in a farm field or on farm
premises, an electric bicycle, an electric foot scooter, or an electric
personal assistive mobility device as those terms are defined in I.C. 9-13-2-
56, 9-13-2-77, and this section.
      (2)   MOTOR VEHICLE also means:
         (a)   A vehicle that is self-propelled; or
         (b)   A vehicle that is propelled by electric power obtained from
overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails.
(I.C. 9-13-2-105(a) and (b))
   OPERATOR. 
      (1)   An individual who operates a vehicle, watercraft, off-road vehicle
or snowmobile.
      (2)   OPERATOR, for the purpose of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set
forth in 33 CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-118)
   OWNER. 
      (1)   A person, other than a lienholder that:
         (a)   Holds the property in or title to, as applicable, a vehicle,
manufactured home, mobile home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft; or
         (b)   Is entitled to the use or possession of, as applicable, a
vehicle, manufactured home, off-road vehicle, snowmobile or watercraft, through
a lease or other agreement intended to operate as a security.
      (2)   OWNER, for purposes of I.C. 9-18.1-14.5, has the meaning set forth
in 33 CFR 174.3.
(I.C. 9-13-2-121(a))
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-155)
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below, that part of a highway
improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (2)   As used in I.C. 9-21-12-13, the part of a highway that is improved,
designed, or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. The term does not include
the sidewalk, berm or shoulder, even if the sidewalk, berm or shoulder is used
by persons riding bicycles or other human powered vehicles.
(I.C. 9-13-2-157)
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. A highway or portion of a highway at the entrance to which
vehicular traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right-
of-way to vehicles on the through highway, in obedience to either a stop sign
or a yield sign.
(I.C. 9-13-2-178)
   VEHICLE. A device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway.
(I.C. 9-13-2-196(a))
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town may establish and maintain official traffic control devices
necessary within the town. All traffic control devices, including signs, shall
be employed to indicate one particular warning or regulation, shall be uniform,
and as far as possible shall be placed uniformly. All traffic control devices
and signs shall conform to required state specifications.
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
signal of any official traffic control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code or of a traffic barrier or sign erected by any
of the public departments or public utilities of the town, or any electric
signal, gate or watchman at railroad crossings, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer. However, the type and the right to or necessity for the barrier
or sign must be approved by the town.
   (B)   The sign, signal, marking or barrier shall have the same authority as
the personal direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without authority to attempt to or in
fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official control device or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or
any part thereof.
Penalty see §
70.99
§ 70.18 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain, or display on
or in view of any street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be, is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic device,
railroad sign or signal which attempts or purports to direct the movement of
traffic, or which conceals or hides from view or interferes with the
effectiveness of any official control device or any railroad sign or signal. No
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit on any
street, any traffic sign or signal containing any commercial advertising.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as restricting any public department
or public utility of the town in any emergency or temporarily from marking or
erecting any traffic barrier or sign whose placing has been approved by the
town.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a
public nuisance and the town is empowered forthwith to remove it or cause it to
be removed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this title for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $2,500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.02   Stop intersections
   
71.03   One-way streets
   
71.04   Speed limits
   
71.05   Obstruction of sidewalk
Cruising
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   Cruising prohibited
   
71.22   Posting of signs
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unlicensed or abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 90
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local traffic regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
   Authority to lower local speed limits, see I.C. 9-21-5-6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   No trucks, other than pickup trucks and passenger trucks and vans,
shall be allowed to operate on any posted town streets unless they must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pickup or delivery.
   (B)   Posted streets are those which have signs on them indicating that
their use by through trucks is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The town may designate intersections as stop intersections and require
all vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to the intersections.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at designated intersections, giving notice
of the designation as a stop intersection.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The town may designate streets or highways as one-way streets or
highways, and may require that all vehicles operated on the street or highway
be moved in one specific direction.
   (B)   The town shall post signs at the entrance to the street or part of the
street that is affected, giving notice of the designation as a one-way street.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey the markings or
signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drive any automobile,
truck or vehicle, at a speed greater than 30 mph in the corporate limits of the
town.
(Ord. passed 10-3-1955) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to park any automobile,
truck, bus or vehicle, or obstruct otherwise, any sidewalk in the corporate
limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 10-3-1955) Penalty, see §
71.99
CRUISING
§ 71.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONGESTED TRAFFIC.
      (1)   Traffic on any public street, alley or highway which is delaying to
the point that:
         (a)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light within two complete green-
light cycles, where the delay in forward movement is due to the position of
other motor vehicles;
         (b)   Motor vehicles cannot move through a 100-yard approach corridor
to an intersection controlled by a traffic light, stop sign or yield sign
within a five-minute period of time, where the delay in forward movement is due
to the position of other motor vehicles; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles cannot readily move forward on portions of public
streets, alleys or highways between intersections because traffic speed is
slowed to less than five mph, and the delay in movement is due to the position
of other motor vehicles.
      (2)   The determination that a street, alley or highway is congested
shall be made by the Town Marshal or ranking peace officer on duty within the
affected area.
   CRUISING. The repetitive driving of any motor vehicle past a traffic control
point in traffic which is congested at or near the traffic control point.
   GREEN LIGHT CYCLE. The period commencing upon the switching of a traffic
light from a red light to a green light through to the return of a red light.
   PEACE OFFICER. The Town Marshal, his or her designee, any member of the Town
Police Department, or other town, county or state official designated to
enforce this subchapter.
   PROPERTY IN THE PROXIMITY OF ANY POSTED NO-CRUISING ZONE. Any property which
is both visible from and located within 300 feet of any portion of a street,
alley or highway which is posted as a no-cruising zone pursuant to this
subchapter.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT. A location along a public street, alley or highway
utilized by the Town Marshal or a peace officer on duty within the affected
area as an observation point in order to monitor traffic conditions for
potential violations of this title.
§ 71.21 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Conduct prohibited. It shall be unlawful to engage in the activity
known as cruising as defined in this subchapter on the public streets, alleys
or highways of the town in any area which has been posted as a no-cruising
zone.
   (B)   First violation. Any person who violates division (A) above may be
given a written warning stating that any subsequent passage past that traffic
control point within the next succeeding four hours will be a violation of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Subsequent violations. Any person who, after having received a written
warning under division (B) above, subsequently drives past or is a passenger in
a vehicle passing the same traffic control point within the next succeeding
four hours shall be in violation of this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   This subchapter may be enforced in any area which has been posted as a no-
cruising zone. “No Cruising” signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end
of any public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof, which is a no-
cruising zone.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
71.04 is to be punishable according to state laws governing speed.
   (C)   Violation of §
71.05 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $1, or more than $5, for
first offense.
(Ord. passed 10-3-1955; Ord. passed 10-3-1955)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking where posted
   
72.02   Limited parking
   
72.03   Other parking restrictions
   
72.04   Parking for persons with physical disability
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unlicensed or abandoned vehicles, see
Ch
apter 90
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact local parking regulations, see I.C. 9-21-1-3
§ 72.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit those acts.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
town where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Town Council may order the placing of signs, devices or marks, or the
painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion, the stopping,
standing or parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free
movement of traffic thereon. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be
official signs, devices, marks or painting; and no person shall stop, stand or
park any vehicle in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated
thereby.
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITY.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
      PERSON WITH A PHYSICAL DISABILITY. Any person who has been issued a
placard or special registration plate or decal for a motor vehicle by the State
Bureau of Motor Vehicles under I.C. 9-14-5, 9-18-18, 9-18-22 or the laws of
another state.
   (B)   Parking prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, moped, bicycle or other vehicle of any nature, which does not have
displayed a placard for a person with a physical disability issued under the
laws of this state or the laws of another state, in a parking space reserved
for a vehicle of a person with a physical disability.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly park in a parking
space reserved for a person with a physical disability while displaying a
placard to which neither the person nor the person’s passenger is entitled.
   (C)   Violation. If any vehicle is parked unlawfully in violation of any of
the provisions of this section, and the identity of the driver cannot be
determined, the owner or person in whose name the vehicle is registered shall
be held prima facie responsible for the violation.
   (D)   Towing. In addition to any fines which may be given as a result of
violations of this section, any vehicle which is parked in a manner in
violation of this section may be towed to an area designated by the town at the
owner’s expense. The owner shall also be required to pay any and all storage
fees resulting from this action.
Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law, see I.C. 5-16-9
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 73: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Off-Road Vehicles
   
73.01   Operation of off-road vehicles
Golf Carts
   
73.15   Conditions for operation
   
73.16   Enforcement
 
   
73.99   Penalty
OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 73.01 OPERATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is lawful to operate ORVs in the town and ORVs will be allowed upon
town streets and town alleys. ORVs may not be operated on sidewalks or on
Indiana State Highways 57 or 58, except to cross said state highways.
   (B)   Persons operating ORVs on town streets and alleys must comply with all
state laws set forth in I.C. 14-16-1 as existing or hereafter amended.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.15 CONDITIONS FOR OPERATION.
   The following conditions have been established for golf carts allowed on the
streets in the town limits.
   (A)   They must have head lights.
   (B)   They must have tail lights.
   (C)   They must have turning signals and lights.
   (D)   There must be a slow moving vehicle sign or flashing red or yellow
lights.
   (E)   The driver must be a licensed driver.
   (F)   There must be a seat/utility box for every passenger.
   (G)   Owner must show proof of insurance.
   (H)   They must be equipped with a mirror, showing view to the rear.
   (J)   All “Rules of the Road” are to be followed.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 8-10-2009) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   The town shall be the elective department authorized to administer this
subchapter.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   Violations of §§
73.15 and
73.16 shall be addressed as established in Ord. 2005-3.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 8-10-2009)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   UNLICENSED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   OPEN BURNING
      
95.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: UNLICENSED OR ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Exemptions
   
90.03   Responsibility and liability of vehicle owner
Impoundment, Redemption Procedures
   
90.15   Authority to impound
   
90.16   Notice to state of impoundment required
   
90.17   Notice tag to be placed on vehicle by police officer
   
90.18   Release of vehicle to owner before final disposition
   
90.19   Disposal of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.20   Abandoned Vehicle Fund
   
90.21   Additional regulations may be enacted by town
   
90.22   Exemptions from liability
   
90.23   Abandoned vehicle on private or rental properties
   
90.24   Towing and storage charges
   
90.25   Maintenance of unlicensed motor vehicles on private property unlawful
   
90.26   Exemptions
   
90.27   Notice of violation
   
90.28   Covering vehicle or enclosing in garage insufficient
   
90.29   Citation
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. The following:
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for 24 hours;
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in a manner as to constitute a
hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on a
public right-of-way;
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours;
      (5)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential has
been removed, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and left
on public property;
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or by the town
if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the owner or the owner’s
agent within 20 days of the vehicle’s removal in order for the code section to
conform with I.C. 9-13-2-1;
      (7)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, mechanically
inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days. For purposes of this division (7),
a vehicle covered by a tarpaulin or other plastic, vinyl, rubber, cloth or
textile covering is considered to be visible; or
      (8)   A vehicle:
         (a)   That was repaired or stored at the request of the owner;
         (b)   That has not been claimed by the owner; and
         (c)   For which the reasonable value of the charges associated with
the repair or storage remain unpaid more than 30 days after the date on which
the repair work is completed or the vehicle is first stored.
   OFFICER. The following:
      (1)   Any Town Councilmember, Clerk-Treasurer, or code enforcement
officer; or
      (2)   Any regular member of the Town Police Department.
(I.C. 9-22-1-2) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-28-
2024)
§ 90.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately- owned raceways;
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment;
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility;
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard;
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under I.C. 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle;
   (F)   A golf cart; or
   (G)   An off-road vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-1) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Recreational vehicles, see
Chapter 73
   Traffic regulations, see
Chapter 71
§ 90.03 RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY OF VEHICLE OWNER.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, the owner of an abandoned
vehicle or parts is responsible for the abandonment, and liable for all of the
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle or the
parts under this chapter.
   (B)   The costs for storage of an abandoned vehicle may not exceed $1,500.
   (C)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, the person who previously owned the vehicle is not
responsible for storage fees.
   (D)   If an abandoned vehicle is sold by a person who removed, towed or
stored the vehicle, and proceeds from the sale of the vehicle covered the
removal, towing and storage expenses, any remaining proceeds from the sale of
the vehicle shall be returned to the previous owner of the vehicle if the
previous owner is known.
(I.C. 9-22-1-4) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION PROCEDURES
§ 90.15 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person other than
the owner of the vehicle and the person cannot establish the right to
possession of the vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place as determined by the officer.
(I.C. 9-22-1-5) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.16 NOTICE TO STATE OF IMPOUNDMENT REQUIRED.
   If the vehicle is considered abandoned and must be disposed of as set forth
in this chapter, then:
   (A)   The owner or lienholder under I.C. 9-22-1-8 does not appear to pay all
costs; or
   (B)   The owner of a vehicle cannot be determined by a search conducted
under I.C. 9-22-1-19;
(I.C. 9-22-1-7) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.17 NOTICE TAG TO BE PLACED ON VEHICLE BY POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   An officer who finds or is notified of a vehicle or parts believed to
be abandoned shall attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the
following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, public agency and address and
telephone number to contact for information;
      (2)   The vehicle or parts are considered abandoned;
      (3)   The vehicle or parts will be removed after:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle.
      (4)   The person who owns the vehicle will be held responsible for all
costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal, and if the costs are not
paid, the person’s registration privileges will be suspended on the vehicle;
and
      (5)   The person who owns the vehicle may avoid costs by removal of the
vehicle or parts within:
         (a)   Twenty-four hours, if the vehicle is located on or within the
right-of-way of an interstate highway or any highway that is designated as part
of the state highway system under I.C. 8-23-4; or
         (b)   Seventy-two hours for any other vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-11)
   (B)   If a vehicle or a part tagged under division (A) above is not removed
within the applicable period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned
vehicle report of the vehicle or parts, including information on condition,
missing parts and other facts that might substantiate the estimated market
value of the vehicle or parts. Photographs shall be taken describe the
condition of the vehicle or parts.
(I.C. 9-22-1-12) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.18 RELEASE OF VEHICLE TO OWNER BEFORE FINAL DISPOSITION.
   (A)   If the properly identified person who owns or holds a lien on a
vehicle appears at the site of storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts
and pays all costs incurred against the vehicle or parts at that time, the
vehicle or parts shall be released. A towing service shall notify the
appropriate public agency of all releases under this section. The notification
must include the name, signature and address of the person that owns or holds a
lien on the vehicle, a description of the vehicle or parts, costs and the date
of release.
(I.C. 9-22-1-8)
   (B)   A copy of the release of a vehicle or parts issued under division (A)
above shall be sent to the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.19 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   If in the opinion of the officer the market value of an abandoned
vehicle or parts determined in accordance with §
90.17 is less than $500, the officer shall immediately dispose of the vehicle
to a storage yard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report and photographs
relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the Town Council. A
towing service may dispose of the abandoned vehicle not less than 30 days after
the date on which the towing service removed the abandoned vehicle. A city,
county, or town that operates a storage yard under I.C. 36-9-30-3 may dispose
of an abandoned vehicle to an automobile scrapyard or an automotive salvage
recycler upon removal of the abandoned vehicle. The public agency disposing of
the vehicle shall retain the original records and photographs for at least two
years.
(I.C. 9-22-1-13(a))
   (B)   (1)   If in the opinion of the officer the market value of the
abandoned vehicle or parts determined in accordance with §
90.17 is at least $500, the officer, before placing a notice tag on the vehicle
or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the person who owns the
vehicle or parts or who may be in control of the vehicle or parts.
      (2)   After 72 hours, the officer shall require the vehicle or parts to
be towed to a storage area.
(I.C. 9-22-1-14)
   (C)   If a vehicle or parts are in a condition that vehicle identification
numbers or other means of identification are not available to determine the
person who owns or holds a lien on the vehicle, the vehicle may be disposed of
without notice.
(I.C. 9-22-1-21)
   (D)   Abandoned vehicle report: within 72 hours after removal of a vehicle
to a storage yard or towing service under this section, the public agency or
towing service shall conduct a search of national data bases, including a data
base of vehicle identification numbers, to attempt to obtain the last state of
record of the vehicle in order to attempt to ascertain the name and address of
the person who owns or hold a lien on the vehicle.
(I.C. 9-22-1-19(a))
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.20 ABANDONED VEHICLE FUND.
   (A)   An Abandoned Vehicle Fund is established as required under I.C. 9-22-
1-30.
   (B)   The costs for removal and storage of an abandoned vehicle or parts not
claimed by the person who owns or holds a lien on a vehicle shall be paid from
the Abandoned Vehicle Fund. The charge payable by the person who owns or holds
a lien on a vehicle for towing, storing or removing an abandoned vehicle or
parts may not exceed the limits established by ordinance of the town.
(I.C. 9-22-1-25)
   (C)   The proceeds from the sale of abandoned vehicles or parts, including
charges for bills of sale, and money received from persons who own or hold
liens on vehicles for the cost of removal or storage of vehicles, shall be
deposited in the Abandoned Vehicle Fund by the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (1)   The costs incurred by any authorized towing agency in administering
this chapter shall be paid from the Abandoned Vehicle Fund.
      (2)   Money remaining in the Fund at the end of a year remains in the
Fund and does not revert to the General Fund.
(I.C. 9-22-1-27(b) through (d)) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.21 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS MAY BE ENACTED BY TOWN.
   To facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the city may
employ personnel; acquire equipment, property and facilities; and enter into
towing contracts for the removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles
and parts. The Town Council may establish additional procedures, by ordinance,
to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(I.C. 9-22-1-31) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.22 EXEMPTIONS FROM LIABILITY.
   The following are not liable for loss or damage to a vehicle or parts
occurring during the removal or storage or disposition of a vehicle or parts
under this chapter:
   (A)   A person who owns, leases or occupies property from which an abandoned
vehicle or its contents or parts are removed;
   (B)   The town;
   (C)   A towing service;
   (D)   An automobile scrapyard;
   (E)   A storage yard; and/or
   (F)   An agent of a person or entity listed in divisions (A) through (E)
above.
(I.C. 9-22-1-32) (Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.23 ABANDONED VEHICLE ON PRIVATE OR RENTAL PROPERTIES.
   The procedure to be followed for abandoned vehicles on private or rental
properties shall be as set forth in I.C. 9-22-1-15 through 9-22-1-18.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.24 TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   The City Council shall establish by ordinance the charges allowed for towing
and storage of abandoned vehicles, which shall be filed with the Bureau of
Motor Vehicles and shall be available for public inspection at the office of
the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.25 MAINTENANCE OF UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an occupant of private property to
continuously keep on the property:
      (1)   An unlicensed vehicle, operable or inoperable; or
      (2)   Parts from such a vehicle;
   in a location visible from public property or from a public roadway.
   (B)   This section specifically is directed at vehicles such as those used
in demolition derbies and/or which have been specifically adapted or
constructed for operation on privately-owned raceways.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility; or
   (B)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrap yard.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.27 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   An officer who finds a vehicle or parts such as are described in §
90.25 shall attach in a prominent place on or near the vehicle a notice tag
containing the following information:
   (A)   Date, time, officer’s name, city and address and telephone number to
contact for information;
   (B)   The vehicle or parts must be removed from public view within 72 hours;
and
   (C)   Failure to remove the vehicle or parts in question from public view
within 72 hours is unlawful and shall be punishable by a fine of up to $50 per
day.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.28 COVERING VEHICLE OR ENCLOSING IN GARAGE INSUFFICIENT.
   Covering a vehicle or parts such as those described in §
90.25 with tarp or other opaque covering or enclosing such items inside a fence
which obstructs the view of those items from public property or a public
roadway shall not satisfy the requirements of this chapter. It is the intent of
this chapter that such vehicles or parts be kept in a garage.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 CITATION.
   If, after 72 hours has passed from the time an officer places a notice tag
on a vehicle described in §
90.25, the vehicle or parts continue to be visible from public property or a
public roadway, the officer may issue a citation to the occupant of the private
property for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter is punishable by a fine of up to $50 per day
for each day which the occupant of the private property in question is not in
compliance following the passage of the 72-hour notice requirement.
   (B)   Recovery of costs associated with fines for this chapter shall be
turned into the courts for collection in small claims courts and not certified
to the County Auditor for collection as delinquent taxes if not paid within 30
days.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2016-3, passed 8-8-2016)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
Animals Generally
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   General regulations
   
91.03   Enforcement procedure; remedies
Vicious Dogs
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Confinement
   
91.17   Leash and muzzle required
   
91.18   Owner shall display warning signs
   
91.19   Dog fighting prohibited
   
91.20   Insurance
 
   
91.99   Penalty
ANIMALS GENERALLY
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrate.
   DANGEROUS, VICIOUS or FEROCIOUS ANIMALS. Any vertebrate animal with
propensity, tendency or disposition to attack, to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or other domestic animals; any vertebrate
animal which attacks a human being or another domestic animal without
provocation.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Livestock or animals belonging to species normally kept,
harbored and maintained by persons as pets, regardless of the particular reason
for which an animal is kept or maintained.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, horses, swine, sheep, goats, poultry and other animals
which ordinarily are kept, bred or maintained for purposes of animal husbandry
or commercial breeding but applies to any such animal regardless of the
particular reason for which the individual animal is kept or maintained.
   LOT SIZE. The total area of a tract of land, or of two or more contiguous
and adjoining lots or tracts of land, including any area occupied by buildings,
all of which a single owner or occupant holds at his or her exclusive disposal.
   RECKLESS. With clear and deliberate or grossly negligent disregard for the
safety and welfare of persons and property.
   TO RUN AT LARGE. For an animal to be loose upon public property or in a
public area, or upon private property other than that, of the animal’s owner or
keeper and without the consent of the owner or tenant of that private property,
without direct and responsible human control and supervision.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal that is not a domestic animal.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000)
§ 91.02 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   No person having ownership or custody of an animal shall within the
boundaries of the town:
   (A)   Knowingly or negligently permit a domestic animal to run at large or
to destroy or deface shrubbery, lawns, flowers, gardens or other property;
   (B)   Keep any animal, which, by barking, howling, yelping or making any
other noise that substantially or continually disturbs the peace and quiet of
any neighborhood, or which, by foul or noxious odors, distracts from the use,
enjoyment and value of surrounding properties;
   (C)   Keep any animal known to be dangerous, other than securely confined in
an enclosed area on the premises of the owner, with clearly visible signs
posted to warn persons of the presence of that animal;
   (D)   Knowingly or negligently permit an animal to kill or injure livestock
of other domestic animals, or to attack or injure any person who is engaged in
lawful pursuits;
   (E)   Knowingly or negligently permit any animal to chase or harass vehicles
or pedestrians on public streets and sidewalks or obstruct to normal use of
streets and sidewalks;
      (F)   (1)   Keep any livestock on any property having a lot size of less
than one acre and any hooved livestock on any property having pasture size of
less than one acre; provided, the town may, at its discretion, grant
conditional variance from this provision if it finds that surrounding
properties would not adversely be affected or that an unreasonable hardship
would result by virtue of disruption of an existing use of property at the time
this provision first becomes applicable thereto;
      (2)   (a)   If a person desires to have chickens and lives within the
Town of Elnora limits, he or she must permit the Town Council members to
inspect the area where he or she plans to maintain the chickens prior to
acquiring the birds.
         (b)   Once the Council has inspected the area, they will give a
decision as to whether the potential area is fit and passes all of the
following regulations:
            1.   Twelve hens will be allowed on 8,000 square feet;
            2.   The chicken coop and run must be located at least 30 feet from
any property line used for human housing and not owned by the chicken owner and
must be located at least 15 feet from the property line of any vacant lot;
            3.   The coop and associated chicken run must be appropriately
sized for the number of birds to be kept, 15 square feet per bird in the run;
            4.   A visual barrier surrounds the chicken coop and run that is at
least four feet tall, if the coop and run are visible to occupants of
neighboring lots; and
            5.   No roosters.
         (c)   All who keep a flock of chickens are expected to keep their
flock in a manner that is clean and sanitary in order to not pose a public
health risk or a public nuisance. The chicken coop and run must be kept clean,
dry and odor free. The coop, run and surrounding area must be free from trash
and accumulated droppings.
         (d)   All chickens must be provided feed and water at all times and
must be kept securely and enclosed on the property; and
   (G)   Walk any dog on the streets or other public places, except on a leash
controlled by the dog’s owner or other responsible person, and when not on a
leash, the dog shall be confined to the property of its owner.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000; Res. 2023-01, passed 6-20-2023; Ord. 2024-03,
passed 5-28-2024) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE; REMEDIES.
   To secure the proper enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, the
appropriate authorities of the town may pursue any or a combination of the
following remedies, as they deem most appropriate to the case: taking into
custody and impounding any animal found to be kept in violation of any
provision applicable under §
91.02. The impoundment may be in a home or facility chosen in the discretion of
the appropriate town authority; impoundment may also mean transporting the
animal to the Animal Control Facility in Washington, Indiana, and the owner of
said animal shall be responsible for any and all redemption fees at any such
facility.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000)
VICIOUS DOGS
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization or department possessing
or harboring or having the care or custody of a dog.
   UNCONFINED. Any dog which is not securely confined indoors or confined in a
securely enclosed and locked pen or structure upon the premises of the owner of
the dog. The pen or structure must have secure sides and a secure top attached
to the sides. If the pen or structure has no bottom secured to the sides, the
sides must be embedded into the ground no less than one foot. All such pens or
structures must be adequately lighted and kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   VICIOUS DOG. Includes the following:
      (1)   Any dog with a known vicious propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury to, or otherwise threaten the safety of
human beings or domestic animals;
      (2)   Any dog which because of its vicious propensity is capable of
inflicting serious physical harm or death to humans, and which would constitute
a danger to human life or property if it were not kept in the manner required
by this subchapter;
      (3)   Any dog which, without provocation, attacks or bites, or has
attacked or bitten a human being or domestic animal; or
      (4)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000)
§ 91.16 CONFINEMENT.
   The owner of a vicious dog shall not suffer or permit the dog to go
unconfined.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 LEASH AND MUZZLE REQUIRED.
   The owner of a vicious dog shall not suffer or permit the dog to go beyond
the premises of the owner unless the dog is securely muzzled and restrained by
a chain or leash, and under the physical restraint of a person. The muzzle
shall be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the dog or interfere
with its vision or respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any human or
animal.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 OWNER SHALL DISPLAY WARNING SIGNS.
   The owner of a vicious dog shall display, in a prominent place on his or her
premises, a clearly visible warning sign, indicating that there is a vicious
dog on the premises. A similar sign is required to be posted on the pen or
kennel of the animal.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 DOG FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, corporation, organization or department shall possess or
harbor or maintain care or custody of any dog for the purpose of dog fighting,
or train, torment, badger, bait or use any dog for the purpose of causing or
encouraging the dog to attack human beings or domestic animals.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 INSURANCE.
   Owners of vicious dogs must provide proof to the Town Clerk-Treasurer of
public liability insurance in the amount of at least $100,000, insuring the
owner for any personal injuries inflicted by his or her vicious dog.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a
civil penalty in a sum of not more that $500. In addition to the civil penalty,
any person found in violation of §§
91.15 through
91.20 concerning vicious dogs, shall surrender the vicious dog to an
appropriate town official or his or her designee, to be disposed of as the town
official or his or her designee sees fit.
   (B)   Recovery of costs associated with fines for this chapter shall be
turned into the courts for collection in small claims courts and not certified
to the County Auditor for collection as delinquent taxes if not paid within 30
days.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 4-6-2000; Ord. 2016-3, passed 8-8-2016)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances Generally
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.03   Certain conditions declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Trash and debris
   
92.05   Notice of violation
   
92.06   Abatement of violation
   
92.07   Continuous abatement notice
   
92.08   Schedule of abatement costs
   
92.09   Recovery of costs of abatement and administration
   
92.10   Procedure for appeals
   
92.11   Good Samaritan law
   
92.12   Nuisance created by others
Grass, Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
92.25   Definitions
   
92.26   Prohibition of tall grass, weeds and other rank vegetation
   
92.27   Code Enforcement Officials charged with enforcement
   
92.28   Notice of violation
   
92.29   Abatement of violation
   
92.30   Continuous abatement notice
   
92.31   Schedule of abatement costs
   
92.32   Recovery of costs of abatement and administration
   
92.33   Procedures for appeal
   
92.34   Good Samaritan law
 
   
92.99   Penalty
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED PREMISES. A chronically vacant parcel of land, as indicated by,
but not limited to, the lack of utilities or delinquent taxes, with or without
a structure, whose owner has neglected the responsibility of physical upkeep.
   AUTOMOBILE PARTS. Any portion or parts of any motor driven vehicle as
detached from the vehicle as a whole.
   HARMFUL CHEMICALS. A substance with, if spilled, released or allowed to
escape into the air, water, or soil, might damage the environment or endanger
the health of the public. HARMFUL CHEMICALS shall include, but not be limited
to, petroleum products, chlorine, acids, bases and other chemicals whose
release or improper storage may cause or increase the likelihood of damage or
harm to the environment or the public or persons’ health.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. Unable to move under its own power due to defective
or missing parts, and which has remained in the condition for a period of not
less than ten consecutive days.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any style or type of motor driven vehicle used for the
conveyance of persons or property.
   NUISANCE. Public nuisance. Also, a condition or activity which endangers the
health, safety or welfare of the public or of any individual; causes injury to
property; or interferes with an individual’s possession or ordinary use or
enjoyment of his or her property.
   OWNER. The owner of record, as found in the records of the Recorder of
Daviess County.
   OWNER’S ADDRESS. The most recent mailing address of the owner and being that
address to which the County Treasurer sends tax duplicates.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR A NUISANCE. A person whose activity is a nuisance, or
on whose property a condition which is a nuisance exists.
   RANK VEGETATION. Any plant growth, which is or may be harmful to the senses,
health or well-being of citizens of the city.
   REMOVAL. Activities required for the concentrating, collecting, loading,
hauling and disposal of trash and debris in a licensed sanitary landfill.
   SCRAP METAL. Pieces or parts of steel, iron, tin, zinc, copper, aluminum or
any alloy, whether covered with porcelain or any other material, whether intact
or in parts, which has served its usefulness in its original form and can no
longer be used for its originally intended purpose.
   SOLID WASTE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid and semisolid waste.
It includes trash and debris, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
offal and solid commercial, industrial and institutional wastes.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST.
      (1)   Any right in real property that may be affected in a substantial
way by actions authorized by this subchapter. Due to the nature of actions
which are authorized by this subchapter, the rights that maybe affected in a
substantial way shall include a fee interest, a present possessory interest or
an equitable interest of contract purchaser.
      (2)   The interest reflected by a deed, lease or land sale contract is
not a substantial property interest unless evidence of it is:
         (a)   Recorded in the office of the Recorder of the county; or
         (b)   The subject of written information that is received by the town
and includes the name and address of the holder of the interest described.
   TRASH and DEBRIS. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials. Includes
the animal and vegetable waste resulting from handling, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food; the residue from burning any combustible material;
paper; rags; wood; lumber not stacked and elevated 18 inches, protected from
rain, and free of insects and rodents; tree branches and yard wastes (unless
these materials are being incorporated into a properly managed, ongoing,
permitted (if required) composting operation); tin cans; metals; household
goods including, but not limited to, mattresses, furniture, major appliances,
clothing and other household items not intended for exposure to rain and other
inclement weather; and harmful chemicals; and any other material which creates
a nuisance.
   UNFIT FOR FURTHER USE. In a dangerous condition; having defective or missing
parts; or in a condition generally as to be unfit for further use as a
conveyance.
   WEEDS. Any growth of vegetation, other than trees, bushes, shrubs,
ornamental plants or agricultural plants cultivated in an orderly manner for
the purpose of producing food. Notwithstanding the foregoing, trees, bushes,
shrubs or agricultural plants, which have sprouted as volunteers and are
growing along fence lines and public rights-of-way, shall be considered to be
WEEDS.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.02 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is declared in this section to be a public nuisance,
those offenses which are known to the common law and statutes of the state as
public nuisances may be treated as such and be proceeded against as is provided
in this subchapter or in accordance with any other provision of law.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.03 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or person having control
or management of any land within the city to permit a public nuisance to
develop.
   (B)   The following conditions are declared to be public nuisances:
      (1)   Dangerous trees or stacks adjoining street. Any tree, stack or
other object standing in a condition that it will, if the condition is allowed
to continue, endanger the life, limb or property of, or cause hurt, damage or
injury to persons or property upon the public streets or public ways adjacent,
by the falling of parts;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish. An accumulation on any premises of filth,
refuse, trash, garbage or other waste material which endangers the public
health, welfare, or safety, or materially interferes with the peaceful
enjoyment by owners or occupants of adjacent property because of the danger
that it will catch or communicate fire, attract and propagate vermin, rodents
or insects, or blow rubbish into any street, sidewalk or property of another;
      (3)   Storage of explosives. The storage of explosive material which
creates a safety hazard to other property or persons in the vicinity;
      (4)   Weeds and rank vegetation. The following are deemed weeds and rank
vegetation for purposes of this subchapter: any weed, tree or grass which in
the opinion of the Street Commissioner and/or the Code Enforcement Officer are
unsightly and in need of trimming or cutting. However, the height at which weed
or rank vegetation becomes a violation of this subchapter shall be nine inches;
      (5)   Open wells. The maintenance of any open, uncovered or insecurely
covered cistern, cellar, well, pit, excavation or vault situated upon private
premises in any open or unfenced lot or place;
      (6)   Trees and shrubbery obstructing streets, sidewalks and drainage.
The growing and maintenance of trees or shrubbery which in any way interferes
with the use, construction or maintenance of streets or sidewalks, causes
injury to streets or sidewalks, or constitutes an obstruction to drainage;
      (7)   Keeping of animals. The failure to keep an animal’s pen, yard, lot
or other enclosure in a sanitary condition and free from preventable offensive
odors; and
      (8)   Junk; scrap metal; motor vehicles. The storage of motor vehicles in
an inoperative condition, motor vehicles unfit for further use, automobile
parts or scrap metal within the town limits except on premises authorized by
the town for the purposes.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 TRASH AND DEBRIS.
   (A)   Maintaining trash and debris. It shall be a violation of this
subchapter for the owner, or anyone having a substantial property interest in
real property, including open or vacant property within the city limits to
deposit or allow to remain on that real property any trash and debris, as
defined in §
92.01, which items might provide food or harborage for insects, rodents or
pests; pose a fire safety hazard; or pose a nuisance.
   (B)   Inspection; order upon determination of violation.
      (1)   (a)   When a complaint alleging a violation of this subchapter is
received by the town from any person, the Town Council, or through its own
employees, if it is determined that an inspector needs to enter the property to
complete an inspection, the town shall seek approval through an administrative
search warrant (I.C. 36-7-9-16) or other court order, from a court of law to
enter onto the property and make an inspection if the owner or person in
control of the property does not voluntarily give permission to enter the
property to make the inspection. The search shall be limited to the places
pertinent to the complaint or as outlined in the inspection warrant. No such
administrative search warrant or other court approval shall be necessary if the
inspection can be made from a public sidewalk, street, alley or other public
place or from adjoining property with that owner’s permission.
         (b)   If a violation has occurred, the town may enter the following
orders:
            1.   Order the owner or other responsible party to remove the trash
and debris;
            2.   Authorize the town employees to have the trash and debris
removed, or either by its own workers and equipment or by a contractor hired by
the town for this purpose. The cost incurred by the town in removing the trash
and debris, as well as the average processing cost incurred by the town in
processing the matter shall be added to the cost of removal of the trash and
debris; or
            3.   Any other order appropriate and authorized under I.C. 36-7-9-
5 or other law of the state.
      (2)   (a)   The person to be notified shall also be notified that if the
costs outlined above and authorized by law are not paid when due, they may be
added to his or her property taxes and/or be a lien against his or her
property.
         (b)   The notice shall also state:
            1.   The location of the violation;
            2.   The nature of the violation;
            3.   The time period for correcting the violation; and
            4.   The remedy the town may seek to abate the violation; and the
name, address and telephone number of the person to contact regarding the
violation.
   (C)   Inspection of occupied property; order to remove trash and debris.
When a complaint alleging a violation of this subchapter is received by the
town from any person, or through its own employees, if it is determined that an
inspector needs to enter the property to complete an inspection, the Department
shall seek approval through an administrative search warrant (I.C. 36-7-9-16)
or other court order, from a court of law to enter onto any occupied property
and make an inspection if the owner or person in control of the property does
not voluntarily give permission to enter the property to make the inspection.
The search shall be limited to the places pertinent to the complaint or as
outlined in the inspection warrant. No such administrative search warrant or
other court approval shall be necessary if the inspection can be made from a
public sidewalk, street, alley or other public place or from adjoining property
with that owner’s permission, or if the premises is abandoned. The town shall
document any trash and debris violation as outlined in this section and issue
an order to the owner to remove the trash and debris within ten calendar days.
The order becomes final ten days after notice is given unless the owner(s), or
other person holding a substantial interest in the property, requests a hearing
in writing and the written request is delivered to the town before the end of
the ten-day period. If a hearing is held, the owner or other interested party
holding a substantial interest in the property may appeal the decision of the
town as outlined in I.C. 36-7-9-8, and amended from time to time, to the
circuit or superior court of the county within the time limits provided in I.C.
36-7-9-8. If this matter is taken to a court, the city may recover its costs
and expenses, a fine, as well as all amounts allowed by law and this code.
   (D)   Unsafe premises. For purposes of this subchapter and I.C. 36-7-9-4,
the city now finds that a violation of this section constitutes an unsafe
premises by being a fire hazard, and/or a hazard to the public health, and/or a
public nuisance and/or a danger to a person or property.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Notice to owner; content.
      (1)   For any property found to be in violation of §
92.04, the town shall issue a notice to the owner ordering the removal of the
trash and debris within ten calendar days. The notice shall also state the
amount of penalty included if the trash and debris is not removed from the
premises within ten days. If the violation is corrected by the owner or other
responsible party within ten days, no further action will be taken and no
penalty imposed. The owner or other responsible party shall correct the
violation or request a hearing within ten days of the date of service. The
request for a hearing must be in writing, addressed to the town and delivered
in person or by certified mail. The person notified shall also be informed that
if the violation is not corrected within the ten days and a hearing is not
requested, the town shall have the trash and debris removed, either by its own
workers and equipment or by a contractor hired by the town for this purpose.
The monetary penalty, as well as the administrative cost incurred by the town
in processing the matter, shall be added to the cost of removal. The owner
shall also be notified that if the costs outlined above and authorized by law
are not paid when due, they may be added to the property taxes and/or be a lien
against the property.
      (2)   The notice shall also state:
         (a)   The location of the violation;
         (b)   The nature of the violation;
         (c)   The time period for correcting the violation;
         (d)   The remedy the town may seek to abate the violation; and
         (e)   The name, address and telephone number for the town to contact
regarding the violation.
   (B)   Manner of legal service. Notice of orders, hearings and continuation
of hearings shall be given in accordance with I.C. 36-7-9-25.
   (C)   Emergency action. No section of this subchapter shall prevent the town
from executing emergency action as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-9.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.06 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
   If the owner of the real property so served does not abate the nuisance
within ten days after receipt of the notice, the city, by its employees, agents
or contractors, may enter onto the real property and abate the nuisance,
keeping an accurate account of the expenses of the abatement.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.07 CONTINUOUS ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   In the event the owner of the real property has not abated the nuisance
after notice has been given in accordance with §
92.05 and the town, by its employees, agents or contractors, has abated the
nuisance in accordance with the foregoing sections, the town shall post a
continuous abatement notice at the real property at the time of initial
abatement, which shall serve as notice to the owner that each subsequent
violation during the same calendar year may be abated by the city, its agents
or contractors without further notice and expenses occurred.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.08 SCHEDULE OF ABATEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   In the event that the town abates a nuisance on real property, the
following fees shall be used for keeping an accurate account of the expenses of
the abatement. All fees for equipment or manpower are on a per hour basis with
a one hour minimum, except for administrative costs, which is a flat fee.
Administrative fee         $75
Backhoe                    $55
Chainsaw                   $10
Large dump truck           $30
Leaf blower                $10
Line trimmer (weed eater)  $15
Pickup truck               $25
Primary riding mower       $35
Push mower                 $15
Roundup (per gallon)       $25
Secondary riding mower     $30
Small dump truck           $25
Street Department employee $30
Tire and rim charge        $3.50
Tire charge                $3
Tractor and rotary cutter  $35
Walk behind brush cutter   $30
 
   (B)   Not all equipment listed will necessarily be used for each abatement.
A minimum fee for abating tall grass would be $140.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.09 RECOVERY OF COSTS OF ABATEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Upon abatement of the nuisance by the town, its employees, agents or
contractors, the town shall issue a bill to the owner of the real property upon
which the violation occurred, for the costs incurred in abating the violation,
together with an administrative fee in the sum of $75, plus the cost of service
of the notice. In the event the bill is not paid within 30 days, the costs
shall be certified to the County Auditor for collection as delinquent taxes.
   (B)   Recovery of costs associated with fines for this subchapter shall be
turned into the courts for collection in small claims courts and not certified
to the County Auditor for collection as delinquent taxes if not paid within 30
days.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2016-3, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 92.10 PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS.
   An owner of real property who has received notice of a violation of this
subchapter, or who has received a bill for abatement of a violation under this
subchapter, may appeal the same to the Town Council by requesting a hearing.
The appeal shall be initiated in writing within ten days of the receipt of the
notice or the bill. The request for a hearing must be addressed to the Elnora
Town Hall, Elnora, Indiana, and delivered in person or by certified mail. Upon
receipt of a hearing request, the Council will place a moratorium on the ten-
day abatement deadline until a verdict has been reached by the Town Council.
The appeal shall thereafter be referred to the Town Council for hearing at its
next regular or specially called meeting.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.11 GOOD SAMARITAN LAW.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 34-30-26-5(a), Limited Authorization to Enter
Suspected Vacant or Abandoned Real Property; Limited Immunity, except as
provided in division (D) below, a person who is not the owner of real property
or who is a creditor, and who suspects that the property may be vacant or
abandoned, may enter upon the premises of the real property to do the
following:
      (1)   Without entering any structure located on the real property,
visually inspect the real property to determine whether the real property may
be vacant or abandoned; and
      (2)   Perform any of the following actions:
         (a)   Secure the real property;
         (b)   Remove trash or debris from the grounds of the real property;
         (c)   Landscape, maintain or mow the grounds of the real property; or
         (d)   Remove or paint over graffiti on the real property.
   (B)   A person who:
      (1)   Enters upon the premises of real property to visually inspect the
property, as permitted under division (A)(1) above; and
      (2)   After inspecting the real property, determines that the real
property may be vacant or abandoned, may notify the appropriate enforcement
authority of the suspected vacant or abandoned status of the property and
request that the enforcement authority inspect the property to determine
whether the property is in fact vacant or abandoned.
   (C)   A person that enters upon the premises of real property as permitted
under this section:
      (1)   Is immune from civil liability for an act or omission related to
the entry or to any action described in division (A)(2) above, unless the act
or omission constitutes gross negligence or willful, wanton or intentional
misconduct; and
      (2)   Shall be held harmless from and against all claims of civil or
criminal trespass.
   (D)   In the case of real property that is subject to a mortgage, the
creditor in the mortgage transaction may not enter upon the premises of the
real property under division (A) above if entry is barred by an automatic stay
issued by a bankruptcy court.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.12 NUISANCE CREATED BY OTHERS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, it shall not be essential that the
nuisance be created or contributed to by the owner, occupant or person having
control or management of the premises, but merely that the nuisance be created
or contributed to by licensees, invitees, guests or other persons for whose
conduct the owner or operator is responsible, or by persons for whose conduct
the owner or operator is not responsible, but by the exercise of reasonable
care ought to have become aware of.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015)
GRASS, WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 92.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS. The Town Council, Clerk-Treasurer and/or Police
Department.
   GRASS. Vegetation consisting of typically short plants with long narrow
leaves cultivated on lawns and pastures.
   OWNER. The owner of record, as found on the warranty deed, as found in the
records of the Recorder of the county.
   RANK VEGETATION. The uncontrolled growth of any grass, weed or other plant
beyond nine inches in height, excluding trees, flowers, ornamental shrubs and
plants (landscaping), and agricultural crops.
   WEED. Any uncultivated plants occurring naturally that have a tendency to
dominate or drive out grasses or other cultivated plants.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.26 PROHIBITION OF TALL GRASS, WEEDS AND OTHER RANK VEGETATION.
   The uncontrolled growth of grass, weeds and other rank vegetation tends to
provide harborage for undesirable insects, rodents and other vermin,
contributes to the blight of neighborhoods, and is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and an endangerment to the public health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city. Any weed, tree or grass which in the opinion of the Town
Council, Clerk-Treasurer and/or Police Department are unsightly and in need of
trimming or cutting, shall be considered a violation. However, it shall be
unlawful for the owner of any real property located within the corporate limits
of the town to permit any tall grass, weeds or other rank vegetation to grow to
a height exceeding nine inches.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-11-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS CHARGED WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Council, Clerk-Treasurer and/or Police
Department of the town to investigate any alleged violations of this
subchapter, and upon determining that a violation has occurred, to cause the
abatement of such nuisance by following the procedures provided in this
subchapter, or in any other manner as authorized by law.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.28 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The town shall investigate any alleged violation of this subchapter
that comes to its attention and, upon determining that a violation has
occurred, it shall issue a ten-day written notice to the owner of the real
property upon which the violation occurs, to remove the vegetation.
   (B)   The notice shall be in writing and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Description of the violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   Address of the real property on which the violation occurs;
      (3)   Order of abatement to abate the violation and remove the offending
vegetation within ten days of receipt of the notice; and
      (4)   Failing to comply with the order of abatement will result in the
town entering the real property for the purposes of abating the violation, and
the cost thereof, together with administrative expenses, shall be billed to the
owner, and if not paid within 30 days, certified to the County Auditor for
collection as delinquent property taxes are collected.
   (C)   The notice shall be mailed by first class mail, posted on the property
or served by an equivalent means as permitted under I.C. 1-1-7-1, to the owner
of the real property where the violation occurs as shown on the most recent
records of the County Auditor. In the event there are multiple owners, notice
to at least one of the owners in accordance with the foregoing shall be
sufficient.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.29 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION.
   If the owner of the real property so served does not abate the nuisance
within ten days after receipt of the notice, the city, by its employees, agents
or contractors, may enter onto the real property and abate the nuisance,
keeping an accurate account of the expenses of the abatement.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.30 CONTINUOUS ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   In the event the owner of the real property has not abated the nuisance
after notice has been given in accordance with §
92.28 and the town, by its employees, agents or contractors, has abated the
nuisance in accordance with the foregoing sections, the town shall post a
continuous abatement notice at the real property at the time of initial
abatement, which shall serve as notice to the owner that each subsequent
violation during the same calendar year may be abated by the city, its agents
or contractors without further notice and expenses occurred.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.31 SCHEDULE OF ABATEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   In the event that the town abates a nuisance on real property, the
following fees shall be used for keeping an accurate account of the expenses of
the abatement. All fees for equipment or manpower are on a per hour basis with
a one hour minimum, except for administrative costs, which is a flat fee.
Administrative fee         $75
Backhoe                    $55
Chainsaw                   $10
Large dump truck           $30
Leaf blower                $10
Line trimmer (weed eater)  $15
Pickup truck               $25
Primary riding mower       $35
Push mower                 $15
Roundup (per gallon)       $25
Secondary riding mower     $30
Small dump truck           $25
Street Department employee $30
Tire and rim charge        $3.50
Tire charge                $3
Tractor and rotary cutter  $35
Walk behind brush cutter   $30
 
   (B)   Not all equipment listed will necessarily be used for each abatement.
A minimum fee for abating tall grass would be $140.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.32 RECOVERY OF COSTS OF ABATEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Upon abatement of the nuisance by the town, its employees, agents or
contractors, the town shall issue a bill to the owner of the real property upon
which the violation occurred, for the costs incurred in abating the violation,
together with an administrative fee in the sum of $75, plus the cost of service
of the notice. In the event the bill is not paid within 30 days, the costs
shall be certified to the County Auditor for collection as delinquent taxes.
   (B)   Recovery of costs associated with fines for this subchapter shall be
turned into the courts for collection in small claims courts and not certified
to the County Auditor for collection as delinquent taxes if not paid within 30
days.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2016-3, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 92.33 PROCEDURES FOR APPEAL.
   An owner of real property who has received notice of a violation of this
subchapter, or who has received a bill for abatement of a violation under this
subchapter, may appeal the same to the Town Council by requesting a hearing.
The appeal shall be initiated in writing within ten days of the receipt of the
notice or the bill. The request for a hearing must be addressed to the Town
Hall, Elnora, Indiana, and delivered in person or by certified mail. Upon
receipt of a hearing request, the Council will place a moratorium on the ten-
day abatement deadline until a verdict has been reached by the Town Council.
The appeal shall thereafter be referred to the Town Council for hearing at its
next regular or specially called meeting.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.34 GOOD SAMARITAN LAW.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 34-30-26-5(a), Limited Authorization to Enter
Suspected Vacant or Abandoned Real Property; Limited Immunity, except as
provided in division (D) below, a person who is not the owner of real property
or who is a creditor, and who suspects that the property may be vacant or
abandoned, may enter upon the premises of the real property to do the
following:
      (1)   Without entering any structure located on the real property,
visually inspect the real property to determine whether the real property may
be vacant or abandoned; and
      (2)   Perform any of the following actions:
         (a)   Secure the real property;
         (b)   Remove trash or debris from the grounds of the real property;
         (c)   Landscape, maintain or mow the grounds of the real property; or
         (d)   Remove or paint over graffiti on the real property.
   (B)   A person who:
      (1)   Enters upon the premises of real property to visually inspect the
property, as permitted under division (A)(1) above; and
      (2)   After inspecting the real property, determines that the real
property may be vacant or abandoned, may notify the appropriate enforcement
authority of the suspected vacant or abandoned status of the property and
request that the enforcement authority inspect the property to determine
whether the property is in fact vacant or abandoned.
   (C)   A person that enters upon the premises of real property as permitted
under this section:
      (1)   Is immune from civil liability for an act or omission related to
the entry or to any action described in division (A)(2) above, unless the act
or omission constitutes gross negligence or willful, wanton, or intentional
misconduct; and
      (2)   Shall be held harmless from and against all claims of civil or
criminal trespass.
   (D)   In the case of real property that is subject to a mortgage, the
creditor in the mortgage transaction may not enter upon the premises of the
real property under division (A) above if entry is barred by an automatic stay
issued by a bankruptcy court.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-11-2015)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.12, or who shall resist or obstruct the carrying out of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.12, shall be guilty of a municipal ordinance violation, and, in addition to
being responsible for the costs of abatement and administrative expenses as
provided for in §
92.08, shall be punishable by a municipal fine of $50 for the first offense,
and $100 for the second or subsequent offense occurring in the same calendar
year.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
92.25 through
92.34, or who shall resist or obstruct the carrying out of the provisions of §§
92.25 through
92.34, shall be guilty of a municipal ordinance violation, and, in addition to
being responsible for the costs of abatement and administrative expenses as
provided for in §
92.31, shall be punishable by a municipal fine of $50 for the first offense,
and $100 for the second or subsequent offense occurring in the same calendar
year.
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2015-05, passed 5-11-2015)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavations and Construction
   
93.01   Opening permit required
   
93.02   Application and cash deposit
   
93.03   Restoration of pavement
   
93.04   Barriers around excavations
   
93.05   Warning lights
   
93.06   Sidewalk construction
Obstructions
   
93.20   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
93.21   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
93.22   Materials on street or sidewalk
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.01 OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than an authorized town official,
to make any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk or public way of the town
unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to commencement of
the work.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND CASH DEPOSIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the authorized town official. Application shall be made on a
form prescribed by the Town Council, giving the exact location of the proposed
opening, the kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated and other facts
as may be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash deposit
sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been posted with the authorized
town official, conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of
excavations and restoration of all surfaces disturbed.
§ 93.03 RESTORATION OF PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The opening and restoration of a pavement or other surface shall be
performed under the direction and to the satisfaction of the authorized town
official, and in accordance with rules, regulations and specifications approved
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Upon failure or refusal of the permittee satisfactorily to fill the
excavation, restore the surface and remove all excess materials within the time
specified in the permit or where not specified therein, within a reasonable
time after commencement of the work, the town may proceed without notice to
make the fill and restoration, and the deposit referred to in §
93.02 shall be forfeited. Thereupon the deposit shall be paid into the
appropriate town fund, except the part demanded and paid to the permittee as
the difference between the deposit and the charges of the town for restoration
services performed by it. If the amount of the services performed by the town
should exceed the amount of the deposit, the Clerk-Treasurer or other proper
administrative officer shall proceed to collect the remainder due from the
permittee.
§ 93.04 BARRIERS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or opening any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way shall have the excavation or
opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to persons or animals.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any person engaged in or employing others in excavating or otherwise in any
manner obstructing a portion or all of any street, sidewalk, alley or other
public way, at all times during the night season shall install and maintain at
least two illuminated red lamps which shall be securely and conspicuously
posted on, at or near each end of the obstruction or excavation, and if the
space involved exceeds 50 feet in extent, at least one additional lamp for each
added 50 feet or portion thereof excavated or obstructed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the authorized town official to supervise
construction or repair of sidewalks within the town. He or she shall cause
specifications to be prepared for the construction of the various kinds of
pavements and transmit the specifications to the Town Council for approval.
When the specifications are approved, the Town Council shall advertise for
proposals to do all the work which may be ordered by the town in construction
and repair of sidewalks, and shall authorize the town executive to contract
therefor, for a period not exceeding one year, with the lowest responsible
bidder, who shall give bond for the faithful performance of the work. The town
executive, if authorized by Town Council, may make separate contracts for the
different kinds of work with different parties.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.20 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the town by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
within the town by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.22 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles or substances of any kind so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
94.01   Definition
   
94.02   Prohibited
   
94.03   Exemptions
   
94.04   Variances
   
94.05   Conditions applying to exemptions and variances
   
94.06   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the air, without passing
through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber. No burning of household
trash in barrels, on the ground or in pits will be allowed.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 94.02 PROHIBITED.
   No person shall start, kindle, cause, allow or maintain any form of open
burning of any materials on private or public property, except as specifically
authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 10-14-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following types of burning are allowed:
   (A)   The burning of charcoal, clean untreated wood (tree limbs, branches or
fire wood), and other cooking fuels customarily used in an outdoor grill,
traditional food cooking devices or campfires; and
   (B)   (1)   Fires used for recreational or ceremonial purposes such as
school pep rally fires or the celebration of Scout activities.
      (2)   Recreational or ceremonial fires shall meet the following
conditions.
         (a)   Only clean untreated wood or charcoal shall be used. Paper or
petroleum products can be used for ignition purposes only.
         (b)   The fire shall not be ignited more than two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place and shall be extinguished upon the
conclusion of the activity.
         (c)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1,000 cubic feet (for
example: ten feet by ten feet by ten feet).
         (d)   The local Fire Department shall be notified 24 hours in advance
if the pile to be burned is more than 125 cubic feet (for example: five feet by
five feet by five feet).
         (e)   The fire shall not be for disposal purposes.
         (f)   The fire shall not be within 500 feet of a pipeline or fuel
storage area.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 10-14-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Other types of fires may be approved as follows. Any other type of
fire whereby a citizen of the town has obtained a variance from the provisions
of this chapter by petitioning the Town Council may be allowed. However, the
Town Council cannot grant a variance for burning that would otherwise violate
the provisions of the 326 I.A.C. 4-1 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 13-17-9.
   (B)   The following types of fires may be allowed if approved by the State
Department of Environmental Management:
      (1)   Firefighter training;
      (2)   Fire extinguisher training; and
      (3)   Vegetation propagation.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 94.05 CONDITIONS APPLYING TO EXEMPTIONS AND VARIANCES.
   The following conditions apply to all exemptions and variances.
   (A)   Burning shall be done during safe weather conditions. Burning shall
not occur, during high winds, temperature inversions, air stagnation or when a
pollution alert or ozone action day has been declared.
   (B)   Fires must be attended at all times until completely extinguished.
   (C)   Fires must be extinguished if they create a fire hazard, nuisance,
pollution problem or threat to public health.
   (D)   Firefighting equipment adequate for the size of the fire shall be on-
site and nearby during times of burning.
   (E)   Burning shall not be for disposal purposes.
   (F)   All burning shall comply with other federal, state and local laws,
rules and ordinances.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 10-14-2013) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The open burning provisions are enforceable by the firefighters and law
enforcement officers within the town, acting on his or her own initiative or at
the request of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 10-14-2013)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of this chapter shall be subject to the
following procedures.
      (1)   The Fire or Police Department personnel shall issue a warning
notice to a first-time violator stating that he or she is in violation. The
person must then correct the violation by immediately extinguishing the fire.
Failure or refusal to immediately extinguish the fire shall result in a
citation being issued.
      (2)   Issuance of a citation to the violator shall result in the
imposition of a $100 fine as administered by the town pursuant to Ord. 2005-03.
      (3)   Failure or refusal by the violator to immediately extinguish the
fire in violation of this chapter shall also result in the Fire Department
having the authority to go upon private property to extinguish said fire.
      (4)   Fire Departments will then have the legal right to bill at a
minimum rate of $250 and it is not paid within 30 days will be subject to court
with a $100 administrative fee, original bill rate and court cost.
      (5)   Each subsequent starting, kindling, causing or allowing of a new
fire where a warning notice or citation has been issued shall be considered a
separate offense.
   (B)   Recovery of costs associated with fines for this chapter shall be
turned into the courts for collection in small claims courts and not certified
to the County Auditor for collection as delinquent taxes if not paid within 30
days.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 10-14-2013; Ord. 2016-3, passed 8-8-2016)
CHAPTER 95: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
95.01   Policy statement
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Unlawful practice
   
95.04   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
95.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
95.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
95.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
95.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
95.09   Exemptions
   
95.10   Administrative enforcement of the chapter
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq.,
as amended, the Federal Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Includes any person who:
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-2)
   COMMISSION. The State Civil Rights Commission created pursuant to I.C. 22-9-
1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
95.04,
95.05,
95.06,
95.07 or
95.08 or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS.
      (1)   One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years
being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of such
individual or the written permission of such parent or other person.
      (2)   The protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of
familial status shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process
of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18
years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such family being further defined in the definition for FAMILIAL STATUS above.
Also, pursuant to 24 C.F.R. part 5, the definition of FAMILY is revised to
include families regardless of the actual or perceived sexual orientation,
gender identity or marital status of its members.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the Americans
with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq.; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in the Controlled Substances
Act, being 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-9.5-2-10(b)); nor does the term HANDICAP
include an individual solely because that individual is a transvestite (I.C.
22-9.5-2-10(c)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under U.S.C. Title 11, receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13) (Ord. 2013-06, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 95.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
95.09 and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against discrimination in the sale or
rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-1 and in §
95.04 shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
95.04 shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesman, or any person in the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent or salesman, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
95.04(A)(3), but nothing in this division (B)(1)(b) shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer this title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   (A)   As made applicable by §
95.03 and except as exempted by §§
95.03(B) and
95.09, it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (3)   To make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed, or
published any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
      (4)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
      (5)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or
rent any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry
into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
      (6)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
         (a)   That buyer or renter;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (7)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         (a)   That person;
         (b)   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
         (c)   Any person associated with that person.
      (8)   For purposes of this division (A), DISCRIMINATION includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
may where it is reasonable to do so condition permission for a modification on
the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to the condition
that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13,1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations; and
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   (B)   Compliance with the appropriate requirement of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. and of the American
National Standard for Buildings and Facilities providing accessibility and
usability for physically handicapped people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1)
suffices to satisfy the requirements of division (A)(8)(c)3.c. above.
   (C)   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available to
an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health of
safety of other individuals of whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
95.03,
95.04,
95.05 or
95.06.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate shall be fined.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 3-11-2013) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial
purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodging to its members
or from giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the State Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly person (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, person 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 95.10 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT OF THE CHAPTER.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner as set forth
in division (B) below shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the sections of this
chapter by complainants to the State Civil Rights Commission for administrative
enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6 and the chief elected official of
the town, shall refer all said complaints to the Commission as provided for
under division (A) above to said Commission for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town, or the chief elected
official’s designee, shall provide information on remedies available to any
aggrieved person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 3-11-2013)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person violating this chapter shall be fined according to local,
state and federal law; and if bodily injury results shall be fined not more
than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both; and if death
results shall be subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
   (B)   Recovery of costs associated with fines for this chapter shall be
turned into the courts for collection in small claims courts and not certified
to the County Auditor for collection as delinquent taxes if not paid within 30
days.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 3-11-2013; Ord. 2016-3, passed 8-8-2016)
 
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   SOLICITORS
      
112.   SALES OF ALCOHOL
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses required to engage in certain trades, businesses or
professions
   
110.02   Application for license
   
110.03   Standards; issuance of license
   
110.04   Date and duration of license
   
110.05   License not transferable
   
110.06   License certificate to be displayed
   
110.07   Revocation or suspension
   
110.08   Appeal and review
   
110.09   Exemptions
§ 110.01 LICENSES REQUIRED TO ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRADES, BUSINESSES OR
PROFESSIONS.
   No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses or professions for
which licenses are required by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the town without first applying for and obtaining a license from
the Clerk-Treasurer or other duly authorized issuing authority.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All original applications for licenses, unless otherwise specifically
provided, shall be made to the Clerk-Treasurer in writing upon forms to be
furnished by him or her and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and of each officer, partner or business
associate;
      (2)   His or her present occupation and place of business;
      (3)   His or her place of residence for five years next preceding the
date of application;
      (4)   The nature and location of the intended business or enterprise;
      (5)   The period of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   A description of the merchandise to be sold, if for a vendor; and
      (7)   Other information concerning the applicant and his or her business
as may be reasonable and proper, having regard to the nature of the license
desired.
   (B)   Renewal of an annual license may be granted to a licensee in good
standing upon the original application, unless otherwise provided.
   (C)   With each original or renewal application, the applicant shall deposit
the fee required for the license requested.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly make any false statement or
representation in the license application.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 STANDARDS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the
proper fee, if approval by another officer or department is not required, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall forthwith deposit the fee in the General Fund of the town
and issue to the applicant a proper license certificate signed by the Clerk-
Treasurer and any other appropriate town official. If for any reason the
license is not issued, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (C)   (1)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation
discloses tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would
pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare.
      (2)   Tangible evidence of any of the following will constitute valid
reasons for disapproval of an application:
         (a)   The applicant has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
         (b)   The applicant has made willful misstatements in the application;
         (c)   The applicant has committed prior violations of ordinances
pertaining to itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
         (d)   The applicant has committed prior fraudulent acts;
         (e)   The applicant has a record of continual breaches of solicited
contracts; or
         (f)   The applicant has an unsatisfactory moral character.
§ 110.04 DATE AND DURATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall not be valid beyond the expiration date therein
specified and, unless otherwise provided, shall not extend beyond December 31
of the year issued. However, at any time after December 14, licenses may be
issued for the ensuing calendar year. Unless otherwise specified, the full
annual fee will be required of licensees irrespective of the date of issue of
the license.
   (B)   In no event shall a license be granted to any business or any person
for a longer time than one year.
§ 110.05 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise
or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE CERTIFICATE TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Every licensee carrying on business at a fixed location shall keep posted in
a prominent place upon the licensed premises the license certificate. Other
licensees shall carry their license certificates at all times and whenever
requested by any officer or citizen, shall exhibit the license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 110.08 APPEAL AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
110.03 or
110.07 shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person’s last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person by mail at his or her last known address, at least ten days prior to the
date set for the hearing.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any business, occupation
or profession which is exempt from municipal licensing or license taxes
pursuant to state or federal law.
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Permit required; fee
   
111.02   Hours
   
111.03   Permit required to be shown
   
111.04   Exemptions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   The town affixes a fee of $50 for a sales permit for any person, group
or company to solicit door to door within the town limits.
   (B)   Solicitors shall obtain a permit from the Clerk-Treasurer at the Town
Hall during normal working hours, prior to any soliciting activity. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall verify the legitimacy of applicant before issuing the permit.
In the case of a company or group, all solicitors’ names must appear on the
permit. Each person must be verified as a legitimate company or group
representative, by proper identification, or company person not present in the
group. A $50 permit will be required for every two representatives. Permits
will be good for 30 days after issue date.
(Ord. 93-3, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 HOURS.
   Soliciting may take place only between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
(Ord. 93-3, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 PERMIT REQUIRED TO BE SHOWN.
   The permit must be shown on, or at, each call.
(Ord. 93-3, passed 2-1-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Local, not-for-profit organizations, do not fall under this chapter, such as
churches, schools, Girl or Boy Scouts, clubs and the like.
(Ord. 93-3, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   The penalty for noncompliance with this chapter is a $100 fine per person,
revocation of the permit, an escort from the town limits and non-permitable for
one year after infraction.
(Ord. 93-3, passed 2-1-1993)
CHAPTER 112: SALES OF ALCOHOL
Section
   
112.01   Consumption on licensed premises
   
112.02   Definition
§ 112.01 CONSUMPTION ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   The sale of alcoholic spiritous beverages to patrons or customers for
consumption on licensed premises within the town is permitted.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-3-1954)
§ 112.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSED PREMISES. Includes premises occupied by the holder of a permit
granted by the Alcoholic Beverage Commission of the state and shall not
include, nor require, a license issued by the town.
(Ord. 107, passed 11-3-1954)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS
      
131.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS
Section
Firearms on Town Property
   
130.01   Prohibition
   
130.02   Signs required
   
130.03   Exemptions
FIREARMS ON TOWN PROPERTY
§ 130.01 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall carry a concealed firearm in or on any property, park,
building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as lessee,
operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, upon which appropriate signage has been
placed indicating that concealed firearms are prohibited therein.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which the
general public can access the building, appurtenant premises or park. The town
shall exercise discretion in determining the necessity and appropriate location
for other signs posted on the interior of the building, appurtenant premises or
park.
§ 130.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to persons
who are exempt from concealed weapons prohibitions under state or federal law
or to any duly authorized local, state or federal law enforcement officer while
on duty.
   (B)   The prohibitions set forth in this chapter shall not apply to highways
or public highways owned or administered by the town.
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Curfew hours for minors younger than 16 years of age
   
131.02   Curfew hours for children 16 and 17 years of age
   
131.03   Emancipation
   
131.04   Defenses
   
131.05   Enforcement
   
131.06   Curfew responsibility of parent, guardian or custodian
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 CURFEW HOURS FOR MINORS YOUNGER THAN 16 YEARS OF AGE.
   It is a curfew violation for a child less than 16 years of age to be in a
public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 CURFEW HOURS FOR CHILDREN 16 AND 17 YEARS OF AGE.
   It is a curfew violation for a child 16 or 17 years of age to be in a public
place:
   (A)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m on Saturday and Sunday;
   (B)   After 11:00 p.m. Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday; or
   (C)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 EMANCIPATION.
   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child has been
emancipated:
   (A)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-67-4-15.7;
   (B)   By virtue of having married; or
   (C)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 131.04 DEFENSES.
   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child engaged in
the prohibited conduct while:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent, guardian or custodian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian or
custodian;
   (C)   Participating in or going to or returning from:
      (1)   Lawful employment;
      (2)   A school-sanctioned activity;
      (3)   A religious event;
      (4)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property from
an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
      (5)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights protected
under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Articles 1, § 31
of the Constitution of the state, or both, such as freedom of speech and the
right to assembly; or
      (6)   An activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training or other care under the supervision of
one or more adults.
   (D)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written direction
of the child’s parent, guardian or custodian; or
   (E)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location outside
the state to another location outside the state.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 131.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of this chapter unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      (1)   The child has violated this chapter; and
      (2)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
   (B)   A child who commits a curfew violation under this chapter is subject
to enforcement procedures provided in I.C. 36-1-6 and I.C. 34-28-5. Any
complaint filed against a child for a violation of this chapter shall be filed
in a court of general jurisdiction and the Town Council shall direct a copy of
the complaint to the child’s parent, guardian or custodian, if such person is
known or can be identified by reasonable inquiry.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 131.06 CURFEW RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT, GUARDIAN OR CUSTODIAN.
   (A)   It is and shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian or other person
having custody over a child to permit a child to commit a curfew violation
under this chapter.
   (B)   If a parent, guardian, custodian or child is charged with a second or
subsequent violation of this chapter, there shall be presumption that the
parent, guardian or custodian is responsible under this chapter for the child’s
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who is found guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding $50 per violation.
   (B)   In addition to the imposition of the foregoing fine, the court, upon
request, may order such injunctive relief as is appropriate and necessary to
prevent the child from committing further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
      
153.   MOBILE HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOUSING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Property site requirements
   
150.02   Unsafe buildings
§ 150.01 PROPERTY SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The site shall contain at least 5,000 square feet of land area for the
use of the occupant:
      (1)   Width. No less than 50 feet; and
      (2)   Depth. No less than 100 feet.
   (B)   The site shall have a 300 square foot off-street parking space for an
automobile.
   (C)   The site shall have frontage on an approved roadway;
   (D)   The home shall not be constructed closer than 20 feet to the side lot
lines nor closer than 20 feet to the front lot line, or within 25 feet of the
rear lot line.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park or
permit the parking of more than one manufactured home upon any lot or tract of
land within the town, regardless of the size of the lot or tract.
   (F)   The size of a single-family dwelling shall be no less than 720 square
feet and at least one room must be habitable with at least one window.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 150.02 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Establishment. Under the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9 et seq., there is
hereby established the Town of Elnora Unsafe Building Law. The provisions of
I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29 are hereby incorporated by reference in the
Town of Elnora Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within the town for the
inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by that
law, as amended
from time to time, and the provisions of this section. In the event the
provisions of this section shall conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-
1 through 36-7-9-29, then the provisions of the state statute shall control.
   (B)   Definitions. All definitions as stated in I.C. 36-7-9 are incorporated
by reference as if set forth in full herein, including, but not necessarily
limited to:
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a mortgage interest,
or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
      UNSAFE BUILDING. The description of an unsafe building contained in I.C.
36-7-9-4 is incorporated as follows:
         (a)   A building or structure, or any part of a building or structure,
that is any of the following shall be considered an unsafe building:
            1.   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
            2.   A fire hazard;
            3.   A hazard to the public health;
            4.   A public nuisance;
            5.   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance; or
            6.   Vacant or blighted and not maintained in a manner that would
allow human habitation, occupancy, or use under the requirements of a statute
or an ordinance.
         (b)   The following are considered unsafe premises:
            1.   An unsafe building; and
            2.   The tract of real property on which the unsafe building is
located.
         (c)   A tract of real property that does not contain a building or
structure, not including land used for production agriculture, is also
considered an unsafe premises if the tract of real property is:
            1.   A fire hazard;
            2.   A hazard to public health;
            3.   A public nuisance; or
            4.   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or an ordinance.
   (C)   Enforcing authority. The Town Council President shall be the enforcing
authority herein and shall be authorized upon approval of the Town of Elnora
Unsafe Building Board (TEUBB), which can be made on an annual basis, to engage
the services of an engineer if required to perform the inspection on any
particular building and/or premises. The Town Council President shall be
authorized to administer and to proceed under the provisions of the law in
ordering the repair or removal of any buildings found to be unsafe as specified
therein or as specified hereafter.
   (D)   Contents of order/notice.
      (1)   The Town Council President may issue an order requiring action
relative to any unsafe premises, including the following, in accordance with
standards established by ordinance:
         (a)   Vacation of a unsafe building;
         (b)   Sealing an unsafe building against intrusion by unauthorized
persons, in accordance with a uniform standard established by ordinance;
         (c)   Extermination of vermin in and about the unsafe premises;
         (d)   Removal of trash, debris, fire hazardous material, or a public
health hazard in and about the unsafe premises;
         (e)   Repair or rehabilitation of an unsafe building to bring it into
compliance with standards for building condition or maintenance required for
human habitation, occupancy, or use by a statute, a rule adopted under I.C. 4-
22-2, or an ordinance;
         (f)   Demolition and removal of part of an unsafe building;
         (g)   Demolition and removal of an unsafe building if:
            1.   The general condition of the building warrants removal; or
            2.   The building continues to require reinspection and additional
abatement action after an initial abatement action was taken pursuant to notice
and an order; and
         (h)   Requiring an unsafe building to be sealed for a period of more
than 90 days pursuant to the following:
            1.   Sealing against intrusion by unauthorized persons and the
effects of weather;
            2.   Exterior improvements to make the building compatible in
appearance with other buildings in the area; and
            3.   Continuing maintenance and upkeep of the building and
premises.
      (2)   Notice of the order must be given under I.C. 36-9-7-25. The ordered
action must be reasonably related to the condition of the unsafe premises and
the nature and use of nearby properties. The order supersedes any permit
relating to building or land use, whether that permit is obtained before or
after the order is issued.
      (3)   The order must contain the following:
         (a)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued;
         (b)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that are
the subject of the order;
         (c)   The action that the order requires;
         (d)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished, measured from the time when the notice of the order is given;
         (e)   If a hearing is required, a statement indicating the exact time
and place of the hearing, and stating that person to whom the order was issued
is entitled to appear at the hearing with or without legal counsel, present
evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and present arguments;
         (f)   If a hearing is not required, a statement that an order under
divisions (3)(b), (3)(c), (3)(d), or (3)(e) above becomes final ten days after
notice is given, unless a hearing is requested in writing by a person holding a
fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable interest of a contract
purchaser in the unsafe premises, and the request is delivered to the Town
Council President before the end of the ten day period;
         (g)   A statement briefly indicating what action can be taken by the
Town Council President if the order is not complied with;
         (h)   A statement indicating the obligation created by I.C. 36-7-9-27
relating to notification of subsequent interest holders and the Town Council
President;
         (i)   The name, address, and telephone number of the Town Council
President; and
         (j)   A statement that the TEUBB may determine the property to be
abandoned as provided in I.C. 36-7-37.
      (4)   The order must allow sufficient time, or at least ten days, but not
more than 60 days, from the time when the notice of the order is given, to
accomplish the required action. If the order allows more than 30 days to
accomplish the action, the order may require that a substantial progress be
made in accomplishing the action within 30 days.
      (5)   The order expires two years from the day the notice of the order is
given, unless one or more of the following events occurs within that two year
period:
         (a)   A complaint requesting judicial review is filed under I.C. 36-7-
9-8;
         (b)   A contract for action required by the order is let at public bid
under I.C. 36-7-9-11; and/or
         (c)   A civil action is filed under I.C. 36-7-9-17.
      (6)   If the order contains a statement under subsection (3)(g) or (3)(h)
above, notice of the order shall be given to each person with a known or
recorded substantial property interest.
   (E)   Hearing authority. The Council for the Town of Elnora shall appoint a
three member board to be known as the Town of Elnora Unsafe Building Board. The
TEUBB shall be the hearing authority herein. The Town Council President shall
not be eligible to serve as a member of the TEUBB.
      (1)   Board appointments. The initial terms of the three members will be
staggered with one member serving one year, one member serving two years, and
one member serving three years. After the initial term, all appointments are
for three years or until a replacement is appointed. All appointments serve at
the pleasure of the Town of Elnora and the Town of Elnora Council. The TEUBB
shall meet in January of each year to organize (or as otherwise required
subsequent to the appointment of its members) and thereafter as needed based on
orders issued by the Town Council President.
      (2)   Hearings, penalties, and judicial review.
         (a)   At the conclusion of any hearing at which a continuance is not
granted, the TEUBB may make findings and take action to:
            1.   Affirm the order;
            2.   Rescind the order; or
            3.   Modify the order, but unless the person to whom the order was
issued, or counsel for that person, is present at the hearing, the TEUBB may
modify the order in only a manner that makes its terms less stringent. All
other terms and conditions of I.C. 36-7-97 apply hereto including the TEUBB's
ability to impose fines of up to $5,000 for willful failure to comply with the
Town Council President's order(s).
         (b)   Alternate penalties may apply pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-7.5 for
violations of the Town Council President's order(s) that are not subject to a
hearing.
         (c)   Judicial review of the TEUBB's order may be had pursuant to the
tenns of I.C. 36-7-9-8 by filing a complaint within ten days of the action of
the TEUBB. The Daviess Superior Court is the court of judicial review for
violation of this section.
   (F)   Emergency action. The Town Council President may take emergency action
if the Town Council President finds it necessary to take emergency action
concerning an unsafe premises in order to protect life, safety, or property. He
or she may take that action without issuing an order or giving notice. However,
this emergency action must be limited to removing any immediate danger. The
enforcing authority may require that persons vacate such premises immediately.
Costs of these actions shall be recoverable pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-9.
   (G)   Severability.
      (1)   Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or any other
portion of this section be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid for any reason, the remaining provision or provisions be given the
effect intended by the town in adopting this section. To this end, the
provisions of this section are severable.
      (2)   All sections of the Indiana Unsafe Building Law are incorporated
herein and notice is hereby given that even if not specifically referenced
herein, all conditions apply to the Town of Elnora Unsafe Building Law.
(Ord. 04-2024, passed 6-5-2024)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   State Building Code adopted by reference
   
151.02   State enforcement statutes adopted by reference
§ 151.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 22-13-2-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference the Indiana Building Code, contained in 675 I.A.C. 13-2.6-
1 et seq., including any future amendments.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt future building code amendments by reference, see I.C.
22-13-2-3
§ 151.02 STATE ENFORCEMENT STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted under I.C. 36-7-9-3, the town hereby
adopts by reference I.C. 36-7-9, pertaining to enforcement of building
standards.
   (B)   The enforcement authority responsible for the administration of the
statutes adopted under this section shall be the town executive, or such other
executive department as may be established or designated by ordinance.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST shall have
the same meaning as set forth in I.C. 36-7-9-2.
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
   
152.01   Statutory authority
   
152.02   Statement of purpose
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Duties of Administrator
   
152.05   Regulatory flood elevation
   
152.06   Improvement location permit
   
152.07   Preventing increased damages
   
152.08   Protecting buildings
   
152.09   Other development requirements
   
152.10   Variances
   
152.11   Disclaimer of liability
   
152.12   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The Indiana Legislature granted the power to local units of government (I.C.
36-7-4) to control land use within their jurisdictions in order to accomplish
the following.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 152.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to guide development in the flood
hazard areas in order to reduce the potential for loss of life and property,
reduce the potential for health and safety hazards, and to reduce the potential
for extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief.
   (B)   Under the authority granted to local units of government to control
land use within their jurisdiction, which includes taking into account the
effects of flooding, the Town Council hereby adopts the following floodplain
management regulations in order to accomplish the following:
      (1)   To prevent unwise development from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
      (2)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      (3)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      (4)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
      (5)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating flood-blighted areas; and
      (6)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for
structures and their contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the
national flood insurance program.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building valued at more than $1,000;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads, or similar project;
         (d)   Construction of flood control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; and
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing buildings and facilities such as painting; re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
buildings.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of this chapter.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FBFM. Flood boundary and floodway map.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FHBM. Flood hazard boundary map.
   FIRM. Flood insurance rate map.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE or FPG. The elevation of the regulatory flood plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the floodway fringe
districts.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a special flood hazard
area (SFHA). A LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations
and elevations.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the basement floor;
      (2)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the building;
      (3)   The top of the first floor or of buildings elevated on pilings or
constructed on a crawl space with permanent openings; or
      (4)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters,
by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet of enclosed
area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade;
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable for the parking of vehicles
and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of this chapter.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure which is
acceptable to and approved by the State Natural Resources Commission and the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood elevation at any
location is as defined in § 151.05. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the
term BASE FLOOD.
   SFHA or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Those lands within the jurisdiction of
the town that are subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of
the town are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map of
the town prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated August
19, 1986. The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Daviess County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town or that may be annexed
into the town are generally identified as such on the flood hazard boundary map
prepared for Daviess County by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
dated May 5, 1978.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not
include improvements of structures to correct existing violations of state or
local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any alteration of a
“historic structure”, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 94-8, passed 10-3-1994)
§ 152.04 DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall implement this chapter and hereafter be
referred to as the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator for the town is appointed to review all
development, but not limited to the following duties:
      (1)   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the town meet the requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (3)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
State Natural Resources Commission for all development projects subject to §
151.07, and maintain a record of such authorization (either copy of actual
permit or letter recommendation);
      (4)   Maintain a record of the “as built” elevation of the top of the
lowest floor (including basement) of all new and/or substantially improved
buildings constructed in the SFHA. Inspect before, during and after
construction;
      (5)   Maintain a record of the engineer’s certificate and the “as built”
floodproofed elevation of all buildings subject to § 151.08; and
      (6)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood data, SFHA maps, letters of map amendment (LOMA), letters of
map revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and letters of recommendation,
federal permit documents and “as built” elevation and floodproofing data for
all building constructed subject to this chapter.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 152.05 REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below.
   (B)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party
submitting the detailed engineering study needs to replace exiting data with
better data and submit it to the Department of Natural Resources for review and
approval.
      (1)   The regulatory flood elevation and floodway limits for the SFHAs of
the West Fork White River within Elnora as identified on the flood insurance
rate map of the town, dated August 19, 1986, shall be according to the best
data available as provided by the Department of Natural Resources.
      (2)   The regulatory flood elevation and floodway limits for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Daviess County that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town or that may be annexed into the town
as identified on the flood hazard boundary map of Daviess County, dated May 5,
1978 and prepared by FEMA, shall be according to the best data available as
provided by the Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   If the SFHA is delineated as “AH Zone” or “AO Zone”, the elevation
(or depth) will be delineated on the county flood insurance rate map. If the
SFHA is delineated as “Zone A” on the county flood insurance rate map, the
regulatory flood elevation and floodway limits shall be according to the best
data available as provided by the Department of Natural Resources.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 152.06 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by
state law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining an
improvement location permit from the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall not issue an improvement location
permit if the proposed development does not meet the requirements of this
chapter.
      (1)   The application for an improvement location permit shall be
accompanied by the following:
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades; and
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed development. Elevation should be in National Geodetic Vertical
Datum of 1929 (NGVD) or North American Vertical Datum (NAVD). In either case
the conversion formula should be included.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for an improvement location permit,
the Zoning Administrator shall determine if the site is located within an
identified floodway, floodway fringe or within the floodplain where the limits
of the floodway have not yet been determined.
         (a)   1.   If the site is in an identified floodway, the Zoning
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the Department of Natural
Resources and apply for a permit for construction in a floodway.
            2.   Under the provisions of I.C. 13-2-22, a permit from the
Natural Resources Commission is required prior to the issuance of a local
building permit for any excavation, deposit, construction or obstruction
activity located in the floodway. This includes land preparation activities
such as filling, grading, clearing and paving and the like undertaken before
the actual start of construction of the building.
            3.   No action shall be taken by the Zoning Administrator until a
permit has been issued by the Natural Resources Commission granting approval
for construction in the floodway. Once a permit has been issued by the Natural
Resources Commission, the Building Official may issue the local improvement
location permit, provided the provisions contained in §§ 151.07 and 151.08 have
been met. The improvement location permit cannot be less restrictive than the
permit issued by the Natural Resources Commission.
         (b)   If the site is located in an identified floodway fringe, then
the Zoning Administrator may issue the local improvement location permit
provided the provisions contained in §§ 151.07 and 151.08 have been met. The
key provision is that the top of the lowest floor of any new or substantially
improved structure shall be at or above the flood protection grade (FPG).
         (c)   1.   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits
of the floodway and floodway fringe have not yet been determined (shown as Zone
A on the flood insurance rate map), and the drainage area upstream of the site
is greater than one square mile, the Zoning Administrator shall require the
applicant to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and
specifications, to the Department of Natural Resources for review and comment.
            2.   No action shall be taken by the Zoning Administrator until
either a permit for construction in the floodway or a letter of recommendation
citing the 100-year flood elevation and the recommended flood protection grade
has been received from the Department of Natural Resources.
            3.   Once the Zoning Administrator has received the proper permit
or letter of recommendation approving the proposed development, an improvement
location permit may be issued provided the conditions of the improvement
location permit are not less restrictive than the conditions received from
natural resources and the provisions contained in §§ 151.07 and 151.08 have
been met.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 152.07 PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES.
   No development in the SFHA shall create a damaging or potentially damaging
increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health and safety.
   (A)   Within the floodway identified on the flood boundary and floodway map
or the flood insurance rate map, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in
combination with existing or future development, will cause any increase in the
elevation of the regulatory flood.
      (2)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
   (B)   Within all SFHAs identified as A Zones (no 100-year flood elevation
and/or floodway/floodway fringe delineation has been provided), the following
standard shall apply. The total cumulative effect of the proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
increase the regulatory flood elevation more than one-tenth of one foot and
will not increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
   (C)   Public health standards in all SFHAs.
      (1)   No development in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection grade, unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed storage tank or building
constructed according to the requirements of § 151.08.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on-site waste disposal
systems may be permitted providing all manholes or other above ground openings
are located above the FPG, or those which are located below the FPG are water-
tight.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 152.08 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of § 151.07, all buildings
to be located in the SFHA shall be protected from flood damage below the FPG.
   (A)   This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new building valued at more than
$1,000; or greater than 400 square feet, whichever is less;
      (2)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the market value of the building by more than 50% (excluding the value of the
land);
      (3)   Any subsequent alterations;
      (4)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged building that are
valued at or more than 50% of the market value of the building (excluding the
value of the land) before damage occurred;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage; and
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days.
   (B)   This building protection requirement may be met by one of the
following methods. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of
compliance with these building protection standards as required in § 151.04.
      (1)   A residential or nonresidential building may be constructed on a
permanent landfill in accordance with the following.
         (a)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with the Standard
Proctor Test method.
         (b)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
of the building before sloping below the FPG.
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
         (d)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
         (e)   The top of the lowest floor including basements, (see definition
of LOWEST FLOOR in § 151.03) shall be at or above the FPG.
      (2)   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following.
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on posts, piers,
columns, extended walls, or other types of similar foundation provided:
            1.   Walls of any enclosure below the elevated floor shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters, through providing a minimum of
two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) having a total area of one
square foot for every two square feet of enclosed area subject to flooding. The
bottom of all such opening shall be no higher than one foot above grade; and
            2.   Any enclosure below the elevated floor is used for storage of
vehicles and building access.
         (b)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as buoyancy, current, waves, ice and
floating debris.
         (c)   All areas below the FPG shall be constructed of materials
resistant to flood damage. The top of lowest floor (including basement) and all
electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and
utility meters shall be located at or above the FPG. Water and sewer pipes,
electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed
service facilities may be located below the FPG.
      (3)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or
substantially improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the
following anchoring requirements.
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all manufactured
homes to be placed on a site:
            1.   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
            2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
            3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
            4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which
a manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood.
         (b)   1.   This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be
placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that has
not been substantially damaged by a flood.
            2.   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest
floor of the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on the site for less than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions); or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” in division (B)
(3) above.
      (5)   A nonresidential building may be floodproofed to the FPG (in lieu
of elevating) if done in accordance with the following.
         (a)   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the
building has been designed so that below FPG, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the effects of the
regulatory flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts from debris or ice.
         (b)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 152.09 OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall review all proposed subdivisions
to determine whether the subdivision lies in a flood hazard area as defined
elsewhere by ordinance. If the Zoning Administrator finds the subdivision to be
so located, the Zoning Administrator shall forward plans and materials to the
State Department of Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall require appropriate changes and
modifications in order to assure that:
         (a)   It is consistent with the need to minimize flood damages;
         (b)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage;
         (c)   Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards; and
         (d)   Onsite waste disposal systems, if provided, will be so located
and designed to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during the
occurrence of the regulatory flood.
   (B)   Developers shall record the 100-year flood elevation on all
subdivision plats containing lands (identified elsewhere by this chapter)
within a flood hazard area prior to submitting the plats for approval by the
Plan Commission.
   (C)   All owners of manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within
the SFHA identified as Zone A on the community’s FHBM or FIRM shall develop an
evacuation plan for those lots located in the SFHA and file it with the local
Plan Commission and have it filed with and approved by the appropriate
community emergency management authorities.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 152.10 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may consider issuing a variance to the
terms and provisions of this chapter provided the applicant demonstrates that:
      (1)   There exists a good and sufficient cause for the requested
variance;
      (2)   The strict application of the terms of this chapter will constitute
an exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   The granting of the requested variance will not increase flood
heights, create additional threats to public safety, cause additional public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may issue a variance to the terms and
provisions of this chapter subject to the following standards and conditions.
      (1)   No variance or exception for a residential use within a floodway
subject to § 151.07(A) or (B) will require a permit from Natural Resources.
      (2)   Any variance or exception granted in a floodway subject to § 151.07
(A) or (B) will require a permit from Natural Resources.
      (3)   Variances or exceptions to the building protection standards of §
151.08 may be granted only when a new structure is to be located on a lot of
one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
      (4)   Variance or exception may be granted for the reconstruction or
restoration of any structure individually listed on the Register of Historic
Places or the Indiana State Survey of Historic Architectural, Archaeological
and Cultural Sites, Structures, Districts, and Objects.
      (5)   All variances shall give the minimum relief necessary and be such
that the maximum practical flood protection will be given to the proposed
construction.
      (6)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall issue a written notice to the
recipient of a variance or exception that the proposed construction will be
subject to increased risks to life and property and could require payment of
increased flood insurance premiums.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 152.11 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the community, Natural Resources or the state for any
flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 152.12 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Town
Council to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program,
including Ord. 86-3. However, this chapter does not repeal the original
resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does
this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or
deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants
or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall take precedence. In addition, the Town Council shall, assure
that all national flood insurance program regulations and laws (I.C. 13-2-22
and I.C. 13-2-22.5) are met.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain an improvement location permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance
shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All violations shall be
considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in accordance with
provisions of the zoning code for the town. All violations shall be punishable
by a fine not exceeding $100.
   (B)   The Town Council shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 94-8, passed 10-3-1994)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOUSING
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Permits
   
153.03   Permit fee
   
153.04   Manufactured home requirements
   
153.05   Recreational vehicles and travel trailers
   
153.06   Age
   
153.07   Existing mobile homes and manufactured housing
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, other than a mobile home as defined herein,
which is certified and labeled as a manufactured home under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401
to 5426, as amended; is transportable in one or more sections, which in the
traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in
length, or, when erected on site, is 720 or more square feet; and which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, including the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained therein.
Any attached addition, enclosed porch, deck, or patio shall be considered part
of the MANUFACTURED HOME and may be required to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure manufactured prior to June 15, 1976, with walls of
rigid un-collapsible construction and an overall length in excess of 45 feet,
transportable in one or more sections, built on a permanent chassis, and
designed to be used as a dwelling when connected to the required utilities,
including the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained herein. Any attached addition, enclosed porch, deck, or patio shall
be considered part of the mobile home and shall be required to meet all of the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-07, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 153.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   A manufactured home shall not be placed on any property in the town
without the owner thereof first obtaining written consent of two-thirds of the
adjacent owners of real estate and a permit from the Town Council.
   (B)   An existing mobile home may be updated or improved by means of
replacement without permission from surrounding neighbors if the improvement is
a manufactured home no less than ten years old at the time of the improvements.
The time lapse between removal and new unit installation cannot exceed 60 days.
Sixty days after removal, the property will revert to the status of requiring
written consent of two-thirds of the adjacent owners of real estate and a
permit from the Town Council.
   (C)   Upon the application requesting the permit and providing to the Town
Council written and signed consents from adjacent real estate owners as
hereinabove set forth, the Town Council may grant the permit if the proposed
location of the manufactured home would be harmonious and compatible with the
general character and conditions of the neighborhood.
(Ord. 2015-07, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 153.03 PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for the use and occupancy permit shall be $0.10 per square foot on
enclosure.
(Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 153.04 MANUFACTURED HOME REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Skirting required. All manufactured home installations shall have a
complete skirting system applied to the unit within 30 days of the manufactured
home being placed on the approval site.
   (B)   Skirting options. All skirting material shall consist of properly
treated all-weather materials which may include, but not be limited to, wood,
masonry, masonry-like stone, decorative lattice or commercially available metal
or plastic skirting. Any skirting or visible covering of either the insulation
or foundation wall, if used, shall be consistent in color and appearance with
masonry or stone, or consistent in color and appearance with the exterior
siding of the manufactured home.
   (C)   Utility connection. Any manufactured home shall be properly connected
to the necessary utilities, including sewer, water, natural gas, and
electricity, within 30 days of the manufactured home or mobile home being
placed on the approved site.
(Ord. 2015-07, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 153.05 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any individual(s), corporation, business, or other
entity to park or permit the parking of a recreational vehicle and/or a travel
trailer on any lot or tract of land within the town, whenever such recreational
vehicle or travel trailer is being used or occupied as a residence. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to a recreational vehicle or travel
trailer which is being occupied temporarily by a person or persons visiting the
town. Such recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall not be permitted to
connect into the water and sewer system of the town during the period of the
temporary occupancy except at real estate designed as modern campgrounds.
(Ord. 2015-07, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-19-2024) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 153.06 AGE.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued by the Town Council for any manufactured
home manufactured more than ten years from the date that a permit is sought for
its placement in the town.
   (B)   No mobile home defined in §
153.02 shall be permitted within town limits.
(Ord. 2015-07, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 153.07 EXISTING MOBILE HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOUSING.
   Existing mobile homes or manufactured housing that is presently occupied in
the town on the effective date of this chapter may remain in their current
locations. They cannot be moved to another location within the town. If moved,
a replacement manufactured housing unit must meet all specifications set forth
in this chapter. If any existing mobile homes or manufactured housing that is
presently occupied in the town is vacant or unoccupied for more than 60 days,
it shall be removed from the premises by the town and the cast be put back on
the owner, as to prevent potential fire, health and/or safety hazard and unless
the mobile home or manufactured home is posted for sale not exceeding more than
six months.
(Ord. 2015-07, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any individual(s), corporation, business, or other entity, including
those doing work for others, who violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a forfeiture of not less than a civil penalty of $2,500 for
each violation, plus the cost of prosecution. Each day a violation exists shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation of this chapter and as such
forfeitures shall apply accordingly. The Town Council may refer violations to a
town designated attorney who shall prosecute violations.
   (B)   If any mobile home or manufactured home is placed on any property in
the town without the required permit, the Town Council can have it moved at the
owner's and/or real estate owner's expense. The Town Council can seek
injunctive relief against anyone found to be in violation of this chapter. The
Town Council, Town Clerk-Treasurer, or code enforcement officer(s) may enter
the premises of any proposed or existing place where any mobile home is
located, in order to inspect for compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Recovery of costs associated with fines for this chapter shall be
turned into the courts for collection in small claims courts and not certified
to the County Auditor for collection as delinquent taxes if not paid within 30
days.
(Ord. 2015-07, passed 5-11-2015; Ord. 2016-3, passed 8-8-2016; Ord. 2024-01,
passed 3-19-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   VACATIONS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing a portion of the southwest quarter of the
77-1     1-2-1978    northeast quarter of Section 16, Township 5 North, Range 6
                     West in Elnora Township, containing four acres, more or
                     less.
7-95     9-12-1995   Annexing three tracts of land, containing 90.84 acres,
                     51.37 acres and 8.25 acres.
                    
 
TABLE II: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2013-07  11-11-2013  Vacating a portion of Day Street and Matilda Street to
                     improve the efficiency of railway transportation.
                    
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting Henry Gwaltney a franchise for the right,
                     privilege and authority to contract, extend, maintain,
--       -           repair, operate and remove a system for the manufacture,
                     transmission, distribution and sale of natural or
                     artificial gas, or a mixture thereof, for lighting,
                     heating, power and any other purpose.
                    
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                Code Section
1-1-1-5                     10.04
1-1-1-7                     10.12
1-1-1-8                     10.06
1-1-4-5                     10.05
1-1-5-1                     10.11
1-1-6-1                     10.08
1-1-7-1                     92.28
3-10-6                      32.02
3-10-7                      32.02
3-13-9-3                    32.06
4-22-2                      150.02
5-2-1-9                     32.21,
                            32.24
5-3-1                       31.072
5-11-1-9(b)                 32.04
5-11-10-1.6                 33.04
5-11-10-2                   33.03
5-14-1.5                    31.015
5-14-1.5-3.5                31.019
5-14-1.5-3.6                31.019
5-14-1.5-4(a)               31.018
5-14-1.5-4(b)               31.019
5-14-1.5-4(c)               31.019
5-14-1.5-6.1                31.016
5-14-3-3                    31.016
5-14-3-4(b)(12)             31.016
5-16-9                      72.04
6-1.1-17                    33.21,
                            33.22
6-1.1-17-3                  33.20
8-1.5-3-4(d)                50.01
8-14-1                      33.07
8-14-2                      33.07
8-22-2                      31.016
8-22-3                      31.016
8-23-4                      90.17
9-13-2-1                    90.01
9-13-2-6                    70.01
9-13-2-47                   70.01
9-13-2-49.3                 70.01
9-13-2-56                   70.01
9-13-2-73                   70.01
9-13-2-77                   70.01
9-13-2-84                   70.01
9-13-2-105(a)               70.01
9-13-2-105(b)               70.01
9-13-2-108                  70.01
9-13-2-118                  70.01
9-13-2-121(a)               70.01
9-13-2-155                  70.01
9-13-2-157                  70.01
9-13-2-178                  70.01
9-13-2-196(a)               70.01
9-14-5                      72.04
9-18-12                     90.02
9-18-18                     72.04
9-18-22                     72.04
9-18.1-14.5                 70.01
9-19                        70.01
9-21-1-3                    Ch. 71,
                            71.99
9-21-5-6                    Ch. 71
9-21-12-13                  70.01
9-21-20-1                   70.01
9-21-20-2                   70.01
9-21-20-3                   70.01
9-22-1-1                    90.02
9-22-1-2                    90.01
9-22-1-4                    90.03
9-22-1-5                    90.15
9-22-1-7                    90.16
9-22-1-8                    90.16,
                            90.18
9-22-1-11                   90.17
9-22-1-12                   90.17
9-22-1-13(a)                90.19
9-22-1-14                   90.19
9-22-1-15 through 9-22-1-18 90.23
9-22-1-19                   90.16
9-22-1-19(a)                90.19
9-22-1-21                   90.19
9-22-1-25                   90.20
9-22-1-27(b) through (d)    90.20
9-22-1-30                   90.20
9-22-1-31                   90.21
9-22-1-32                   90.22
13-2-22                     152.06,
                            152.12
13-2-22.5                   152.12
13-17-9                     94.04
13-22                       31.072
13-23                       31.072
13-24                       31.072
13-25-4                     31.072
13-25-5                     31.072
13-25-5-8.5(f)              31.072
14-16-1                     73.01
16-18-2-110                 70.01
16-22-8                     70.01
20-29-6-7                   31.016
22-9-1-4 et seq.            95.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.            95.01
22-9.5-2-2                  95.02
22-9.5-2-3                  95.02
22-9.5-2-4                  95.02
22-9.5-2-8                  95.02
22-9.5-2-9                  95.02
22-9.5-2-10                 95.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)              95.02
22-9.5-2-10(c)              95.02
22-9.5-2-11                 95.02
22-9.5-2-13                 95.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.            95.09
22-9.5-3                    95.03
22-9.5-4-8                  95.10
22-9.5-5                    95.02
22-9.5-5-1                  95.03
22-9.5-6                    95.02,
                            95.10
22-13-2-3                   151.01
25                          31.016
31-37-19-27                 131.03
31-67-4-15.7                131.03
33-35-1                     34.09
33-35-3-1                   32.03
33-35-3-2                   32.03
33-36-2                     34.09
33-36-2-1                   34.01,
                            34.02
33-36-2-2                   34.02
33-36-2-3                   34.03
33-36-2-4                   34.09
33-36-3                     34.03
33-36-3-1                   34.04
33-36-3-2                   34.05
33-36-3-3                   34.06
33-36-3-5                   34.06
33-36-3-6                   34.08
33-36-3-7                   34.09
33-37                       34.08
33-37-4                     34.08
33-37-7-6                   34.08
34-13-3-1 et seq.           35.15
34-13-3-12                  35.15
34-28-5                     131.05
34-30-26-5(a)               92.11,
                            92.34
35-47-5-13(a)               32.25
36-1-3-8(a)(10)             10.99
36-1-6                      131.05
36-1-7                      32.06
36-1-10                     31.016
36-1-11                     31.016
36-5-2-3(a)                 31.001
36-5-2-3(b)                 31.001
36-5-2-3(c)                 31.001
36-5-2-3(d)                 31.001
36-5-2-3(e)                 31.001
36-5-2-3(f)                 31.001
36-5-2-3(g)                 31.001
36-5-2-4.1                  31.072
36-5-2-4.2                  31.071
36-5-2-6                    31.002
36-5-2-7                    31.004
36-5-2-8                    31.021
36-5-2-9                    31.002
36-5-2-9.2                  31.020
36-5-2-9.4(a)               31.070
36-5-2-9.4(b)               31.071
36-5-2-9.6                  31.070
36-5-2-9.8                  31.071
36-5-2-10                   31.072
36-5-2-10.2                 31.073
36-5-3-3                    33.20
36-5-3-4                    33.21
36-5-3-5                    33.22
36-5-4-2                    33.01
36-5-4-3                    33.02
36-5-4-4                    33.03
36-5-4-6                    33.04
36-5-4-7                    33.05
36-5-4-13(b)                33.07
36-5-6-2                    32.03
36-5-6-3(a)                 32.01
36-5-6-3(b)                 32.02
36-5-6-3(c)                 32.02
36-5-6-3(d)                 32.02
36-5-6-3(e)                 32.02
36-5-6-3(f)                 32.02
36-5-6-4                    32.02
36-5-6-5                    32.03
36-5-6-5.1                  32.05
36-5-6-6                    32.03
36-5-6-7                    32.04
36-5-6-8                    32.04
36-5-6-9                    32.06
36-5-6.5                    32.03
36-5-7-2                    32.20
36-5-7-3                    32.21
36-5-7-4                    32.21
36-5-7-5                    32.23
36-5-7-6                    32.24
36-5-7-7                    32.25
36-7                        31.071,
                            31.072
36-7-4                      152.01
36-7-9                      150.02,
                            151.02
36-7-9 et seq.              150.02
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29  150.02
36-7-9-2                    151.02
36-7-9-3                    151.02
36-7-9-4                    92.04,
                            150.02
36-7-9-5                    92.04
36-7-9-7.5                  150.02
36-7-9-8                    92.04,
                            150.02
36-7-9-9                    92.05,
                            150.02
36-7-9-11                   150.02
36-7-9-16                   92.04
36-7-9-17                   150.02
36-7-9-25                   92.05
36-7-9-27                   150.02
36-7-37                     150.02
36-7-97                     150.02
36-8                        32.21,
                            32.24
36-9-7-25                   150.02
36-9-23-3.2                 50.18
36-9-23-32                  50.17
36-9-23-33                  50.18
36-9-25-11.2                50.18
36-9-30-3                   90.19
                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2011-8   9-12-2011   35.01
2023-01  6-20-2023   91.02
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      - -         TSO III
93-4     - -         33.08
94-2     - -         33.06
95-2     - -         33.06
2003-93  - -         36.01
107      11-3-1954   112.01,
                     112.02
–      10-3-1955   71.04,
                     71.99
–      10-3-1955   71.05,
                     71.99
                     51.01—
76-3     4-14-1976   51.18,
                     51.99
77-1     1-2-1978    TSO I
86-4     12-1-1986   51.30—
                     51.37
                     111.01—
93-3     2-1-1993    111.04,
                     111.99
93-2     6-7-1993    33.06
                     152.01—
94-7     8-1-1994    152.12,
                     152.99
94-8     10-3-1994   152.03,
                     152.99
7-95     9-12-1995   TSO I
98-1     1-3-1998    50.15—
                     50.19
                     91.01—
                     91.03,
2000-2   4-6-2000    91.15—
                     91.20,
                     91.99
2003-4   12-4-2004   50.16
                     73.15,
04-09    8-10-2009   73.16,
                     73.99
2010-4   3-8-2010    50.16
2013-02  3-11-2013   73.01
                     95.01—
2013-06  3-11-2013   95.10,
                     95.99
2013-05  3-29-2013   50.15
                     94.01—
2013-06  10-14-2013  94.06,
                     94.99
2013-07  11-11-2013  TSO II
                     92.25—
2015-04  5-11-2015   92.34,
                     92.99
                     92.01—
2015-05  5-11-2015   92.12,
                     92.99
                     90.01—
                     90.03,
2015-06  5-11-2015   90.15—
                     90.29,
                     90.99
                     153.01,
                     153.02,
2015-07  5-11-2015   153.04—
                     153.07,
                     153.99
                     131.01—
2016-01  2-8-2016    131.06,
                     131.99
                     90.99,
                     91.99,
                     92.09,
2016-3   8-8-2016    92.32,
                     94.99,
                     95.99,
                     153.99
2016-02  10-10-2016  50.20
2016-4   12-20-2016  35.30
2019-02  3-11-2019   50.15—
                     50.19
                     150.01,
2024-01  3-19-2024   153.01—
                     153.07,
                     153.99
2024-02  5-28-2024   90.01
2024-03  5-28-2024   91.02
04-2024  6-5-2024    150.02
                    
 
 
