FARMLAND, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 2022-04, passed 10-4-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to code or other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   This code shall be known as the “Town of Farmland, Indiana, Basic Code
of Ordinances,” and it shall be sufficient to refer to said code as the “Town
of Farmland, Indiana, Code of Ordinances” in any prosecution for the violation
of any provision thereof or in any proceeding as law or amending, correcting or
repealing all or any part or portion thereof as an addition to, amendment to,
correction or repeal of the “Town of Farmland, Indiana, Code of Ordinances.”
Further reference may be had to the titles, chapters, subchapters, sections and
divisions of the “Town of Farmland, Indiana, Code of Ordinances,” and such
references shall apply to that numbered title, chapter, subchapter, section or
division as it appears in the code.
   (B)   Title, chapter, subchapter, section and division headings contained
herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the
scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any title, chapter, subchapter,
section or division thereof.
(Ord. 85-3, passed - -)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to the
various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as originally
enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by the
compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official publication,
to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings are for
organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application or
construction of the law they precede. Each note following a section of this
code is for reference purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural and
words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Farmland.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Randolph County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur unless some other section is designated.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      TOWNSHIP. The township or townships in which the town is located.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended, or
its application to any person or circumstances, is held invalid, the invalidity
does not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid
section or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter or section are severable, as provided in division (B)
above, does not affect the operation of division (B) with respect to that
chapter, subchapter or section.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO CODE OR OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a reference is made to this code as the “Town of Farmland,
Indiana, Code of Ordinances” or to any portion thereof, or to any ordinance of
the town, the reference shall apply to all amendments, corrections and
additions heretofore, now or hereafter made.
   (B)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Ord. 85-3, passed - -)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section unless the repealing section
so expressly provides. The section shall be treated as still remaining in force
for the purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the
enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code shall not be affected by
the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section containing the desired amendment substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
         (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from a previous code of
ordinances of the city published and subsequently amended, the previous code
section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN OFFICIALS; PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
31.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND THE LIKE
      
32.   FINANCES AND REVENUE
      
33.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 30: TOWN OFFICIALS; PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
Town Officials
   
30.01   Clerk-Treasurer; powers and duties
   
30.02   Town Council elections
   
30.03   Legislative body elections
   
30.04   Deputy Marshals
   
30.05   Blanket bonds
Personnel Policies
   
30.20   Public Employees’ Retirement Fund
   
30.21   Social Security
   
30.22   Drug-Free Workplace Act adopted
   
30.23   Reimbursement for expenditures while on town business
TOWN OFFICIALS
§ 30.01 CLERK-TREASURER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Bond. The amount of the individual surety bond of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer should equal $30,000 to cover the faithful performance of duties. It
shall be paid for out of the town’s General Fund.
   (B)   INDOT execution authority. The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby
authorized and confirmed to have the authority to execute any INDOT agreements
and all other documents related thereto, and all documents related to any INDOT
grant programs, for and on behalf of and to bind the town. The Town Council
hereby ratifies all prior agreements and associated documents executed by the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town prior to the effective date of this division (B).
   (C)   Additional duties.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep and maintain an accurate ledger
record of all water deposit accounts.
      (2)   At the end of every quarter, he or she shall prepare and mail to
consumers statements of their water bills as shown by the meter readings
submitted by the Water Department Superintendent.
      (3)   He or she shall be responsible for all funds turned over and
delivered to him or her by the Water Department Superintendent, and he or she
shall accordingly issue receipts to said Superintendent for all funds collected
and received in payment of water bills by the consumers.
      (4)   The ledger records of said Water Department shall be open to
inspection by the Town Council, and he or she shall report all delinquent
accounts at the regular monthly meeting of said Council.
(Ord. 1942-1, passed - -; Ord. 1983-12, passed 12-28-1983; Res. 2021-09, passed
11-17-2021)
§ 30.02 TOWN COUNCIL ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-5-2-4.1(g), election districts for the town were
abolished.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be three members elected to the Town Council.
      (2)   Said Town Council members shall be elected at large.
   (C)   (1)   Each voter may vote in every Council race, regardless of where
the voter resides within the boundaries of the town.
      (2)   Candidates may reside anywhere in town.
(Ord. 1992-04, passed 11-2-1992)
§ 30.03 LEGISLATIVE BODY ELECTIONS.
   (A)   The town’s legislative body districts were abolished within the town.
   (B)   All members of the town’s legislative body shall be elected in an at-
large election in lieu of being elected by legislative districts.
(Ord. 2012-01, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 30.04 DEPUTY MARSHALS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal may appoint, with the approval of the Town Council,
deputy marshals as needed to effectively execute the orders of this Council and
enforce the ordinances of the town, and such Deputies as appointed shall
possess the powers of and be subject to the liabilities to the same extent as
the Town Marshal. The Town Marshal may appoint, with the approval of the Town
Council, not more than two full-time Deputy Marshals and not more than three
part-time Deputy Marshals.
   (B)   The Deputy Marshals shall receive their assignment of duties directly
from the Town Council, and the duties may be changed from time to time as the
situation warrants. The duties to be established for the Deputy Marshals shall
be established by resolution of the Council. The Council reserves the right to
regulate the amount of bond, compensation and term of service of any such
Deputy so appointed, and such amount of bond, compensation and term of service
shall be established by resolution of the Council, and the resolution shall be
considered as the contract between the parties.
(Ord. 1964-4, passed 10-6-1964; Ord. 1982-1, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 30.05 BLANKET BONDS.
   (A)   The individual bonds for the employees of the town are fixed in the
amounts as follows:
      (1)   Utility Clerk: $10,000; and
      (2)   Clerk-Treasurer: $30,000.
   (B)   Further, a position bond of $25,000 is hereby authorized to cover the
faithful performance of the Marshal, Deputy Marshal and Board members.
(Ord. 1989-10, passed 9-5-1989)
PERSONNEL POLICIES
§ 30.20 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The town elected to become a participant in the Public Employees’
Retirement Fund, as established by Acts of 1945, Chapter 340 and all acts
amendatory and supplemental thereto.
   (B)   The town agrees to make the required contributions under the Public
Employees’ Retirement Act, which is the Acts of 1945, Chapter 340, and all acts
amendatory thereof and supplemental thereto, including specifically the Acts of
1955, Chapter 329, commonly designated as the state’s Public Employees’ Social
Security Integration and Supplemental Retirement Benefits Act.
   (C)   The following are declared to be covered by the Fund: Town Marshal,
Street Commissioner, Assistant and Water Superintendent.
   (D)   It is hereby declared that none of the classifications or positions
specified in division (C) above are compensated on a fee basis or of an
emergency nature, or in a part-time category.
   (E)   The active participating membership of the town began on January 1,
1967.
(Res. -, passed 12-27-1966)
§ 30.21 SOCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Action having been taken by the governing body of the town on May 13,
1957, Social Security coverage was elected for all positions except: all
services of an emergency nature, part-time positions, positions the
compensation for which is on a fee basis, elected legislative officials,
elected executive officials and elected judicial officials.
   (B)   The governing body elected additional coverage under the Old-Age and
Survivors’ Insurance Program for the previously excluded position “elected
executive officials.”
(Res. 1984-5, passed 3-5-1984)
Editor’s note:
   For more information on Social Security coverage in relation to division (A)
above, see meeting minutes dated May 13, 1957.
§ 30.22 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE ACT ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Drug-Free Workplace Act Audit Program, State Board of Accounts, is
incorporated herein in all respects as if set out in full and is hereby
approved and adopted in all respects by this section.
   (B)   The terms and provisions of this section do supplement the personnel
policy previously adopted by the town, as applicable.
(Ord. 95-07, passed 2-5-1996)
§ 30.23 REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENDITURES WHILE ON TOWN BUSINESS.
   (A)   Milage.
      (1)   A town employee shall be reimbursed for mileage driven in his or
her own personal vehicle on business related to the town at the rate authorized
for employees using the federal rate in each given year.
      (2)   Each employee shall submit claims for mileage reimbursement to the
Clerk -Treasurer with appropriate verification.
      (3)   All mileage reimbursement claims shall be submitted to the Town
Council for approval at the discretion of the Town Council.
   (B)   Lodging. The town shall reimburse employees of the town at a special
block rate for conference, or the cheapest rate possible, without further
approval of the Town Council, for lodging of a town employee while the employee
is required to stay away from home as a result of town business. If an employee
is required to expend funds for lodging in excess of $100 per night, the
employee must receive prior approval from the Town Council.
   (C)   Meals. The town shall reimburse employees of the town up to $59 a day
for meals purchased by the town employee while on town business. Itemized
receipts for purchased meals are required.
   (D)   Claims. An employee of the town making a claim under division (B) or
(C) above shall promptly submit said claim to the Clerk-Treasurer, along with
the appropriate receipts, before said claim will be reimbursed by the town.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 8-7-2000; Ord. 2007-09, passed 12-26-2007)
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND THE LIKE
Section
Police Department
   
31.001   Traffic accident reports
   
31.002   Motor vehicle inspections
   
31.003   Vehicle identification number inspection fee
Police Reserves
   
31.015   Membership; qualifications; terms of service
   
31.016   Duties, rights and privileges
   
31.017   Training, probationary period and appointment
   
31.018   Coverage and expenses; assigned items
   
31.019   Clothing allowance
   
31.020   Police Reserves financial accounts
   
31.021   Release from liabilities and damages
Parks and Recreation Board
   
31.035   Department created
   
31.036   Parks and Recreation Board composition
   
31.037   Membership; appointment and terms
   
31.038   President, Vice President and Secretary
   
31.039   Powers and duties
   
31.040   Budget; acceptance of funds
Economic Development Commission
   
31.055   Department and Commission created
   
31.056   Membership; appointment and term
   
31.057   Compensation
   
31.058   Powers and duties; meetings
   
31.059   Disclosure of interest
   
31.060   Requests for Commission revenue bonds
Area Plan Commission
   
31.075   Participation in County Area Planning Department; provisions adopted
   
31.076   Area Plan Commission membership
Micro-Enterprise Loan Board
   
31.090   Collection of grant funds
   
31.091   Disbursement of grant funds
   
31.092   Collection of payments
   
31.093   Administration costs
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.001 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The Police Department of the town shall, pursuant to I.C. 9-26-9-3, supply
information concerning incident and accident investigation and reports to
persons entitled thereto, furnishing a copy of the incident and/or accident
reports, and the charge for providing a copy made by means of a duplicating
machine shall be $5 for each report so furnished. Said fee as provided in this
section shall be deposited in a separate account, to be known as the “Accident
Report Account,” and shall be expended at the discretion of the chief
administrative officer of the Police Department for any department purpose
reasonably related to the keeping of accident reports and records or the
prevention of highway and street accidents.
(Ord. 1982-3, passed 3-1-1982; Ord. 2002-05, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 31.002 MOTOR VEHICLE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Police Department of the town shall, pursuant to state statute,
supply a motor vehicle inspection upon the application form prepared by the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles and verify facts on said application. The town,
pursuant to I.C. 9-17-2-12(e), shall charge a fee of $5 for inspection of said
vehicles.
   (B)   Said fee shall be kept in a separate fund, titled “Special Vehicle
Inspection Fund,” and those funds will be used for the purpose of law
enforcement. Said account as established shall comply with any rules and
regulations for proper accounting and expenditure of funds as established by
the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 1992-01, passed 5-4-1992)
§ 31.003 VEHICLE IDENTIFICATION NUMBER INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   The Police Department of the town shall collect a fee of $5 for
performing any vehicle identification number inspection.
   (B)   All funds collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited into
the Local Law Continuing Education Fund and utilized accordingly.
(Ord. 2007-05, passed 10-1-2007)
POLICE RESERVES
§ 31.015 MEMBERSHIP; QUALIFICATIONS; TERMS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Town Police Reserves, the membership of
which shall not consist of more than ten persons at any one time. All police
reserves shall serve at the pleasure of the Town Marshal.
   (B)   Each police reserve shall be in adequate physical condition and shall
be able to comply with the physical requirement standards set forth by this
Department as well as the Police Academy standards. Each police reserve shall
be of good character and not less than 21 years of age. Further, all police
reserves shall satisfy all state requirements for service as a police reserve.
All police reserves must be residents of the town.
   (C)   Appointments to the Police Reserves shall be made by the Town Marshal,
by and with the approval, advice and consent of the Town Council. Appointment
of each police reserve shall be recorded in the minutes of the Town Council.
Each and every police reserve must be approved by the Town Council.
   (D)   Any police reserve may be discharged at any time with or without just
cause, and without hearing, by the Town Marshal, with the approval, advice and
consent of the Town Council. Written notice of discharge shall be provided to
any discharged police reserve by the Town Marshal, by and with the advice and
consent of the Town Council. Termination of the appointment of a police
reserve, either by resignation or discharge or otherwise, shall be recorded in
the minutes of the Town Council. The Town Marshal may suspend a police reserve
from duties with or without cause, and without hearing, at any time.
   (E)   Regular members of the Town Police Department shall not be eligible
for membership in the Police Reserves.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 97-15, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 2000-01, passed
3-6-2000; Ord. 2006-11, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 31.016 DUTIES, RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   The police reserve(s) shall function under the Town Marshal, or in his
or her absence, the senior officer on duty, pursuant to the requirements of all
applicable state law and other applicable law, including, but not limited to,
the provisions of I.C. 36-1-3 et seq. and also I.C. 36-8-3-20. Before becoming
a police reserve, each member shall take an oath provided by the statutes of
the state, or pursuant to law, and shall be issued a card signed by the Town
Marshal, which card shall be retained in the possession of the police reserve
at all times.
   (B)   Police reserves shall have all powers and authority, and shall be
subject to all duties, of regular police officers, except as allowed by law and
as limited by the rules of their Department, and provided, however, that
membership in the Police Reserves shall not constitute membership in the
regular Police Department of the town, nor shall any member of the Police
Reserves be entitled to any rights or privileges of compensation, pension or
other rights or privileges of members of the regular Police Department.
Additionally, police reserves shall not be entitled to any monetary
compensation, shall not be entitled to receive compensation for time lost from
other employment because of court appearances, shall not be insured for life,
accident or sickness coverage, and further, shall not be eligible to
participate in any pension program provided for regular members of the
Department.
   (C)   The Town Marshal, with the approval of the Town Council, is hereby
authorized to formulate and adopt written rules to govern the authority,
operating procedure, duties and functions of the Police Reserves.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 31.017 TRAINING, PROBATIONARY PERIOD AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   No police reserve shall be appointed until the applicant for the
Police Reserves has completed the training and probationary period specified by
the rules of the Department, and further, no appointment may be made of a
police reserve until the provisions of I.C. 36-8-3 et seq., including, but not
limited to, the provisions of I.C. 36-8-3-20 have been fully satisfied.
   (B)   The Town Marshal is hereby authorized to formulate and adopt written
rules to govern the training, probation and other requirements of a Police
Reserves applicant, and any such written rules must first be approved by the
Town Council. Such rules, among other requirements, shall provide for the
applicant passing a written examination based upon the study of training
manuals and shall provide for the Police Reserves applicant obtaining on-the-
job training with regular members of the police force, and further, shall be
subject to the requirements of I.C. 36-8-3-20, and further, shall be subject to
the requirements of any and all other applicable law.
   (C)   No Police Reserves applicant shall be eligible for appointment until
the applicant shall have completed a minimum of two months of probation with
the minimum of 50 hours of on-the-job training, and shall further meet the
requirements of state law, as is applicable, before an applicant is eligible
for appointment to the Police Reserves. During the probationary period, the
Police Reserves applicant shall only have such power, authority and duties as
are assigned by the Town Marshal and as provided by applicable law.
   (D)   A Police Reserves applicant may not make an arrest, may not conduct a
search or seizure of person or property and may not carry a firearm unless the
Police Reserves applicant or Police Reserves officer successfully completes a
pre-basic course under I.C. 5-2-1-9(f) and pursuant to the provisions of I.C.
36-8-3-20.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 31.018 COVERAGE AND EXPENSES; ASSIGNED ITEMS.
   (A)   A police reserve is not covered by medical treatment, burial expense
and workers’ compensation with the town, pursuant to state law. Any Police
Reserves applicant shall be responsible for payment, at his or her own expense,
for any and all costs and expenses associated with the completion of a pre-
basic course as required by I.C. 36-8-3-20 and I.C. 5-2-1-9(f) and as provided
by all other applicable law. All police reserves shall wear the same uniform as
regular members of the Police Department. The police reserves shall furnish
their own uniforms, subject to §
31.019(A), and other necessary equipment without reimbursement from the town.
   (B)   No individual shall wear a uniform after termination as a police
reserve or while not being on duty with the town as a police reserve. All items
assigned by the town to a police reserve, if applicable, shall remain the sole
property of the town, and if misused or neglected or otherwise damaged, the
town shall reserve the right to collect replacement of such items, or any other
proper damages, from the police reserve.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 31.019 CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Each reserve police officer shall be reimbursed in the amount of $25
per shift which the reserve officer is on duty. A shift is a minimum of six
hours.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall pay each reserve police officer for shifts
worked on a quarterly basis.
   (C)   The reserve police officer is not an employee of the town, and the
clothing allowance provided to each reserve police officer is not a wage or a
salary earned by the reserve police officer.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 31.020 POLICE RESERVES FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS.
   Any financial accounts, if applicable, of the Police Reserves shall be
subject to audit at any time designated by the Town Marshal or by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 6-6-1994)
§ 31.021 RELEASE FROM LIABILITIES AND DAMAGES.
   Each member of the Police Reserves shall, prior to taking an oath of office,
execute and deliver to the Town Clerk-Treasurer an instrument and general
release of any and all liabilities and damages, to be approved by the Town
Council, releasing the town and the Town Marshal, and their Council members,
employees, agents, representatives, heirs, estates and other persons on their
behalf, from any and all liabilities and damages of any kind or type whatsoever
for any type of injury, damage, liability or debt incurred in the line of duty
as a member of the Police Reserves. Any such general release shall bind the
Police Reserve member and his or her family members, estates, heirs,
representatives or other successors in interest.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 6-6-1994)
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 31.035 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-10-3, there is hereby created a municipal
Department of Parks and Recreation.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-23-1984)
§ 31.036 PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD COMPOSITION.
   A Parks and Recreation Board shall be created, composed of four members
appointed by the Town President on the basis of their interest in and knowledge
of parks and recreation. Not more than two members shall be of the same
political party.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-23-1984)
§ 31.037 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   (A)   Upon establishment of the Board, the terms of the members initially
appointed shall be:
      (1)   One member for a term of one year;
      (2)   One member for a term of two years;
      (3)   One member for a term of three years; and
      (4)   One member for a term of four years.
   (B)   (1)   As a term expires, each new appointment shall be made by the
Town President for a term of four years. All terms expire on the first Monday
of January, but a member shall continue in office until his or her successor is
appointed.
      (2)   If an appointment for a new term is not made by the Town President
by the first Monday in April, the incumbent shall serve another term. If a
vacancy occurs, the Town President shall appoint a new member for the remainder
of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-23-1984)
§ 31.038 PRESIDENT, VICE PRESIDENT AND SECRETARY.
   At its first regular meeting in each year, the Board shall elect a president
and vice president. The Vice President shall have authority to act as the
president of the Board during the absence or disability of the President. The
Board may select a secretary either from within or without its own membership.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-23-1984)
§ 31.039 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the power to perform all acts necessary to acquire and
develop sites and facilities and to conduct such programs as are generally
understood to be park and recreation functions. In addition, the Board shall
have all the powers and duties list in I.C. 36-10-3.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-23-1984)
§ 31.040 BUDGET; ACCEPTANCE OF FUNDS.
   The Board shall prepare and submit an annual budget in the same manner as
other departments of town government, as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts. The Board may accept gifts, donations and subsidies for park and
recreation purposes.
(Ord. 84-3, passed 4-23-1984)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 31.055 DEPARTMENT AND COMMISSION CREATED.
   It is hereby created as a department in the town a department of
development, which department shall be known as the Town Department of
Development, which Department shall be controlled by the commission known as
the Town Economic Development Commission.
(Ord. 1976-3, passed 9-7-1976)
§ 31.056 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND TERM.
   (A)   The Town Economic Development Commission shall consist of three
members, to be appointed as follows:
      (1)   One member shall be appointed by the President of the Town Council
for a term expiring February 1, 1980;
      (2)   One member shall be appointed by the Town Council for a term to
expire February 1, 1979; and
      (3)   One member shall be appointed by the County Council for a term to
expire on February 1, 1978.
   (B)   Upon completion of the original terms of office, subsequent appointees
shall serve terms of four years, with each term to expire on February 1 of the
appropriate years.
   (C)   Any vacancies occurring on the Commission shall be filled by
appointment by the authority having made the appointment in which the vacancy
occurs, and such appointment shall be made for the completion of any unexpired
term.
   (D)   The appointing authorities shall make their appointments in the manner
prescribed by law and shall furnish certificates of appointment for each person
appointed, and such appointees shall qualify as required by law.
(Ord. 1976-3, passed 9-7-1976)
§ 31.057 COMPENSATION.
   Commissioners shall serve without compensation, but the Town Council may
provide in the Development Department budget for reimbursement of travel,
telephone and other expenses incurred by the Commissioners in the performance
of their duties.
(Ord. 1976-3, passed 9-7-1976)
§ 31.058 POWERS AND DUTIES; MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall meet within 30 days after its creation and shall at
that first meeting elect a president, vice president and secretary, and shall
immediately undertake the duties imposed upon such Commissioners by law. The
Commission shall hold reorganization meetings during February of each year, and
the Commission and its members shall have all the powers and duties imposed by
statute and this subchapter and by amendments to either such statute or
subchapter. The Commission may adopt such bylaws and rules as are not
prohibited by law and as are found desirable to facilitate the conduct of its
business and the accomplishment of its purpose.
(Ord. 1976-3, passed 9-7-1976)
§ 31.059 DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Any Commissioner having a financial interest in, or having been
employed by, any firm or corporation contracting or negotiating with the
Commission shall disclose his or her interest to the Commission, and such
disclosures shall be made a part of the records of the Commission.
   (B)   Any contract or agreement in which a Commissioner has a financial
interest, or any contract or agreement with any firm or corporation in which a
Commissioner has direct financial interest, shall be void from its inception
unless the nature of that financial interest has been made a part of the
records of the Commission. No Commissioner shall vote on any matter in which he
or she has a financial interest.
(Ord. 1976-3, passed 9-7-1976)
§ 31.060 REQUESTS FOR COMMISSION REVENUE BONDS.
   Any person, firm or corporation whose request for the issuance of Economic
Development Commission revenue bonds has been successful and for whom such
bonds have been issued shall pay a fee of $100, payable from bond proceeds, to
the town. Such fee shall be in addition to the reimbursement of any costs
incurred by the town in the issuance of bonds.
(Ord. 1976-3, passed 9-7-1976)
AREA PLAN COMMISSION
§ 31.075 PARTICIPATION IN COUNTY AREA PLANNING DEPARTMENT; PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   It is the declared intention of the Town Council to avail itself of
the provisions of Chapter 138, Acts of 1957, as amended, State General
Assembly, and to participate in the operation of the Area Planning Department
after its establishment pursuant to § 6 of said Act.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby adopts the provisions of Chapter 138, Acts of
1957, as amended, State General Assembly.
(Ord. 1969-1, passed 5-14-1969)
§ 31.076 AREA PLAN COMMISSION MEMBERSHIP.
   The membership of the Area Plan Commission of the county shall be as set
forth in §§ 8 through 13 and in § 25 of said Act.
(Ord. 1969-1, passed 5-14-1969)
MICRO-ENTERPRISE BOARD
§ 31.090 COLLECTION OF GRANT FUNDS.
   The town, through the Clerk-Treasurer and or the Micro-Enterprise Board,
shall have the authority to accept the funds granted herein and deposit such
into the town account specified for the Micro- Enterprise Loan Fund.
(Ord. 1997-02, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 31.091 DISBURSEMENT OF GRANT FUNDS.
   A Micro-Enterprise Board has been established to govern the loan
applications and award the loans to complying businesses. The town, through the
Clerk-Treasurer and/or the Micro-Enterprise Board, shall be authorized to
disburse said funds to the applicable businesses as directed pursuant to the
Micro-Loan Agreement and promissory note signed by each recipient.
(Ord. 1997-02, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 31.092 COLLECTION OF PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The loan recipients shall repay said loan as directed in the
individual Micro-Loan Agreements and promissory notes directly to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to deposit said payments in
to the Micro-Enterprise Loan Fund and to keep a record of said payments and
disbursements.
(Ord. 1997-02, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 31.093 ADMINISTRATION COSTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to CDBG Grant No. MP-89-003, the Indiana Department of
Commerce has authorized certain funds of said above-mentioned grant to be used
to pay for the administration Micro-Enterprise Loan Program.
   (B)   The town, through the Clerk-Treasurer and/or the Micro-Enterprise
Board, is hereby authorized to use said funds for the administration costs
incurred for the Micro-Enterprise Loan Program upon the approval of the Micro-
Enterprise Board and/or the Town Council.
(Ord. 1997-02, passed 3-3-1997)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCES AND REVENUE
Section
   
32.01   Bank depository designated
   
32.02   Credit and debit card payments
   
32.03   Electronic funds transfers and online banking
   
32.04   Fee for drafts, checks not honored or paid
   
32.05   Petty cash fund
   
32.06   Certain claims payable without prior approval
§ 32.01 BANK DEPOSITORY DESIGNATED.
   The designated bank depository for the town shall be Old National Bank,
located at 100 South Meridian, Winchester, Indiana.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 4-6-1998)
§ 32.02 CREDIT AND DEBIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The credit card company doing business as PayGOV.US, LLC, will charge
the cardholders a 3% convenience fee for all point of sale transactions. A
minimum of $3 for all point of sale transactions under $100 will apply.
   (B)   The credit card company will charge the cardholders a 3.95%
convenience fee for all internet transactions. A minimum of fee of $3.95 for
all internet transactions will apply.
   (C)   The credit card company will charge the cardholders a 4.95%
convenience fee for operator transactions. A minimum fee of $4.95 for operator
transactions under $100 will apply.
   (D)   Customers shall be informed of this surcharge at the time they wish to
use their credit or debit card for payment.
(Res. 2014-12, passed 11-3-2014)
§ 32.03 ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFERS AND ONLINE BANKING.
   (A)   This section, adopted in compliance with I.C. 5-13-5-5, authorizes the
Town Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designated agent, to transact business with
financial institutions, conduct financial transactions/contributions to the
Public Retirement Fund, and conduct ACH and EFT transactions on behalf of the
town while performing his or her town duties.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her authorized agent, is hereby
authorized to make certain payments via automated clearing house (ACH)
transactions. Authorized payments include the payment of payroll obligations
and deductions, bond payments and contributions to the Public Retirement Fund
and the payment of monthly bills and subscriptions that are in the best
interests of the town. All funds received by ACH transactions are hereby
authorized.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her authorized agent, is hereby
authorized to make certain payments or funds transfers via electronic funds
transfers (EFT) for the purpose of transferring funds to the Accounts Payable
Checking Account from the general, electric, water, sewer and trash accounts
and in the process of paying claims/invoices that are in the best interests of
the town.
   (D)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her authorized agent, is hereby
authorized to reverse, cancel, or stop-payment any ACH transaction, EFT or
other payment, receipt or electronic transfer made in error or made in
violation of federal, state or local law.
      (2)   Further, the Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her authorized agent, is
hereby authorized to make any ACH transaction, EFT or other payment, receipt,
refund or electronic transfer to making correcting entries/transfers for any
ACH transaction, EFT, or other payment, receipt, or electronic transfer
mistakenly made in good-faith error.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her authorized agent, shall maintain
sufficient documentation of ACH, EFT and all other online or internet-based
financial transactions, payments, receipts and transfers for purposes of
audits, in accordance with applicable federal, state and local law.
   (F)   The Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her authorized agent, shall maintain,
apply and follow the existing internal controls provisions that are in place
with regard to the Clerk-Treasurer and his or her agents in the administration
of their financial duties for the town.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 3-1-2021; Ord. 2022-03, passed 8-2-2021)
§ 32.04 FEE FOR DRAFTS, CHECKS NOT HONORED OR PAID.
   (A)   Any individual, firm, corporation or other entity which issues or
delivers a check or draft to the town, and said check or draft is not honored
or paid upon presentment to the appropriate financial institution, shall be
responsible to pay a fee of $26 to the town in addition to the amount of the
check or draft.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to collect said
fee imposed by division (A) above. Said funds collected shall be deposited into
the Water and Wastewater Utility Fund.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 5-21-2001)
§ 32.05 PETTY CASH FUND.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to maintain a petty cash fund in the
office of the Clerk- Treasurer in an amount not to exceed $200.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is authorized to withdraw funds from the General
Fund in order to fund and maintain the Petty Cash Fund.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer or an authorized agent is authorized to utilize
the Petty Cash Fund to issue correct change for cash exchanges or for other
purposes expressly authorized by the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall maintain a written ledger containing an
accounting of all cash distributed from the Petty Cash Fund, which shall
include the following information:
      (1)   Date;
      (2)   Amount;
      (3)   Purpose of distribution;
      (4)   Cash issued to; and
      (5)   Person authorizing distribution.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall review the cash distributions and shall
reconcile the accounting of the Petty Cash Fund on a periodic basis.
(Res. 2017-08, passed 11-6-2017)
§ 32.06 CERTAIN CLAIMS PAYABLE WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   The following claims may be paid by the Clerk-Treasurer without prior
approval of the Town Council, pursuant to I.C. 36-5-4-12, to wit:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, or an agency or a political subdivision of the United States
government;
      (2)   License fees or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   Principal and interest payments on bonds;
      (6)   Payroll;
      (7)   Federal, state or county taxes;
      (8)   Grants of local, state or federal funds authorized by statute;
      (9)   In cases of machinery breakdown and a purchase needs to be made
from a vendor that the town does not have an account with, providing the
purchase is under $500;
      (10)   Purchases made from the Police Reserve Donation Fund, Park
Donation Fund, Historic Farmland Donation Fund or Fire Department Donation
Fund;
      (11)   Lease agreements or rental agreements;
      (12)   Training and conference fees;
      (13)   Meter deposit refunds after the final bill is paid; and
      (14)   Reimburse employees’ medical and prescription deductibles.
   (B)   Each payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a
fully itemized claim.
   (C)   The Town Council, having jurisdiction over the allowance of the claim,
shall review and allow the claim at the body’s or Council’s next regular or
special meeting following the preapproved payment of the expense.
(Res. 2022-02, passed 1-13-2022)
CHAPTER 33: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Administrative Policies and Procedures
   
33.001   Abbreviated Title VI Plan/Nondiscrimination Agreement adopted
   
33.002   Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Transition Plan adopted
   
33.003   Newspaper for legal advertising designated
   
33.004   Smoking in City Building prohibited
   
33.005   Photocopy and facsimile transmission fee
   
33.006   Handgun application fee
   
33.007   Reimbursement for damage during snow removal by town
Safety, Emergency Response and Preparedness
   
33.020   Civil emergencies
   
33.021   Quarantines
   
33.022   National Incident Management System (NIMS) adopted
   
33.023   County Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan adopted
Electronic Meetings Policy
   
33.035   Title; scope; definitions
   
33.036   Participation by electronic communication allowed
   
33.037   Limitations on electronic participation
   
33.038   Minutes or memoranda requirements
   
33.039   Taking final action prohibits electronic participation
   
33.040   Electronic participation when emergency declared
Capital Asset Policy
   
33.055   Purpose
   
33.056   Classification of assets
   
33.057   Capitalization thresholds
   
33.058   Annual updating and reporting
   
33.059   Estimated useful lives of depreciable assets
   
33.060   Depreciation method/convention
   
33.061   Retirements
   
33.062   Responsibility for property record maintenance
   
33.063   Assets purchased with federal grant funds
   
33.064   Property control
Internal Control Standards and Materiality Threshold
   
33.075   Purpose; Clerk-Treasurer as chief agent
   
33.076   Materiality policy directives adopted
   
33.077   Internal control standards adopted
 
   
33.999   Penalty
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
§ 33.001 ABBREVIATED TITLE VI PLAN/NONDISCRIMINATION AGREEMENT ADOPTED.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the Abbreviated Title VI Plan/
Nondiscrimination Agreement, incorporated herein by reference and implemented
as if it were set out in full.
(Res. 2016-10, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 33.002 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (ADA) TRANSITION PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
Transition Plan for Public Rights-of-Way for the town, incorporated herein by
reference and implemented as if it were set out in full.
   (B)   The town shall comply with the terms of the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA) Transition Plan for Public Rights-of-Way for the town,
incorporated herein by reference and implemented as if it were set out in full.
(Ord. 2012-03, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 33.003 NEWSPAPER FOR LEGAL ADVERTISING DESIGNATED.
   For legal advertising, the town will advertise in the Winchester News-
Gazette.
(Res. 2022-04, passed 1-13-2022)
§ 33.004 SMOKING IN CITY BUILDING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to smoke in the City Building.
   (B)   This section became effective September 1, 1987, after proper posting
of signs.
(Ord. 1987-6, passed 8-24-1987) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.005 PHOTOCOPY AND FACSIMILE TRANSMISSION FEE.
   (A)   Public policy declared. It is declared to be in the interest of the
public policy, and as a courtesy to town residents, to have a place to make
photocopies and to send and receive facsimile transmissions.
   (B)   Cost for photocopies and facsimile transmissions.
      (1)   The cost for photocopies shall be $0.10. The cost for sending a
facsimile transmission shall be $1.25 for the first page and $0.85 per page
thereafter. The cost to receive facsimile transmissions shall be $0.25 per
page.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to collect said funds
received under this section and place said funds into the General Fund for
proper use by the town.
(Ord. 96-03, passed 9-9-1996)
§ 33.006 HANDGUN APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   (1)   The town, pursuant to I.C. 35-47-2-3(b), does hereby establish
an application fee of $10, as per statute, which fee shall be collected from
every applicant filing an application with the Town Marshal for a handgun
license. Of said fee, $5 shall be refunded if the license is not issued.
      (2)   This division (A) shall be in full force and effect from September
1, 1983, and thereafter.
   (B)   The fee, as collected under division (A) above, shall be deposited
into the law enforcement agencies’ “Firearms Training Fund” or other
appropriate fund for training activities.
   (C)   Further, such application fee, as collected and deposited to the funds
as above designated, shall be used by the Police Department exclusively for the
purpose of training law enforcement officers in the proper use of firearms or
other law enforcement duties.
   (D)   Said account or accounts as established shall comply with any rules
and regulations for proper accounting and expenditure of funds as propagated by
the State Board of Accounts.
(Ord. 1982-4, passed 3-1-1982; Ord. 1983-5, passed 7-11-1983)
§ 33.007 REIMBURSEMENT FOR DAMAGE DURING SNOW REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is authorized to reimburse a
resident of the town for damages caused by town employees during the removal of
snow in an amount up to $50, provided the resident provides:
         (a)   Proof of the damage caused; and
         (b)   A receipt for materials purchased for the repair or replacement
of the property.
      (2)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall request that the Town Marshal verify the
claim prior to the reimbursement of the resident.
   (B)   Any claim requesting reimbursement for damages caused during snow
removal in an amount exceeding $50 shall not be paid unless approved by the
Town Council at an open meeting.
(Res. 2009-05, passed 5-4-2009)
SAFETY, EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND PREPAREDNESS
§ 33.020 CIVIL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CIVIL EMERGENCY.
         (a)   A riot of unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force of violence, or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute such force, by three or more persons acting together without
authority of law; or
         (b)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion, within the corporate
limits of the town resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public healthy, safety and welfare.
      CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the town during the
hours in which a CURFEW has been imposed, excepting persons officially
designated to duty with reference to said civil emergency.
   (B)   Proclamation by Town Council. When, in the judgment of the Town
Council, a civil emergency as defined herein is deemed to exist, they shall
forthwith proclaim in writing the existence of same. In case of the absence of
the Town Council from the town, the Town Marshal shall be authorized to act in
its stead.
   (C)   Imposition of curfew. After proclamation of a civil emergency by the
Town Council, it may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical
areas of the town, or to the town as a whole, as it deems advisable and
applicable during such hours of the day or night as it deems necessary in the
interest of the public safety and welfare.
   (D)   Additional regulations. After proclamation of a civil emergency, the
Town Council may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any
or all of the following orders:
      (1)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores;
      (2)   Order the closing of all taverns;
      (3)   Order the closing of all private clubs, or portions thereof wherein
the consumption of intoxicating liquor and/or beer is permitted;
      (4)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of beer;
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle;
      (6)   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other establishments the
chief activity of which is the sale, distribution or dispensing of liquid
flammable or combustible products;
      (7)   Order the discontinuance of the selling, distributing, dispensing
or giving away of firearms and/or ammunition; and
      (8)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   (E)   Emergency powers. During the period of a declared state of emergency,
the Town Council shall have the power to invoke any or all of the following
provisions.
      (1)   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverages in a public street
or place which is publicly owned, or in any motor vehicle driven or parked
thereon, which is within a duly designated restricted area.
      (2)   No person shall carry or possess any rock, bottle, club, brick or
weapon who uses or intends to use the same unlawfully against the persons or
property of another.
      (3)   No person shall make, carry, possess or use any type of “Molotov
cocktail,” gasoline- or petroleum-based fire bomb or other incendiary missile.
      (4)   No person shall enter any area designated by the Town Council as a
restricted area unless in the performance of official duties or with written
permission from the Town Council or its duly designated representative, or such
person shall prove residence therein.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed 6-3-1970) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.021 QUARANTINES.
   It shall be the duty of the town, whenever any contagious disease which is
dangerous to public health is reported to him or her or which comes to his or
her knowledge, he or she shall placard the house where such disease exists with
the name of the disease thereupon. Whenever there is diphtheria, scarlet fever
or smallpox within the town or its vicinity, or in any adjacent town, it shall
be the duty of the town to enforce a strict quarantine. He or she shall close
all public meetings of whatever kind whenever he or she deems it in the
interest of the public health so to do.
(Ord. 68, passed 1-12-1903)
§ 33.022 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS) ADOPTED.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the National Incident Management System,
dated October 2017, as the standard for incident management by the town,
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 2006-08, passed - -)
§ 33.023 COUNTY MULTI-HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN ADOPTED.
   The town hereby adopts the county’s Multi-Hazard Mitigation Plan as an
official plan, incorporated herein by reference.
(Res. 2017-10, passed 12-4-2017)
ELECTRONIC MEETINGS POLICY
§ 33.035 TITLE; SCOPE; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as the “Electronic Meetings Policy” of
the Council and applies to the Council and any committee appointed directly by
this Council or its presiding officer.
   (B)   The provisions of I.C. 5-14-1.5-1 et seq., as amended by Pub. Law No.
88-2021 (HEA 1437) (the “Act”), including definitions, apply to this
subchapter.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 33.036 PARTICIPATION BY ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION ALLOWED.
   (A)   Subject to §§
33.037 and
33.039 of this chapter, any member may participate in a meeting by any
electronic means of communication that:
      (1)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
      (2)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
   (B)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
      (1)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a quorum;
and
      (2)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen and
heard.
   (C)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 33.037 LIMITATIONS ON ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a meeting at
which a member will participate by means of electronic communication. Not more
than 50% of the members may participate by an electronic means of communication
at that same meeting.
   (B)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication unless the member’s electronic
participation is due to:
      (1)   Military service;
      (2)   Illness or other medical condition;
      (3)   Death of a relative; or
      (4)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
   (C)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a set of meetings) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between sets of meetings that the member attends by electronic communication
unless the member’s absence is due to:
      (1)   Military service;
      (2)   Illness or other medical condition;
      (3)   Death of a relative; or
      (4)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 33.038 MINUTES OR MEMORANDA REQUIREMENTS.
   The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any member participates by
electronic means of communication must:
   (A)   Identify each member who:
      (1)   Was physically present at the meeting;
      (2)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of communication;
and
      (3)   Was absent.
   (B)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
      (1)   Members participated in the meeting; and
      (2)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting if the
meeting was not an executive session.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 33.039 TAKING FINAL ACTION PROHIBITS ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION.
   No member of the Council may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the Council may take final action to:
   (A)   Adopt a budget;
   (B)   Make a reduction in personnel;
   (C)   Initiate a referendum;
   (D)   Impose or increase a fee;
   (E)   Impose or increase a penalty;
   (F)   Exercise the Council’s power of eminent domain; or
   (G)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 33.040 ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION WHEN EMERGENCY DECLARED.
   (A)   Members are not required to be physically present for a meeting until
the emergency is terminated if an emergency is declared by:
      (1)   The governor under I.C. 10-14-3-12; or
      (2)   The Town Council President under I.C. 10-14-3-29.
   (B)   Members may participate in a meeting by any means of communication,
provided that:
      (1)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person;
      (2)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting unless
the meeting is an executive session; and
      (3)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with §
33.038 of this chapter.
   (C)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021)
CAPITAL ASSET POLICY
§ 33.055 PURPOSE.
   The Capital Asset Policy became effective January 1, 2020. The purpose of
the policy is to facilitate the preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.056 CLASSIFICATION OF ASSETS.
   (A)   CAPITAL ASSETS are personal property and real property and other
assets used in the operations of the government that have an expected estimated
useful life beyond a single reporting period.
   (B)   Capital assets are to include any item that falls into one of the
following categories:
      (1)   Land;
      (2)   Improvements to land;
      (3)   Buildings;
      (4)   Furnishings and equipment;
      (5)   Vehicles;
      (6)   Computer software;
      (7)   General infrastructure; and
      (8)   Construction in progress.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.057 CAPITALIZATION THRESHOLDS.
   (A)   To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting purposes, an
item must, at the time of acquisition, be valued for accounting and financial
reporting purpose at a unit value greater than or equal to $5,000 (also $5,000
if funded through a federal grant).
   (B)   Assets shall remain as part of the property record until they are
retired, sold, traded or otherwise disposed of regardless of their net book
value amount.
   (C)   The capitalization threshold for the following classes of assets shall
be:
      (1)   Land: N/A;
      (2)   Improvements to land: $10,000;
      (3)   Buildings: $25,000;
      (4)   Furnishings and equipment and vehicles: $5,000;
      (5)   Federal grant furnishings and equipment: $5,000;
      (6)   Computer software: $10,000;
      (7)   General infrastructure: $25,000; and
      (8)   Construction in progress: N/A.
   (D)   With regard to improvements to buildings and general infrastructure, a
capital outlay must be significant and increase capacity, increase efficiency
or extend the asset’s estimated useful life beyond what was originally
estimated.
   (E)   (1)   A CHANGE IN CAPACITY increases the level of service provided by
the asset. A CHANGE IN EFFICIENCY either increases the level of service asset
or the change maintains the same level of service at a lower cost.
      (2)   For example, an addition to a building provides increased square
footage; hence, the capacity is increased and the capital outlay is
capitalized. Widening a road with additional lanes increases capacity; hence,
the capital outlay is capitalized. An extended estimated useful life will
result from a significant alternation, structural change or improvement.
   (F)   While substantial repairs and renovations shall be reviewed for
potential capitalization, it is anticipated that most will be expensed in the
current year. These expenses often merely restore the asset to its original
service potential but do not necessarily improve the asset.
   (G)   All land, including rights-of-way, shall be capitalized at the time of
acquisition. If donated, it shall be recorded at its estimated acquisition
value.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.058 ANNUAL UPDATING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Capital assets shall be recorded at historical cost, which includes
any ancillary charges necessary to place the asset into its intended location
and condition for use. ANCILLARY CHARGES include, for example, freight and
transportation charges, site preparation costs and professional fees.
ENGINEERING COSTS (internal and external) include related preliminary project
and environmental studies; project estimating, design and planning (drawings
and specifications); and construction engineering, construction management,
construction inspection and project payment.
   (B)   However, no such costs shall be capitalized unless they can be
directly identified to a specific capital asset and have been incurred
subsequent to the determination that the capital asset will, in fact, be
acquired (the cost of a feasibility study are not capitalizable, nor are other
costs related to the project occurring prior to its completion). Donated
capital assets are recorded at the value that would be necessary to acquire
them.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.059 ESTIMATED USEFUL LIVES OF DEPRECIABLE ASSETS.
   (A)   Capital assets have estimated useful lives extending beyond a single
reporting period (one year) and are depreciated using the straight-line method,
with no allowance for salvage value.
   (B)   The estimated useful lives currently used were developed with the
input of knowledgeable staff and reflect our government’s experience with these
assets:
      (1)   Land: non-depreciable;
      (2)   Improvements to land: 20 years;
      (3)   Buildings: 50 years;
      (4)   Furnishings and equipment: five years;
      (5)   Vehicles:
         (a)   Autos: five years;
         (b)   Light trucks: ten years;
         (c)   Heavy trucks: 15 years; and
         (d)   Fire trucks: 30 years.
      (6)   General infrastructure: 50 years; and
      (7)   Computer software: five years.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.060 DEPRECIATION METHOD/CONVENTION.
   Depreciation will be calculated using the straight-line method and full-year
convention. No salvage value or residual value will be recognized.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.061 RETIREMENTS.
   (A)   Retirements apply to all capital assets, including land, improvements
to land, buildings, furnishings and equipment, vehicles and general
infrastructure.
   (B)   When an asset is disposed of, scrapped, sold, subject to demolition
and the like, it is to be removed from the property record, and the appropriate
reduction shall be made to the asset value, accumulated depreciation and net
book value amounts.
   (C)   Retirements shall reflect the originally recorded value of the capital
asset when the amount is ascertainable. When the originally recorded value of
the capital asset is not ascertainable, an estimate of that amount (typically
historical cost) shall be made.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.062 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPERTY RECORD MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall ensure that appropriate accounting of
capital assets is being exercised by establishing a capital asset inventory and
updating it each year. Each annual update shall reflect all improvements,
additions, retirements and transfers that occurred during the year. The update
also shall ensure that the annual calculation of depreciation expense is
adjusted accordingly.
   (B)   Day-to-day stewardship of personal property above the capitalization
threshold of $5,000 is the responsibility of the department utilizing the
property.
   (C)   (1)   To allow for the annual updating of the capital asset records,
the departments are responsible to report information on improvements,
additions, retirements and transfers in detail to the Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   It is expected that this reporting will be made in a timely manner,
as the capital asset record must be updated annually. These departments
include, but are not limited to, Public Works, Police and Fire, Parks,
Engineering, Planning and Administration. In essence, the Clerk-Treasurer will
record all additions and the departments will determine all retirements and
transfers and submit the information to the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   In summary, additions of assets at or above the unit capitalization
threshold of $5,000 are to be reported to the Clerk-Treasurer by the
departments upon purchase or receipt of the asset. These will be verified per
the purchasing process by the Clerk-Treasurer. Transfers and retirements of
assets at or above the $5,000 unit threshold are to be reported as such by the
departments to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time of the transaction.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.063 ASSETS PURCHASED WITH FEDERAL GRANT FUNDS.
   Assets at or above a threshold of $5,000 on a unit basis funded with a
federal grant are to be reported for federal compliance purposes. To achieve
this end, a subsidiary list or other indicator is to be established and
maintained annually and includes all such assets currently in use.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 33.064 PROPERTY CONTROL.
   (A)   Capital assets below the capitalization threshold of $5,000 on a unit
basis but warranting “control” shall be inventoried at the department level,
and an appropriate list will be maintained. Data elements are to include asset
description, location, make, model, serial number and other information that
assists control deemed relevant.
   (B)   Assets below the capitalization threshold but considered sensitive may
include, for example, weapons, radios, personal computers, laptop computers,
printers, fax machines and small power tools. These minor but sensitive items
shall be inventoried and controlled at the department level. Stewardship of
these minor but sensitive items is the responsibility of the departments
utilizing these properties.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall determine appropriate means, level of
detailed data elements and the system to be utilized. Finally, the Clerk-
Treasurer shall request copies of the inventory and/or updated inventory of
controllable items so as to periodically review the information and adherence
to policy and check the integrity of the data.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 8-3-2020)
INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS AND MATERIALITY THRESHOLD
§ 33.075 PURPOSE; CLERK-TREASURER AS CHIEF AGENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy is to communicate the Town Council’s
internal control objectives to all employees and elected officials of the town
and to firmly commit the town to the principles of internal controls as
established by the State Board of Accounts.
   (B)   The town has the responsibility to establish and maintain an adequate
system of internal controls and furnish the Town Council, governmental
agencies, creditors and others reliable financial information on a timely
basis. As the fiscal body, the Town Council expects the town administration and
the town’s employees to affect an internal control environment with policies
and procedures necessary to provide reasonably assurance that practices cause
effective and efficient operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance
with applicable laws and regulations and to minimize the risk of loss.
   (C)   (1)   As the town’s chief financial officer, the Clerk-Treasurer will
be the town’s chief agent in implementing and managing the internal control
policies and procedures. As the individual with delegated approval authority,
the Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining and supporting the
system of internal controls.
      (2)   The Town Council directs the Clerk-Treasurer and the Town
Supervisors to monitor the necessary compliance with the policy on materiality
and process for reporting material items and report noteworthy items to the
Town Council.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 33.076 MATERIALITY POLICY DIRECTIVES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The materiality threshold for the town shall be $500. If the erroneous
or irregular variance, loss, shortage or theft is not cash or a cash
equivalent, the value of the item at the time of the variance, loss, shortage
or theft shall be used to determine whether materiality threshold has been met.
   (B)   All erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts of
$5,000 or more shall be reported immediately to the State Board of Accounts. In
addition, all erroneous or irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts
which occur more than three times in a month and which, in the aggregate, total
$5,000 or more shall be reported immediately to the State Board of Accounts.
   (C)   A town employee or public officer who has knowledge of or reasonable
cause to believe that there has been a misappropriation of public funds or
assets of the public office shall immediately send written notice of the
misappropriation to the State Board of Accounts and the County Prosecuting
Attorney.
   (D)   The town shall maintain records and documents concerning erroneous or
irregular variances, losses, shortages or thefts in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and the internal control standards provided by
the State Board of Accounts.
   (E)   The Town Council calls upon the Clerk-Treasurer and all town
officials, employees and agents to enforce and comply with the policy on
materiality and process for reporting material items and report noteworthy
items to the Town Council.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 12-5-2016) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.077 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   (A)   It is ordered and determined that the town hereby adopts as policy the
internal control standards as set forth by the State Board of Accounts Uniform
Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political Subdivisions manual, as
expressly written and published by the State Board of Accounts in September
2015 and as amended from time to time. Whenever the State Board of Accounts
Uniform Internal Control Standards imposes a greater restriction or higher
standard than is required by a provision of this code, the more restrictive
provisions apply.
   (B)   It is furthered ordained that at the time the annual financial report
is electronically filed, the Clerk-Treasurer, as fiscal officer of the town,
shall certify in writing that the uniform internal control standards for the
state’s political subdivisions have been adopted and shall certify that the
personnel have been trained as required by law.
   (C)   It is further ordained that the town shall adopt the following: The
town adopts as policy the internal control standards as set forth by the State
Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for Indiana Political
Subdivisions manual, as expressly written and published by the State Board of
Accounts in September 2015 and as amended from time to time. In order to
implement these standards, the Clerk-Treasurer shall certify in writing that
personnel, as defined in the statue, have received the required training. All
elected officials, officers and employees are required to comply with the
policy.
(Ord. 2016-11, passed 12-5-2016) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
33.004 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C infraction as defined in
I.C. 34-28-5-4 and, upon conviction, shall be fined accordingly.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
33.020 of this chapter or any order made by the Town Council in accordance with
the terms of §
33.020 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment
for a period not to exceed six months.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be a misdemeanor to mutilate or destroy the card set
out in §
33.021(A) of this chapter, except by order of the Town Health Officer.
      (2)   Whenever any trustees of churches, school boards or owners of
public halls, or lessees of same, after having been ordered by the Health
Officer to close a building or church or school as set out in §
33.021(B) of this chapter, shall fail or refuse to comply with said order, or
any person failing to comply with the provisions of §
33.021(B), shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be fined for each offense in any sum not exceeding $10.
      (3)   Each day such person shall violate or refuse to comply with the
orders of the Health Officer, or with the provisions of §
33.021 of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense and fined
as aforesaid.
   (E)   Employees who fail to comply with the policy set out in §
33.077 of this chapter are subject to discipline including, but not limited to,
their employment.
(Ord. 68, passed 1-12-1903; Ord. 1970-1, passed 6-3-1970; Ord. 1987-6, passed
8-24-1987; Ord. 2016-11, passed 12-5-2016)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
      
52.   WATER SERVICE
      
53.   WATER RATES AND CHARGES
      
54.   SEWER SERVICE
      
55.   SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
      
56.   STORM WATER SYSTEM; RATES AND CHARGES
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Clerk-Treasurer’s office collects charges
   
50.02   Order of allocation when full bill amount not paid
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 CLERK-TREASURER’S OFFICE COLLECTS CHARGES.
   The Clerk-Treasurer’s Office of the town shall be responsible to collect all
charges due on the water, sewage and refuse collection bill each month.
(Ord. 1998-02, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 50.02 ORDER OF ALLOCATION WHEN FULL BILL AMOUNT NOT PAID.
   (A)   In the event that a town resident fails to pay the entire amount due
for said water, sewage and refuse collection bill each month, the amount paid
shall be applied in the following order, to wit: water bill, tax on water bill,
penalty for late payment of water bill, refuse collection bill, penalty for
late payment of refuse collection bill, sewage bill and the penalty for the
late payment of the sewage bill. The above order of payment shall continue
until the entire bill, including late charges, is paid in full by the town
resident.
   (B)   All late charges for such water, sewage and refuse collection have
been authorized and will be pursued under the relevant provisions of Chapters
51, 53 and 55 of this code.
(Ord. 2004-03, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   In addition to all charges and penalties set forth in §§
50.01 and
50.02 of this chapter and in Chapters
51,
53 and
55 of this code, there shall also be any additional penalties for nonpayment of
water, sewage and refuse collection as set forth in each individual chapter and
amendments thereto. Further, all such remedies to enforce said violations of
the chapters and amendments thereto may be pursued by the town to collect said
fees due and owing to the town.
(Ord. 1998-02, passed 1-5-1998)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND RECYCLING
Section
General Provisions and Administration
   
51.01   Public policy declared
   
51.02   Awarding garbage collection contract
   
51.03   “Resident” explained
Rates and Billing
   
51.15   Billing for garbage collection
   
51.16   Rate for garbage disposal services
   
51.17   Collection of funds
Regulations for Collection and Storage
   
51.30   Restrictions for setting out, storing garbage; defense
   
51.31   Collection to be from curb; exclusions
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.01 PUBLIC POLICY DECLARED.
   (A)   It is declared to be in the best interest of the public policy of the
town that there be a “Comprehensive Refuse Collection Ordinance” so that all
residents of the town will receive the benefit of trash collection and that all
residents of the town be responsible for such a service.
   (B)   By doing so, the town wishes to be able to bid competitively for such
services, thereby reducing the overall rate paid by each resident.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 7-7-1997)
§ 51.02 AWARDING GARBAGE COLLECTION CONTRACT.
   In order to achieve the lowest price for said services, the town shall
advertise for bids from contractors based upon a three-year contract for said
services. The bidding process is to comply with the regulations in the State
Code for municipalities.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 7-7-1997)
§ 51.03 “RESIDENT” EXPLAINED.
   (A)   All houses with an attached apartment or separate dwelling shall be
considered a resident for purposes of this chapter and shall be billed under
such as a resident of the town.
   (B)   A business where the owners live above in the same building shall be
considered a resident for purposes of this chapter and shall be billed under
such as a resident of the town.
   (C)   The residents of the trailer court in town shall be billed
individually for the trash collection.
   (D)   Included in such billing shall be churches, the town park, municipal
or town buildings and downtown containers, all within the town limits. Said
sites shall be considered a resident for purposes of this chapter and shall be
billed under such as a resident of the town.
(Ord. 97-07, passed 8-4-1997)
RATES AND BILLING
§ 51.15 BILLING FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   After the contract is awarded, the town will be billed the entire yearly
amount for said refuse collection on a per rata basis each month. Said amount
will be divided equally between all residents of the town who currently receive
town water and/or town sewage, and each resident will be billed monthly along
with the water and sewage bills for his or her share of said bill. Said bills
for refuse collection shall be due at the same time the water and/or sewage
bills are paid and shall be paid in the same manner.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 7-7-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.16 RATE FOR GARBAGE DISPOSAL SERVICES.
   The rate charged to residents of the town for garbage disposal services was
raised to $11.06 per month, effective January 1, 2023. The town may consider an
increase in the rate charged to residents of the town at such time as any
change in the cost to the town is realized.
(Res. 2017-11, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 51.17 COLLECTION OF FUNDS.
   The Clerk-Treasurer of the town is hereby authorized to collect said funds
stated above for each resident’s share of the refuse collection contract and
shall deposit said sums into the Refuse Fund for the town. In addition, the
Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to promptly pay all appropriate monthly
sums due directly to the refuse collector according to the town contract.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 7-7-1997)
REGULATIONS FOR COLLECTION AND STORAGE
§ 51.30 RESTRICTIONS FOR SETTING OUT, STORING GARBAGE; DEFENSE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SCHEDULED TRASH PICKUP DAY. The day of the week on which the residents of
the town are scheduled by the trash disposal service for removal of trash from
the trash toters.
      TRASH TOTER. The container supplied by the trash disposal service for
residents to utilize for trash pickup, or any other container in which trash is
placed within with the intent that the trash pickup service will remove and
properly dispose of the trash.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   No person, firm, organization or corporation shall permit
a trash toter, trash, garbage or other discarded large items to be left in
plain view within ten feet of a public street or in the area designated by the
town for trash pickup, except for the following time period:
            1.   From 4:00 p.m. on the evening prior to the scheduled trash
pickup day until 4:00 p.m. on the day following the scheduled trash pick up
day; and
            2.   Large items shall not be left at the curb more than 24 hours
prior to the scheduled pickup day, which is presently the first Thursday of the
month.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (A), the fact that a trash toter
or other discarded material is found within 10 feet of a public street on real
estate owned by a person, except within the designated time period, is prima
facie evidence that the owner of such real estate is in violation of this
section.
      (2)   No person, firm, organization or corporation which is a resident of
the town shall leave or store a trash toter, trash, garbage or other discarded
items to be left in plain view within ten feet of a public street or in the
area designated by the town for trash pick up, except for the following time
period: from 4:00 p.m. on the evening prior to the scheduled trash pickup day
until 4:00 p.m. on the day following the scheduled trash pickup day.
      (3)   It is a defense to this section if the trash toter in question:
         (a)   Is stored within three feet of the residence; or
         (b)   If the trash toter is stored as far as practical from the
street.
      (4)   This section applies to residents of the town. Specifically, it is
a defense to the section if the trash toter is being utilized by the town or
any other tax exempt organization for a special event which is approved by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 2016-13, passed 2-6-2017) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.31 COLLECTION TO BE FROM CURB; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   The contractor awarded the job will make weekly collections of garbage
and rubbish from the curb line of each residence within the town. Any multi-
unit dwellings and businesses, including apartment complexes, shall be excluded
under this section.
   (B)   Only garbage and refuse will be collected at the curbside. The removal
of any furniture, appliances, construction debris and remodeling trash will not
be included in this chapter and will need to be specifically scheduled for
pickup directly with the refuse collector.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 7-7-1997)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any resident of the town who fails to promptly pay his or her bill for
the refuse collection, as set out under §
51.15 of this chapter, shall have a penalty of 10% of the refuse collection fee
that is imposed if not paid in full by the fifteenth of each month. Said
payments, or lack thereof, shall be monitored by the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm, or organization found to be in violation of §
51.30 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount up to $50.
      (2)   Each day a person, firm or organization continues to remain in
violation of §
51.30 of this chapter is a separate offense.
(Ord. 96-10, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 2016-13, passed 2-6-2017)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Water service provided within corporate limits
   
52.02   Tapping fee
   
52.03   Meter deposit fee
   
52.04   Unclaimed meter deposit fee after service discontinued
   
52.05   Reconnection fee after disconnection for nonpayment
Billing and Payment
   
52.20   Use of water expresses consent to contract
   
52.21   Deferred payment charges
   
52.22   Failure to pay
   
52.23   Payment by renters
   
52.24   Clerk-Treasurer to collect funds, report
   
52.25   Notice of delinquency
   
52.26   Bill adjustment after a water leak
Cross-Connections and Backflow
   
52.40   Definition
   
52.41   Scope of provisions
   
52.42   Cross-connections prohibited; exception
   
52.43   Inspections; right to enter
   
52.44   Disconnection for cross-connection; right to hearing
   
52.45   Backflow preventer required for certain users
   
52.46   Notice issuance; remedies pursued
Unauthorized Reconnections
   
52.60   Definition
   
52.61   Unauthorized reconnection prohibited
   
52.62   Presumption that user reconnected service
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 WATER SERVICE PROVIDED WITHIN CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   The town shall extend basic residential water service to any platted
lots within the corporate town limit which were platted prior to October
21,1997 where a building permit has been issued for the purpose of providing
water service to a residence. Said service shall be extended to the closest
part of the property line of the existing platted lot.
   (B)   Any expenses to take the water service from the property line to the
residence shall be borne by the home owner or developer. All connection and tap
fees shall still be applicable and shall not be affected by this section.
(Ord. 97-13, passed 11-3-1997)
§ 52.02 TAPPING FEE.
   Each user, at the time he or she is connected with the waterworks system,
shall pay a tapping fee to cover the cost of tapping the main, furnishing and
laying service pipe, service and meter box and installing the meter at the cost
of $500, plus cost of materials. In the event that boring under any street is
required for installation, the cost of said boring shall be paid by the user.
(Ord. 2000-5, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 52.03 METER DEPOSIT FEE.
   Meter deposits, beginning on November 1, 2000, and thereafter, shall be in
the amount of $125, and all customers applying for new service or change of
location on and after said date shall be required to maintain on deposit with
the town the sum of $125 as security against unpaid bills for water service,
and said deposits shall not be refunded to the customers until all bills and
charges owing the town are paid in full.
(Res. 2000-8, passed 9-7-2000)
§ 52.04 UNCLAIMED METER DEPOSIT FEE AFTER SERVICE DISCONTINUED.
   (A)   Any meter deposit fee which is not claimed by the resident entitled to
claim said fee within six years of the date that water service is discontinued
shall be considered abandoned, and said fees shall be transferred to the Water
Cash Operating Fund. Said funds shall be considered the property of the town
and may be used at the discretion of the Town Council.
   (B)   Each resident of the town shall be given notice at the time water
service is discontinued that the remainder of the meter deposit will be
forfeited to the town if it is not claimed with six years. Each resident shall
provide a forwarding address for which the town can utilize to forward notice
of the refund of any remaining water meter deposit fee. The failure of the
resident to provide a forwarding address to the town within 30 days of the
discontinuation of water service shall constitute a per se forfeiture of said
water meter deposit.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 7-5-2005)
§ 52.05 RECONNECTION FEE AFTER DISCONNECTION FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   Payment of outstanding/delinquent bill.
      (1)   At such time that any individual shall request reinstatement of
water utility services for any address within the town, the Town Clerk-
Treasurer shall determine whether there is any outstanding or delinquent water
bill for such address or residence.
      (2)   In the event that the Town Clerk-Treasurer determines that there is
a delinquent water bill for prior water utility services rendered at such
address or residence, any prior outstanding and/or delinquent water bill shall
be paid prior to the time that water utility service may be reconnected at such
address.
   (B)   Reconnection fee. Pursuant to Res. 2005-10, a reconnect fee of $35
shall be assessed against any user which has his or her water service
discontinued due to delinquent payment for water service provided by the town.
Said fee must be paid in full prior to the time that the water service will be
returned to said resident.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 11-2-2009; Ord. 2021-03, passed 4-5-2021)
BILLING AND PAYMENT
§ 52.20 USE OF WATER EXPRESSES CONSENT TO CONTRACT.
   The water rates, rules and regulations herein provided for shall be
considered a part of the contract with each and every person, company or
corporation who is supplied with water by means of the water systems of the
town, and every person, company or corporation accepting water by said means
shall be considered to express his, hers or its consent to be bound thereby.
(Ord. 1982-10, passed 11-1-1982) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 DEFERRED PAYMENT CHARGES.
   All bills for water service not paid within 15 days from the due date
thereof, as stated in such bills, shall be subject to the collection or
deferred payment charge of 10% on the first $3 and 3% on the excess over $3.
(Ord. 1982-10, passed 11-1-1982)
§ 52.22 FAILURE TO PAY.
   If payment for any water account is not made at the end of 30 days after
same account becomes due, the water furnished any customer may be shut off by
the town. All charges for water shall be paid by the property owner or owners,
and all such charges become a lien upon said property.
(Ord. 1960-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 PAYMENT BY RENTERS.
   Any property owner desiring to have his or her renters pay for water used
must give the town a written notice of such desire and a written statement that
such property owner will be responsible for the payment of any delinquent water
rent that might be owing by such renter or renters.
(Ord. 1960-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.24 CLERK-TREASURER TO COLLECT FUNDS, REPORT.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall act as Clerk-Treasurer of the Town Municipal
Water Department, and he or she shall collect and receipt for all water rents
and place all money collected to the credit of the town, and her or she shall
report in writing to the Town Council, and at the first regular meeting in each
year, all receipts and disbursements of said Water Department. Whenever
permission of the town is required at any time the Town Council is not in
session, written permission of the Town Clerk- Treasurer shall be deemed
sufficient until such time as said Council shall meet and approve his or her
act and shall constitute full and complete permission when the records shall
show such approval, and all reports required to be made in writing to the Town
Council shall be deemed to be made when filed with the Clerk-Treasurer and
shall operate as a compliance with this section.
(Ord. 1960-1, passed - -)
§ 52.25 NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY.
   The Clerk-Treasurer shall mail notice of a water utility bill delinquency
exceeding 60 days to the owner of the real estate upon which the residence or
apartment is located. All owners of real estate located within the town shall
provide the Clerk-Treasurer of the town with a current mailing address. Any
property owner who fails to provide the town with a current mailing address
waives the notice requirement provided in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 52.26 BILL ADJUSTMENT AFTER A WATER LEAK.
   (A)   If a water leak occurs, and after the leak is repaired, the Town
Clerk-Treasurer shall make certain adjustments to the customer’s water bill
after the leak is corrected according to the following formula to determine the
charge for the customer. Under said circumstances, the customer will be charged
three times the average usage rate plus one-half the difference between the
actual usage and the average usage rate times three, as determined above.
   (B)   If a water leak occurs, the customer will also be given credit on the
sewage bill as well, and the customer will only be charged, for that month in
which the leak occurred, the average sewage rate over the previous six months
instead of the rate incurred due to the water leak.
(Ord. 96-15, passed 2-3-1996)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS AND BACKFLOW
§ 52.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate systems, one of which contains potable water from the town
water system and the other, water from a private source, water of unknown or
questionable safety or steam, gases or chemicals, whereby there may be a flow
from one system to the other, the direction of flow depending on the pressure
differential between the two systems.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 52.41 SCOPE OF PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter does not supersede the state’s Uniform Plumbing Code but is
supplementary to it.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 52.42 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to establish,
or maintain or permit to be maintained, any cross-connection.
   (B)   No interconnection shall be established whereby potable water from a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the town may enter the supply or the distribution system of
said municipality unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply, and
the method of connection and use of such supply, shall have been approved by
the Town Council and the Environmental Board of the state.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.43 INSPECTIONS; RIGHT TO ENTER.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the town water utility to cause
inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water system
where cross-connection with the public water system is deemed possible.
      (2)   The frequency of inspections and reinspections, based on potential
health hazards involved, shall be as established by the town water utility.
   (B)   (1)   Upon presentation of credentials, the representative of the town
waterworks shall have the right to request entry at any reasonable time to
examine the property served by a connection to the public water system of the
town for cross-connections.
      (2)   On request, the owner, lessee or occupant of any property so served
shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the
piping systems on such property. The refusal of access or refusal of requested
pertinent information shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross-
connections.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.44 DISCONNECTION FOR CROSS-CONNECTION; RIGHT TO HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Water Utility is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of this subchapter exists and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water system.
      (2)   Water service shall be discontinued only after reasonable notice is
served on the owner, lessee or occupant of the property or premises where a
violation is found. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
the cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions
of this subchapter. A reasonable notice is deemed to be 30 days for purpose of
this section.
   (B)   If it is deemed by the town water utility that a cross-connection
endangers public health, safety or welfare and requires immediate action, and a
written finding to that effect is filed with the Clerk- Treasurer of the town
and delivered to the consumer’s premises, it may be immediately discontinued.
The consumer shall have an opportunity for hearing within ten days of such an
emergency discontinuance.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.45 BACKFLOW PREVENTER REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN USERS.
   (A)   (1)   All consumers using toxic or hazardous liquids, all hospitals,
mortuaries, wastewater treatment plants, laboratories and all other hazardous
users shall install and maintain a reduce-pressure principle backflow preventer
in the main water line serving each building on the premises.
      (2)   The backflow preventer must be installed in an easily accessible
location not subject to flooding or freezing.
   (B)   Plants or facilities as listed need a backflow prevention device:
      (1)   Auxiliary water systems;
      (2)   Beverage bottling plants;
      (3)   Aircraft and missile plants;
      (4)   Breweries;
      (5)   Buildings, hotels, apartment houses;
      (6)   Public and private or any other structures having unprotected
cross-connections, with the exception of single-family residential structures
with existing cross-connection. All single-family residential structures that
develop cross-connection after passage of this subchapter will be subject to
this section, and said devices will be provided by the town;
      (7)   Carwash facilities;
      (8)   Chemical plants, manufacturing, processing, compounding or
treatment;
      (9)   Chemical-contaminated water systems;
      (10)   Fire systems;
      (11)   Mortuaries, autopsy facilities;
      (12)   Irrigation systems, premises having separate systems, playgrounds,
cemeteries;
      (13)   Laundries and dye works;
      (14)   Metal manufacturing, cleaning, processing and fabrication plants;
      (15)   Oil and gas production, storage or transmission properties;
      (16)   Power plants, restricted, classified or other closed facilities;
      (17)   Sand and gravel plants; and
      (18)   Sewage and storm drain facilities.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.46 NOTICE ISSUANCE; REMEDIES PURSUED.
   (A)   The town water utility will issue a notice of violation to any person
it determines has or is violating any provisions of this subchapter. This
notice will state the nature of the violation, the action to be taken to
correct the violation, the time during which the corrective action must be
taken and the fines, penalties and remedies available to the town water utility
if the violation is not corrected.
   (B)   If the violation is not corrected as provided for in the notice, the
town water utility may exercise the following remedies, either separately or
jointly.
      (1)   Fines. The violator will be subject to a fine in the amount of $500
per day for each day, beginning when the time allowed for correction ends,
until the violation is corrected.
      (2)   Injunction. The town water utility is entitled to obtain, from a
court of competent jurisdiction, an order enjoining the violator from the
continued violation of this subchapter.
      (3)   Attorney fees. The town water utility is entitled to collect, from
the violator, any and all reasonable attorney fees it incurs in the prosecution
of any enforcement action.
      (4)   Money judgment. The town water utility is entitled to obtain, from
a court of competent jurisdiction, a money judgment equal to fines, court costs
and attorney fees as provided in this subchapter.
      (5)   Remediation. The town water utility is entitled to obtain, from a
court of competent jurisdiction, an order allowing a representative of the town
water utility to:
         (a)   Enter upon the property of the violator in order to remediate
the violation; and
         (b)   Obtain a money judgment against the violator for the expense
incurred by the utility in remediating the violation.
      (6)   Damages suffered by the utility. The town water utility is entitled
to obtain, from a court of competent jurisdiction, a money judgment for any
damages to its water supply, including, but not limited to, the cost of
decontamination, inspection, testing, provision of alternate water supply and
other damages, and for damages to its fixtures, equipment and property caused
by the violation of this section.
      (7)   Disconnection from the system. The town water utility is entitled
to disconnect the violator’s water system from the town water utility’s water
system without further notice if the violation is a danger to public health, as
provided in §
52.44(B) of this chapter.
      (8)   Other remedies. The town water utility is entitled to all other
remedies provided for by state law for a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-7-2018) Penalty, see §
52.99
UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTIONS
§ 52.60 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNAUTHORIZED INDIVIDUAL. Any person, firm or corporation who is not employed
by the town or does not have specific written permission from the town to
reconnect water service to a water service user in the town.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 4-5-2021)
§ 52.61 UNAUTHORIZED RECONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized individual shall reconnect the water service to a water
service user in the town.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 4-5-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.62 PRESUMPTION THAT USER RECONNECTED SERVICE.
   In the event that water service is reconnected without authorization of the
town to a water service user who has previously been disconnected by the town,
there shall be a rebuttable presumption that the resident of the dwelling or
business where the water service is provided is the unauthorized individual who
reconnected the water service.
(Ord. 2021-03, passed 4-5-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any provisions, rules or regulations
of §§
52.20 through
52.24 of this chapter, or any amendments hereafter made thereto, wherein no
penalty is fixed shall be subject to a fine of not less than $5 and not more
than $50.
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who is found to be in violation
of any provisions of §§
52.60 through
52.62 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding
$500, subject to the following:
         (a)   The minimum fine for a first offense shall be the sum of $150;
         (b)   The minimum fine for a second offense shall be the sum of $300;
and
         (c)   The minimum fine for a third or subsequent offense shall be the
sum of $400.
      (2)   In addition, any person who is convicted for an offense under §§
52.60 through
52.62 of this chapter shall reimburse the town for any damage caused to the
equipment of the town by the unauthorized individual.
(Ord. 1948-2, passed 10-4-1948; Ord. 2021-03, passed 4-5-2021)
CHAPTER 53: WATER RATES AND CHARGES
Section
   
53.01   Rates and charges established
   
53.02   Metered rates per month
   
53.03   Discounts
   
53.04   Fire hydrant rentals
   
53.05   Automatic sprinkler systems
   
53.06   Temporary users
§ 53.01 RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be, and there are hereby established for the use of and service
rendered by the waterworks system of the town, the following rates and charges
based upon the amount of water supplied during each monthly billing period and
the equipment used by said waterworks system.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 53.02 METERED RATES PER MONTH.
   (A)   There shall be a 5% increase each year for monthly metered rates. For
the period of January 1, 2023, until December 31, 2023, the water rates shall
be as follows:
Metered Water Rates Per Month
Gallons Rate Per Thousand
Metered Water Rates Per Month
Gallons             Rate Per Thousand
First 2,000 gallons $13.33
Next 5,000 gallons  $9.72
Next 10,000 gallons $7.77
Over 17,000 gallons $5.56
NOTES TO TABLE:
Subject to a minimum monthly rate of $26.66
 
   (B)   Commencing January 1, 2013, the water rates shall increase at the rate
of 5% in 2013 and an additional 5% on January 1 of each year thereafter in
order to meet anticipated increases in maintenance and operating costs.
(Ord. 2009-3, passed 9-8-2009)
§ 53.03 DISCOUNTS.
   All users consuming over 50,000 gallons in any given month shall be entitled
to a 15% discount on usage over 50,000 gallons. Users consuming over 75,000
gallons in any given month shall be entitled to a 25% discount on usage over
75,000 gallons.
(Ord. 1990-2, passed 3-5-1990)
§ 53.04 FIRE HYDRANT RENTALS.
 
Hydrant Type           Annual Charge
Municipal, per hydrant $373
Private, per hydrant   $373
 
(Ord. 1983-2, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 2008-03, passed 5-5-2008)
§ 53.05 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
Connection Size Annual Charge
Connection Size       Annual Charge
1-inch connection     $9
1-1/4-inch connection $14.06
1-1/2-inch connection $20.25
2-inch connection     $36
3-inch connection     $81
4-inch connection     $144
6-inch connection     $324
8-inch connection     $576
 
(Ord. 1983-2, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 53.06 TEMPORARY USERS.
   Water furnished to temporary users such as contractors, circuses and the
like shall be charged on the basis of the metered gallon rates hereinbefore set
forth, as estimated by the Waterworks Superintendent.
(Ord. 1982-10, passed 11-1-1982)
CHAPTER 54: SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions and Administration
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Compliance with state and federal requirements
   
54.03   Town bylaws and regulations; right to prohibit discharges
   
54.04   No free service; annexation not required for service
   
54.05   Sewer connection required; exception
   
54.06   Tapping fee
   
54.07   Town operates a lagoon system
   
54.08   Private sewage disposal systems
   
54.09   Building sewers
   
54.10   Damaging or tampering with sewage works
   
54.11   Notice of violation; liability
   
54.12   Appeals
Billing and Payment
   
54.25   Responsibility for monthly bill
   
54.26   Due date; payment delinquency
   
54.27   Periodic study to determine rates
   
54.28   Special rate contracts
Discharge Provisions
   
54.40   Unsanitary or untreated discharges, deposits
   
54.41   Unpolluted water discharges
   
54.42   Industrial cooling water discharges
   
54.43   Prohibited discharges to public sewers
   
54.44   Procedures for discharge of prohibited substances
   
54.45   Pretreatment
   
54.46   Interceptors and traps
   
54.47   Duty to notify of unusual, accidental discharges
Observation, Testing and Analysis
   
54.60   Observation, sampling and measurement of wastes
   
54.61   Construction, maintenance of facilities
   
54.62   Sampling, analysis by town or user
   
54.63   Right to enter and inspect
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen, expressed in
milligrams per liter, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory procedures with nitrification inhibition in five days
at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
five feet outside the building wall.
      (1)   BUILDING SANITARY DRAIN. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING STORM DRAIN. A building drain which conveys storm water or
other clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
      (1)   BUILDING SANITARY SEWER. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
      (2)   BUILDING STORM SEWER. A building sewer which conveys storm water or
other clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.
      (1)   Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform
bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the
treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants and in fact does remove
such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE is not
subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates removals in the order
of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order of 10% to 30% are not
considered substantial.
      (2)   Examples of the additional pollutants which may be considered
COMPATIBLE include:
         (a)   Chemical oxygen demand;
         (b)   Total organic carbon;
         (c)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
         (d)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
         (e)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business, as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from
sanitary conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellars,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross- connections from
storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished
from, infiltration.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts, as defined in
standards issued under Pub. Law No. 92-500, § 307(a); or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of service or
groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Has the same meaning as defined in Chapter 55 of
this code.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to Pub. Law No. 92-500, § 402.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
group or other entity.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments:
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges;
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure;
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility; and
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm water, surface water and groundwater are not intentionally
admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, including polluted
cooling water. The two most common types of sewage are:
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any trade or
process carried on in that establishment. This shall include the wastes from
pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water; and
      (2)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilets and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and to dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. It is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, groundwater or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or S.S. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants
which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism, will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological manifestations, as
defined in standards issued pursuant to Pub. Law No. 92-500, § 307(a).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 54.02 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be, in
effect.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 54.03 TOWN BYLAWS AND REGULATIONS; RIGHT TO PROHIBIT DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such bylaws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s sewerage system, pumping stations and sewage conveyance system, for the
construction and use of house sewers and connections to the sewerage system and
for the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such rates and
charges.
   (B)   The town is authorized to prohibit the dumping of wastes into the
town’s sewage system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the sewage treatment works of the town or to require methods
affecting pretreatment of said wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards
included in the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
issued to the sewage works.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 54.04 NO FREE SERVICE; ANNEXATION NOT REQUIRED FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   The Council or town shall not grant free service or use of the sewage
treatment system to any person, group or entity.
   (B)   It is not necessary for an area or parcel of real estate to be annexed
to the town to receive sewage treatment.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 54.05 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (B)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary sewer of the town is hereby required, at his or her expense,
to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer, in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, within 60 days after date of official notice to do so, provided
that said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line. As a condition
of connection to a public sewer, the owner(s) shall grant a right of access
easement to the building sewer to the town for the purposes of repair and
inspection.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.06 TAPPING FEE.
   The owner of any lot, parcel, real estate or building connection to the
sewage works as required in §
54.05(B) of this chapter shall, prior to being permitted to make a connection,
pay a connection charge in the amount of $750, plus the costs of any material
required for each connection. The Town Council finds such a connection charge
to be a reasonable and an equitable pro rata cost of maintenance for the
facilities to date, as well as for the cost for providing a connection to the
sewer, excavation, backfilling, pavement replacement and installation of the
sewer line from the sewer to the property line. In the event that boring under
any street is required for installation, the cost of said boring shall be paid
by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the town from any loss or damage that
may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the connection to the sewage
system.
(Ord. 2000-4, passed 10-2-2000) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.07 TOWN OPERATES A LAGOON SYSTEM.
   The town is operating a lagoon system and not an activated sludge system.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 54.08 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
54.05(B) of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E) The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (F)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.09 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk- Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the town. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector.
      (3)   A permit and inspection fees of $15 for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and $25 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the Clerk-Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify
the town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the said Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and S.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. FD-9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the S.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. FD-9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative. The applicant
shall provide access to all structures (and areas of structures) to the
Superintendent for the purpose of establishing compliance with division (H)
above.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.10 DAMAGING OR TAMPERING WITH SEWAGE WORKS.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating this
section shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.11 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter except
§
54.10, or as otherwise indicated, shall be served by the town with written
notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time
limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the town for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town
by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.12 APPEALS.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approved by the
Town Council, shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure
whereby a user shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Administrator
of the sewage system to the Town Council, and that any decision concerning the
sewage system of the Town Council may be appealed to a court of competent
jurisdiction under the appeal procedures provided for in the state’s
Administrative Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994)
BILLING AND PAYMENT
§ 54.25 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MONTHLY BILL.
   (A)   Rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
   (C)   (1)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but such a billing shall in no way relieve the owner from the liability
in the event payment is not made as herein required.
      (2)   The owners of properties served which are occupied by a tenant or
tenants shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for
the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid by such tenant or
tenants, provided that such examination shall be made at the office at which
said records are kept and during the hours that such office is open for
business.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 54.26 DUE DATE; PAYMENT DELINQUENCY.
   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
or charges shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of
the bill.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 54.27 PERIODIC STUDY TO DETERMINE RATES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for sewage services may be in
proportion to the cost of providing services to the various users or user
classes, the town shall cause a study to be made within one year following the
date on which this chapter goes into effect and at least annually thereafter.
Such study shall include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs
associated with the treatment of excessive strength effluents from industrial
users, volume and delivery flow rate characteristics attributed to the various
users or user classes and the financial position of the sewage works and the
adequacy of its revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and
maintenance, replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements
to the waste treatment systems. The town shall adjust its rates and charges to
reflect the results of the study.
   (B)   Thereafter, on an annual basis, within a reasonable period of time
following the normal accounting period, the town shall cause a similar study to
be made for the purpose of reviewing the proportionality of the rates and
charges for sewage services on a continuing basis.
   (C)   Said studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town
or by a firm of certified public accountants or a firm of consulting engineers,
which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of
officers, employees, certified public accountants or engineers as the town
shall determine to be best under the circumstances. The town shall, upon
completion of said study, revise and adjust the rates and charges as necessary
in accordance therewith in order to maintain the proportionality and
sufficiency of its rates.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 54.28 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the sewage works where clearly definable costs to
the sewage works can be determined, and such rate shall be limited to such
costs. Said contract shall be in compliance with Pub. Law No. 92-500 and 95-
217.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 9-29-1994)
DISCHARGE PROVISIONS
§ 54.40 UNSANITARY OR UNTREATED DISCHARGES, DEPOSITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.41 UNPOLLUTED WATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm waters, surface water, groundwater,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted
industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of unpolluted
waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility.
   (B)   Storm water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made to any sanitary or
storm sewer unless there is capacity available in all downstream sewers, lift
stations, force mains and the sewage treatment plant, including capacity for
BOD and suspended solids.
   (C)   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the state.
Where a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural sewer is not available, such
unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval
by the town.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.42 INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER DISCHARGES.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants, and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
54.41(C) of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.43 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B) Any waters or wastes containing toxic (as described in the Clean Water
Act, § 307A) or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with
any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create
a public nuisance or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage
treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works or interference with any treatment process;
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails,
paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either whole or ground by
garbage grinders;
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters;
   (F)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
   (G)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
   (H)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
      (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities so as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs,” as defined herein.
   (I)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such a degree that the sewage treatment effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.44 PROCEDURES FOR DISCHARGE OF PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in §
54.43 of this chapter, and which, in judgment of the Superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Require new industries (or other large users) or industries (or
other large users) with a significant increase in discharges to submit
information on wastewater quantities and characteristics and obtain prior
approval for discharges;
         (b)   Reject the wastes, in whole or in part, for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
         (c)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage, as defined;
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works; or
         (e)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (B)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with
Chapter 55 of this code.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 54.45 PRETREATMENT.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense. Pretreatment of
industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior to discharge to the
treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and regulations adopted
by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) (40 C.F.R. part
403) and “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants”
(40 C.F.R. part 136), in addition to any more stringent requirements
established by the town and any subsequent state or federal guidelines and
rules and regulations.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.46 INTERCEPTORS AND TRAPS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand
and other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors or traps will not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   All interceptors or traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the town and shall be located so as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. They shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperatures and shall be
of substantial construction, be gas-tight and water-tight and equipped with
easily removal covers. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors
or traps shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in
continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.47 DUTY TO NOTIFY OF UNUSUAL, ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged, accidentally or otherwise, to the
sewer system.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
OBSERVATION, TESTING AND ANALYSIS
§ 54.60 OBSERVATION, SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT OF WASTES.
   (A)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole, together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances, in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Agents of the town, the state’s water pollution control agencies and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
   (B)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole, except for applications for NPDES permits and
reports thereof, which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the USEPA (40 C.F.R. part 136). In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected.
   (C)   (1)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property.
      (2)   The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH is
determined from periodic grab samples.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.61 CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town,
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing is granted.
   (B)   Where such facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the owner at his
or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the town to
determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
applicable federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain
operating records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary report of the
character of the influent and effluent to show the performance of the treatment
facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.62 SAMPLING, ANALYSIS BY TOWN OR USER.
   (A)   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than
residential users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows and
characteristics. Such measurements, tests and analyses shall be made at the
user’s expense. If made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to
the user at the option of the town.
   (B)   (1)   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined for the periodic
establishment of charges, provided for in Chapter 55 of this code, from samples
taken at the aforementioned structure at any period of time and of such
duration and in such a manner as the town may elect, or at any place mutually
agreed upon between the user and the town.
      (2)   Appropriate charges for sampling and analysis may be assessed to
the user at the option of the town. The results of routine sampling and
analysis by the user may also be used for determination of charges after
verification by the town.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 54.63 RIGHT TO ENTER AND INSPECT.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees, and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operations, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
54.60(A) of this chapter.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, any person who shall continue any
violation of this chapter (other than a violation of Section 19(a)) shall be
fined in the amount equal to $500 for each violation. Each day in which any
such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   (1) Any person violating, or suspected of violating, §
54.41(A) of this chapter shall be subjected to a penalty of $50 per month (or
fraction thereof in which the violation occurs).
      (2) A person may void payment of said penalty by consenting to an
inspection, described in §
54.09(J) of this chapter, for the purpose of establishing compliance with §
54.41(A).
      (3)   A person consenting to such an inspection and found in violation
shall be given 90 days to comply with §
54.41(A) without being subject to penalty.
(Ord. 94-09, passed 9-29-1994; Ord. 2000-08, passed 11-6-2000)
CHAPTER 55: SEWER RATES AND CHARGES
Section
   
55.01   Definitions
   
55.02   Charges established by user class
   
55.03   Composition of rates and charges
   
55.04   Metered and unmetered user rates
   
55.05   Monitoring, sampling charge
   
55.06   Usage conditions affecting rates
   
55.07   Sewage strength, character affecting rates
§ 55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. Has the same meaning as defined in
Chapter 54 of this code.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Farmland, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes, as distinct from employee wastes and wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average daily concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 250 milligrams per liter; and
         (b)   S.S. not more than 250 milligrams per liter.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences, as distinct from wastes and from industrial processes.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. Has the same
meaning as defined in
Chapter 54 of this code.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection transport and treatment on
a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. These COSTS include
replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of a
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   SEWAGE. Has the same meaning as defined in Chapter 54 of this code.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this chapter
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers,
incorporated in this code in
Chapter 54.
   SHALL. It is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or S.S. Has the same meaning as defined in
Chapter 54 of this code.
   TOWN. The Town of Farmland, Indiana, acting by and through the Town Council.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the cost of operation and maintenance of such works pursuant to Pub. Law No.
92-500, § 204(b).
   USER CLASS. The division of water treatment customers by source, function,
waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities (that is,
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional and governmental in the user
charge system).
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service which, based on a determination by the town,
discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility that
discharges industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious, and/or educational function which, based on a
determination by the town, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
all dwelling units and the like.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and commercial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 55.02 CHARGES ESTABLISHED BY USER CLASS.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said sewage works shall be
charged for the services provided. These charges are established for each user
class, as defined, in order that the sewage works shall recover from each user
and user class revenue which is proportional to its use of the treatment works
in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray the cost of
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment works. User
charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency. Replacement costs, which are
recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected
service life of the sewage works equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works, for the purpose
of this chapter, shall be as follows:
 
Class 1 Residential
Class 2 Commercial
Class 3 Governmental/institutional
Class 4 Industrial
 
(Ord. 94-08, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 55.03 COMPOSITION OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   For the use of and the service rendered by the sewage works, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town sanitary system or
otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other
liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewerage system of
the town. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 55.04 METERED AND UNMETERED USER RATES.
   (A)   For the effective billing date, which is the later of: (1) May 1,
2016; or (2) the first day of the month immediately following the commencement
of construction, and thereafter, the sewage rate shall be as follows:
      (1)   Metered users.
 
Base charge                    $3.20
Debt service                   $6.55
Minimum (2,500 gallons)        $29.82
Unmetered rate (4,000 gallons) $45.80
User charge                    $4.10
NOTES TO TABLE:
Subject to a minimum monthly rate of $29.82
 
      (2)   Unmetered users. All non-metered users shall be charged a base flat
rate of $45.80, based upon 4,000 gallons.
   (B)   For the service rendered to the town, said town shall be subject to
the same rates and charges as herein provided.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 9-29-1994; Ord. 2016-2, passed 3-30-2016)
§ 55.05 MONITORING, SAMPLING CHARGE.
   In order to recover the cost of monitoring industrial wastes, the town shall
charge the user the actual cost of monitoring, but not less than $25 per
sampling event. This charge will be reviewed on the same basis as all other
rates and charges in this chapter.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 55.06 USAGE CONDITIONS AFFECTING RATES.
   (A)   The quantity of water discharged into the sanitary sewerage system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determined by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the sewage service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except, as
is hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances in
determining the sewage bill for quantities of water shown on the records to be
consumed but which are also shown, to the satisfaction of the town, that such
quantities do not enter the sanitary sewerage system.
   (B)   (1)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building
discharging sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the
town sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is not a user of
water supplied by the water utility serving the town and the water used thereon
or therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a meter not
acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town.
      (2)   In order to ascertain the rate or charge provided in this chapter,
the owner or other interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and
maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and
approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for determination of
sewage discharge.
   (C)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharging
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids in the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, is a user of water
supplied by the water utility serving the town, and in addition, is a user of
water from another source which is not measured by a water meter or is measured
by a meter not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be
otherwise measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rates
or charges, the owner or other interested party shall, at his or her expense,
install and maintain meters, weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any
adequate and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for
determination of sewage discharge.
   (D)   In the event two or more residential lots, parcels of real estate or
buildings discharging sanitary sewage, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, are users of water and
the quantity of water is measured by a single water meter, then in each such
case, billing shall be for a single service in the manner set out elsewhere
herein. A DWELLING UNIT shall be interpreted as a room or rooms, or any other
space or spaces, in which cooking facilities are provided.
   (E)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town’s
sanitary sewerage system, either directly or indirectly, and uses water in
excess of 10,000 gallons per month, and it can be shown to the satisfaction of
the town that a portion of water, as measured by the water meter or meters,
does not and cannot enter the sanitary sewerage system, then the owner or other
interested party shall, at his or her expense, install and maintain meters,
weirs, volumetric measuring devices or any adequate and approved method of
measurement acceptable to the town for the determination of sewerage discharge.
   (F)   Where a metered water supply is used for fire protection as well as
for other uses, the town may, in its discretion, make adjustments in the user
charge as may be equitable.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 9-29-1994)
§ 55.07 SEWAGE STRENGTH, CHARACTER AFFECTING RATES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be proportionately adjusted to
the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges not only on the
volume, but also on the strength and character of the stronger-than-normal
domestic sewage and shall require the user to determine the strength and
content of all sewage and wastes discharged in such manner, and by such method,
as the town may deem practicable in order to determine the proper charge. The
user shall furnish a central sampling point, available to the town at all
times.
   (B)   (1)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a
biochemical oxygen demand of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended
solids in excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for
treating stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made on the following
basis.
         (a)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.03 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid.
         (b)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional
charge of $0.03 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in
excess of 250 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   The determination of suspended solids and five-day Biochemical
Oxygen Demand contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the latest
copy of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial
Wastes, as written by the American Public Health Association, the American
Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation, and in
conformance with “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants,” regulation C.F.R. part 136, published in the Federal Register on
October 16, 1973.
(Ord. 94-08, passed 9-29-1994)
CHAPTER 56: STORM WATER SYSTEM; RATES AND CHARGES
Section
General Provisions
   
56.01   Definitions
   
56.02   Connection to system required; inspection of connections
   
56.03   Tapping fee
   
56.04   No free service; annexation not required for service
   
56.05   Billing and collection; payment delinquency
   
56.06   Periodic study to determine rates
   
56.07   Town rules and regulations; right to prohibit dumping
   
56.08   Substances other than storm water prohibited
   
56.09   Appeals
Rates and Charges
   
56.20   Charges established by user class
   
56.21   Charges based on impervious area, system costs
   
56.22   Rates and charges for users
   
56.23   Special rate contracts
   
56.24   Final inspection fee
   
56.25   Conditions affecting rates
   
56.26   Effective date of rates, charges
 
   
56.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 56.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. Has the same meaning as defined in Chapter
54 of this code.
   COMMERCIAL STORM WATER SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to
commercial users for treating storm water in excess of normal residential storm
water discharge.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Farmland, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting on its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bonds or other long-term capital debt.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT or ERU. One ERU shall be equivalent to 3,600
square feet of impervious material for each residential user. Unless otherwise
noted, each residential user shall be charged a base rate of one ERU per
residential customer unless otherwise indicated.
   IMPERVIOUS MATERIAL. Material that prohibits the direct passage or
penetration of precipitation directly into the soil or ground, and shall
include gravel. Said material shall be human-made and placed so that
precipitation shall be diverted or collected rather than have a direct passage
to the ground. Ponds or retention pools designed for the collection of storm
water shall not be included in this definition.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, trade or
business processes, as distinct from employee wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   INITIAL CONNECTION PERIOD. Any time after substantial completion of the
storm water system, as determined by the agreement between the town and the
contractor constructing the system, and the date that the users are notified of
substantial completion.
   NORMAL RESIDENTIAL STORM WATER DISCHARGE. For the purpose of determining
surcharges, storm water that is normal for a residential user or building.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. Has the same
meaning as defined in Chapter 54 of this code.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Include all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate storm water collection, transportation and
management on a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters
that conform with all related federal, state and local requirements. These
COSTS shall include replacement.
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other that user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
storm water system to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
system was designed and constructed.
   SHALL. It is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   STORM WATER. Water which is received by the town and its residents from
precipitation that occurs as a result of climatic changes and storm events.
   STORM WATER SEWAGE SYSTEM. The entire storm water collection and discharge
system for the town as set forth in this chapter.
   STORM WATER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this
chapter which regulates the connection to and use of public and private storm
water sewer systems, incorporated into this code in
Chapter 54.
   TOWN. The Town of Farmland, Indiana, acting by and through the Town Council.
   USER CLASS. The division of storm water customers by source, function,
characteristics and process or discharge similarities (that is, residential,
multi-family residential, mobile home park, commercial, industrial,
institutional and governmental in the user charge system).
      (1)   NONRESIDENTIAL USER. Any user of a structure that is not a single-
family residence. Those users shall include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any establishment involved in a commercial
enterprise, business or service based on a determination by the town;
         (b)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local governmental user
of the storm water system;
         (c)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any manufacturing or processing facility;
         (d)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment involved in a social,
charitable, religious and/or educational function based on a determination by
the town;
         (e)   MOBILE HOME PARK USER. An area on which at least two mobile
homes, other than mobile homes on permanent foundations, are harbored on
temporary supports for the purpose of being occupied as principal residences;
and
         (f)   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the storm water system
whose premises or building is used as a multi-family residence.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the storm water system whose premises
or building is used primarily as a single-family residence for one or more
persons. Any residence that also conducts a home-based business shall be
considered to be a nonresidential user and not eligible for the residential
user rate.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and commercial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
§ 56.02 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED; INSPECTION OF CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Each improved lot, parcel or user shall be obligated to use the storm
water system. Each improved lot, parcel or user may connect any pump, downspout
or other storm water collection device in a manner that shall not permit any
waste other than rainfall or other precipitation to be placed in the system.
Any and all connections to the storm water system shall be inspected by the
town prior to their use.
   (B)   (1)   All connections to the storm water system shall be assessed an
inspection fee, as set forth in this chapter, and completed not more that 90
days after substantial completion of the entire system and notification by the
town (“initial connection time period”).
      (2)   Any new or delinquent connection to the storm water system after
the initial connection time period shall be assessed a late fee and inspection
fee as per this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.03 TAPPING FEE.
   The town may charge a fee for each initial connection to the storm water
system made by any property owner or other person. Said fee shall be designated
as a “storm water tap-in fee” and shall be in addition to any costs for
service, work or materials to connect with the town’s storm water system.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
§ 56.04 NO FREE SERVICE; ANNEXATION NOT REQUIRED FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   The Council shall not grant free service or use of the storm water
system to any person, group or entity.
   (B)   It is not necessary for an area or parcel of real estate to be annexed
to the town to receive storm water system services.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
§ 56.05 BILLING AND COLLECTION; PAYMENT DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the town
in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly.
      (2)   The rates and charges for all users shall be billed to and paid by
the owner of the property.
      (3)   As is provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due
are hereby declared to be delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
shall be paid is now fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the bill.
   (C)   In the event that it is necessary to institute any proceedings to
collect any past due amount, then the owner of the property shall be
responsible for all collection costs, fees, reasonable attorney fees, court
costs or other expenses incurred by the town.
   (D)   Delinquent storm water fees and penalties shall constitute a lien
against the real property against which the user fees have been imposed. Such
liens shall be certified to the County Auditor and collected as provided in
I.C. 36-9-23-32.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.06 PERIODIC STUDY TO DETERMINE RATES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges for storm water services may be in
proportion to the cost of providing services to the various users or user
classes, the town may cause a study to be made from time to time. Such study
may include, but not be limited to, an analysis of the costs associated with
the collecting, controlling and discharging of the storm water volume, delivery
flow rate characteristics attributed to the various users or user classes and
the financial position of the storm water utility and the adequacy of its
revenue to provide reasonable funds for the operation and maintenance,
replacements, debt service requirements and capital improvements to the storm
water systems. The town may adjust its rates and charges to reflect the results
of the study.
   (B)   Said studies shall be conducted by officers or employees of the town
or by a firm of certified public accountants or a firm of consulting engineers,
which firms shall have experience in such studies, or by such combination of
officers, employees, certified public accountants or engineers as the town
shall determine to be best under the circumstances. The town may, upon
completion of said study, revise and adjust rates and charges as necessary in
accordance therewith in order to maintain the proportionality and sufficiency
of the rates.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
§ 56.07 TOWN RULES AND REGULATIONS; RIGHT TO PROHIBIT DUMPING.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
town’s storm water system and storm water conveyance system, for the
construction and use of storm water and for the regulation, collection,
rebating and refunding of such rates and charges.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit the dumping of wastes into
the town’s storm water system which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to
the operation of the storm water system works of the town.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.08 SUBSTANCES OTHER THAN STORM WATER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or entity to place any waste
material, oil, sludge, paint, varnish or any other substance other than storm
water into the storm water collection system. The town may enforce this section
by injunction.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.09 APPEALS.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town after approval of the Town
Council shall, among other things, provide for an appeal procedure whereby a
user shall have the right to appeal a decision concerning user charges of the
Town Council and may be appealed to a court of competent jurisdiction under the
appeal procedures provided for in the state’s Administrative Adjudication Act.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 56.20 CHARGES ESTABLISHED BY USER CLASS.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by said storm water system
shall be charged for services provided. These charges are established for each
user class, as defined, in order that the storm water system shall recover from
each user and user class revenue which is proportional to its use of the
treatment works in terms of volume and load. User charges are levied to defray
the cost of operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the treatment
works. User charges shall be uniform in magnitude within a user class.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
federal and state agencies. Replacement costs, which are recovered through the
system of user charges, shall be based upon the expected service life of the
storm water system appurtenances.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the treatment works, for the purposes
of this chapter, shall be as follows:
 
Class 1      Residential
Class 2      Nonresidential
   Class 2Multi-family residential/mobile home park
   Class 2Commercial
   Class 2Governmental/institutional
   Class 2Industrial
   Class 2All other nonresidential users
 
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
§ 56.21 CHARGES BASED ON IMPERVIOUS AREA, SYSTEM COSTS.
   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably adjusted to
the service rendered to users, the town shall base its charges only on the
square feet of impervious area, as well as the costs for operation and
maintenance of the storm water system.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
§ 56.22 RATES AND CHARGES FOR USERS.
   For the use of and the service rendered by the storm water system, rates and
charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every lot, parcel of
real estate or building that is connected with the town storm water system or
otherwise discharges liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the storm
water system of the town. Such rates and charges include user charges, debt
service costs, excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which
rates and charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an
amount determinable as follows.
   (A)   The storm water rates and charges shall be based on the quantity of
water discharged on or in the property or premises subject to such rates and
charges, as calculated by the town. For the purpose of billing and collecting
the charges for storm water service, the usage schedule on which the amount of
said rates and charges shall be determined is as follows:
      (1)   Residential users.
 
Base Rate Per Month for Residential Users, Class 1
User Type         Class   Details   Charge for Each ERU
Residential users Class 1 All users $2
 
      (2)   Nonresidential users.
 
Base Rate Per Month for Nonresidential Users, Class 2
User Type                         Class     Details         Charge for Each ERU
Multi-family residential users,   Class 2.1 Per mobile home $2
mobile home park users
Commercial users                  Class 2.2 All users       $2
Governmental users, institutional Class 2.3 All users       $2
users
Industrial users                  Class 2.4 All users       $2
All other nonresidential users    Class 2.5 All users       $2
 
   (B)   For service rendered to the town, said town shall be subject to the
same rates and charges hereinabove provided.
   (C)   All residential and nonresidential users shall be assessed a minimum
monthly base fee of $2. In the event that the actual quantity of the square
footage of impervious material is less than 3,600 square feet, the minimum rate
shall apply.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
§ 56.23 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the storm water system where clearly definable
costs to the storm water system can be determined, and such rate shall be
limited to such costs.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
§ 56.24 FINAL INSPECTION FEE.
   The inspection fee shall be $5 for a final inspection of any and all
connections to the storm water system.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
§ 56.25 CONDITIONS AFFECTING RATES.
   (A)   The quantity of storm water discharged into the storm water system and
obtained from sources other than the utility that serves the town shall be
determine by the town in such manner as the town shall reasonably elect, and
the storm water service shall be billed at the above appropriate rates; except,
as is hereinafter provided in this section, the town may make proper allowances
in determining the storm water bill for quantities of water shown on the
records to be consumed, but which are also shown to the satisfaction of the
town that such quantities do not actually flow from the property.
   (B)   In the event a lot, parcel of real estate or building discharges
sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the town storm
water system, either directly or indirectly, or is otherwise not acceptable to
the town storm water system, then the user shall be assessed any and all costs,
fines, penalties, attorney fees and any other expense associated with the
improper discharge into the storm water system.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
56.99
§ 56.26 EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES, CHARGES.
   The rates and charges as herein set forth became effective on June 1, 2013.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
§ 56.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person that shall violate this chapter may be fined in an amount
not to exceed $2,500 per violation. Each day that a violation exists shall be
considered to be a separate violation.
   (B)   In the event that the town shall be required to enforce this chapter
by seeking redress in the Circuit Court, the person, firm or entity to which
the enforcement action is directed shall pay all costs associated with the
enforcement action, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees,
court costs, witness fees or other costs.
(Ord. 2013-04, passed - -2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING AND LOADING
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Safety belt standards
   
70.02   Travel restriction levels due to snow, other hazards
   
70.03   Leaving operating vehicles unattended
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 SAFETY BELT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Except as otherwise provided in I.C. 9-13-2, a vehicle
that is self- propelled. The term does not include a “farm tractor” or an
“implement of husbandry.”
   (B)   General vehicle occupants.
      (1)   Each occupant of a motor vehicle shall be equipped with a safety
belt that:
         (a)   Meets the standards stated in the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standard Number 208 (49 C.F.R. § 571.208); and
         (b)   Is standard equipment installed by the manufacturer.
      (2)   Each occupant shall have the safety belt properly fastened about
the occupant’s body at all times when the vehicle is in forward motion.
   (C)   Exemptions for passenger restraint systems for adults. This section
does not apply to an occupant of a motor vehicle who meets any of the following
conditions:
      (1)   For medical reasons, should not wear safety belts, provided the
occupant has written documentation of the medical reasons from a physician;
      (2)   Is a child required to be restrained by a child restraint system
under I.C. 9-19-11;
      (3)   Is traveling in a commercial or a United States Postal Service
vehicle that makes frequent stops for the purpose of pickup or delivery of
goods or services;
      (4)   Is a rural carrier of the United States Postal Service and is
operating a vehicle while serving a rural postal route;
      (5)   Is a newspaper motor route carrier or newspaper bundle hauler who
stops to make deliveries from a vehicle;
      (6)   Is a driver examiner designated and appointed under I.C. 9-14-2-
3 and is conducting an examination of an applicant for a permit or license
under I.C. 9-24-10;
      (7)   Is an occupant of a farm truck being used on a farm in connection
with agricultural pursuits that are usual and normal to the farming operation,
as set forth in I.C. 9-29-5-13(b)(2);
      (8)   Is an occupant of a motor vehicle participating in a parade;
      (9)   Is an occupant of the living quarters area of a recreational
vehicle;
      (10)   Is an occupant of the treatment area of an ambulance (as defined
in I.C. 16-18-2-13);
      (11)   Is an occupant of the sleeping area of a tractor;
      (12)   Is an occupant other than the operator of a vehicle described in
I.C. 9-20-11-1(1);
      (13)   Is an occupant other than the operator of a truck on a
construction site;
      (14)   Is a passenger other than the operator in a cab of a Class A
recovery vehicle or a Class B recovery vehicle who is being transported in the
cab because the motor vehicle of the passenger is being towed by the recovery
vehicle; or
      (15)   Is an occupant other than the operator of a motor vehicle being
used by a public utility in an emergency as set forth in I.C. 9-20-6-5.
   (D)   Child passenger restraints. A person who operates a motor vehicle in
which there is a child less than eight years of age who is not properly
fastened and restrained according to the child restraint system manufacturer’s
instructions by a child restraint system commits a Class D infraction. A person
may not be found to have violated this division (D) if the person carries a
certificate from a physician, physician’s assistant, or advanced practice nurse
stating that it would be impractical to require that a child be fastened and
restrained by a child restraint system because of any of the following, and
presents the certificate to the police officer or the court:
      (1)   A physical condition of the child, including physical deformity; or
      (2)   A medical condition of the child.
(Ord. 2002-02, passed 2-4-2002) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Child passenger safety laws, see I.C. 9-19-11-2
   Use of safety belt by motor vehicle occupants, see I.C. 9-19-10-2
§ 70.02 TRAVEL RESTRICTION LEVELS DUE TO SNOW, OTHER HAZARDS.
   (A)   The Town Marshal may declare one of the three declarations of
emergency as set out in division (B) below.
   (B)   There shall be three classifications of snow situations or conditions
to control highway use.
      (1)   Travel advisory/watch. Routine travel or activities may be
restricted in areas because of hazardous situations (such as blowing and
drifting snow, icy roadways, flooding, downed trees or poles and the like);
citizens should drive with caution or avoid these areas. Schools and businesses
may begin to implement their emergency action plans.
      (2)   Travel warning. Travel conditions have developed that are
threatening to the safety of the public. Only essential travel is recommended
(such as to and from work, for medical reasons, home necessities or other
emergency situations). Emergency action plans have been or should be
implemented by businesses, schools, government agencies and other
organizations.
      (3)   Travel emergency. A state of emergency has been declared by the
Town Marshal. Travel is restricted to emergency personnel. All roadways are
closed, and no one should be out during these conditions. No nonemergency
vehicles shall be on the roadways. Further restrictions may be included in the
declaration.
   (C)   The town will not be held liable for any damage done to any vehicle
that has impaired the clearing of any roadway.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 4-5-2010) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 LEAVING OPERATING VEHICLES UNATTENDED.
   No person, persons or corporation shall allow any motor vehicle to be
unattended upon the streets or alleys of the town when any motor, engine or
mechanical device that is operated by diesel, gasoline or electricity is
operating.
(Ord. 1987-7, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any individual who is convicted of a violation of §
70.01(B) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in the sum of $25.
      (2)   A person who is at least 16 years of age and violates §
70.01(B) commits a Class D infraction.
   (C)   Any person, persons or corporation found guilty of a violation of §
70.02 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §
70.03 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C infraction.
(Ord. 1987-7, passed - -; Ord. 2002-02, passed 2-4-2002; Ord. 2010-03, passed
4-5-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Failure of front seat occupant to use belt; violation, see I.C. 9-19-10-8
CHAPTER 71: PARKING AND LOADING
Section
Parking
   
71.01   Parking orientation and distance requirements
   
71.02   Sidewalk, parkway or curb parking
   
71.03   No parking areas designated
   
71.04   Inoperable vehicle parking
   
71.05   Prohibited parking areas; exception
   
71.06   Handicapped parking
Loading
   
71.20   Definition
   
71.21   Loading zones and passenger zones designated
   
71.22   Passenger zone loading, unloading time limit
 
   
71.99   Penalty
PARKING
§ 71.01 PARKING ORIENTATION AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked on the left side of such vehicle next to
the curb except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stop or park
any vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two
right wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established
curbline, except that upon those streets that have been marked for angle
parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to curb indicated by such marks.
   (B)   All parked vehicles on two-way streets must be parked to the right of
the roadway near the curb headed north when parked on the east side, south when
parked on the west side, east when parked on the south side and west when
parked on the north side.
(Ord. 1987-7, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 SIDEWALK, PARKWAY OR CURB PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park on any sidewalk, parkway or curb.
(Ord. 1987-7, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 NO PARKING AREAS DESIGNATED.
   No person shall park or permit to be parked any motor vehicle in a no
parking area designated by signs and yellow-painted curbing.
(Ord. 1987-7, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 INOPERABLE VEHICLE PARKING.
   No person shall park or permit any inoperable motor vehicle, trailer or
camper registered in his or her name to be parked on any street or alley for a
longer consecutive period of time than 48 hours.
(Ord. 1987-7, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PROHIBITED PARKING AREAS; EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to stop, stand or park
the same at any time for any purpose in any of the following places, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control sign or signal:
   (A)   Within an intersection;
   (B)   On a crosswalk;
   (C)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 20 feet of the
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone unless the
Police Department shall indicate a different length by proper signs;
   (D)   Within 25 feet from the intersection of curblines;
   (E)   Within 30 feet upon the approach of any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of the roadway;
   (F)   Within 15 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
   (G)   Within 15 feet of any fire hydrant;
   (H)   In front of any private driveway;
   (I)   On a sidewalk;
   (J)   Alongside of or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (K)   Alongside of or opposite any parked vehicle (commonly known as “double
parking”); or
   (L)   Upon any bridge or under any elevation within the town limits.
(Ord. 1987-7, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSON or HANDICAPPED. Either having a physical
condition requiring the use of a wheelchair, artificial limb, crutch, cane or
walker, or having a physical disease making it difficult or impossible to walk
more than 25 feet without shortness of breath or danger of impairment of
health. A certificate by a person licensed to practice the healing arts in the
state shall be acceptable by the town as evidence under this section.
   (B)   Spaces designated, marked.
      (1)   For every 20 parking spaces in front of or adjacent to any public
building in the town, there shall be at least one parking space for physically
handicapped persons, which space shall be distinctly marked with either the
international wheelchair parking sign and/or clearly marked and designated
pavement of the parking stall or space displaying the international wheelchair
sign or some similar designation.
      (2)   Any further signs or designated parking spaces shall be created
upon the showing of need and upon the recommendation of the Town Council, which
shall include, but not be limited to, church parking lots, library parking lots
and other town parking spaces.
      (3)   The town shall provide for signs to be erected designating such
parking spaces, which signs shall be adjacent to and visible from such parking
stalls.
   (C)   Parking restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or
leave standing any vehicle in a parking stall or parking space designated for
physically handicapped persons if, immediately adjacent to and visible from
such stall or space, there is posted a sign known as the international
wheelchair symbol, consisting of a profile view of a stylized wheelchair with
occupant in white on a blue background, or the designation of such sign is on
the pavement of the parking stall or space, unless the driver of the vehicle or
passenger of the vehicle is handicapped as defined herein.
   (D)   Signs to conform to standards. It is further ordained that the signs
to be erected shall conform to the manual on traffic-control device standards
for designating handicap parking and shall be erected in a manner that does not
create a traffic hazard.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-2-1996) Penalty, see §
71.99
LOADING
§ 71.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING. The removal of goods from or putting goods onto a
truck, trailer, wagon, tractor or a vehicle shall be considered loading or
unloading when the driver of such vehicle is physically present or within 100
feet of said vehicle when it is running or operating.
(Ord. 1987-7, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 LOADING ZONES AND PASSENGER ZONES DESIGNATED.
   The town police shall determine and designate passenger zones and loading
zones.
(Ord. 1987-7, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 PASSENGER ZONE LOADING, UNLOADING TIME LIMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to stop, stand or park
the same for a longer period of time than is necessary for the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers in any place designated and marked as a
passenger zone.
(Ord. 1987-7, passed - -) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
71.01 through
71.05 or
71.20 through
71.22 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C infraction.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
71.06 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for
each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which the violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1987-7, passed - -; Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-2-1996)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Golf cart use regulated
   
72.03   Operator requirements
   
72.04   Financial responsibility
   
72.05   Time of operation
   
72.06   Place of operation
   
72.07   Occupant restrictions, requirements
   
72.08   Compliance with motor vehicle traffic rules
   
72.09   Slow moving vehicle sign
   
72.10   Liability of parents or guardians
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by this
state or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle originally designed for operation on a golf course and
powered by a battery or internal combustion engine.
   VEHICLE. Any device or machine that transports persons, animals or property.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 72.02 GOLF CART USE REGULATED.
   The operation of a golf cart within the town is strictly prohibited unless
the golf cart is operated and equipped in full compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009) Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.03 OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   Only persons at least 16 years of age and holding a driver’s license may
operate a golf cart on a street or alley in the town.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009) Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.04 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The operator of a golf cart must be in possession of proof of financial
responsibility at all times while operating a golf cart in the town.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009) Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 TIME OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts shall not be operated on a town street or alley between one-half
hour before sunset and one-half hour after sunrise unless the golf cart is
equipped with two operating headlights (one on each side of the front of the
golf cart) and two operating taillights with brake lights (one on each side of
the rear of the golf cart) which are visible from a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009) Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.06 PLACE OF OPERATION.
   Golf carts may be operated on town streets and alleys within the town,
subject to the following: golf carts may not be operated on sidewalks or on
State Highway 32 (Main Street) or State Highway 1, except to cross said
highways at intersections in a path 90 degrees to said highways.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009) Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.07 OCCUPANT RESTRICTIONS, REQUIREMENTS.
   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number of
persons for whom factory seating is installed and provided on the golf cart.
The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart at all times,
and no parts of the bodies of the operator or any occupant shall extend outside
the perimeter of the golf cart while the golf cart is being operated.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009) Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.08 COMPLIANCE WITH MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC RULES.
   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and by the town which govern the operation of
motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009) Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.09 SLOW MOVING VEHICLE SIGN.
   All golf carts must display on the back of the golf cart a “slow moving
vehicle” sign of the same type required under state law for display on slow
moving vehicles.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009) Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.10 LIABILITY OF PARENTS OR GUARDIANS.
   No person shall permit his or her minor child or ward to operate a golf cart
in violation of this subchapter. In the event that a minor is found to be
operating a golf cart within the town limits, there shall be a rebuttable
presumption that the minor child was operating the golf cart with the
permission and knowledge of his or her parent or guardian.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 11-2-2009) Penalty, see § 72.99
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop streets and alleys
      
III.   One-way traffic
      
IV.   Vehicle size restrictions
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The following streets in the town are hereby declared to have the
following speed limits:
Right-of-Way Speed Limit (mph)
Right-of-Way                                                  Speed Limit (mph)
Angle Road                                                    20
Beechwood Drive                                               20
Church Street                                                 20
East Elm Street                                               20
East Henry Street                                             20
East Jackson Street between its intersection with Wolf Street 30
and the eastern corporate limit of the town
East Jackson Street from its intersection with North Main     thirty (20)
Street to Wolf Street
East Pursley Street                                           20
East Short Street                                             20
East Williams Street                                          20
Fire Street                                                   20
Gym Street                                                    20
Lone Oak Drive                                                20
Mae Avenue                                                    20
New York Street                                               20
North East Street                                             20
North Hickory Street                                          20
North Main Street from Jackson Street North to the town       40
limits
North Morris Street                                           20
North Mulberry Street                                         20
North Olive Street                                            20
North Plum Street                                             20
North Pursley Street                                          20
North Wall Street                                             20
South Mulberry Street                                         20
South Olive Street                                            20
South Plum Street                                             20
South Street                                                  20
West Elm Street                                               20
West Henry Street                                             20
West Jackson Street                                           40
West Pursley Street                                           20
West Walnut Street                                            20
West Williams Street                                          20
Wolf Street                                                   20
 
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
      (2)   Any person, company or corporation violating any provision of
division (A) above shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, shall
be fined in a sum of not less than $1 and not more than $100, plus court costs.
(Ord. 1993-10, passed 2-7-1993; Ord. 98-14, passed 11-16-1998; Ord. 2013-09,
passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2014-04, passed 6-2-2014)
SCHEDULE II. STOP STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Stop streets. The following streets in the town are hereby ordained to
be “stop streets,” to wit:
Intersection Details
Intersection                                                       Details
Alley from State Road 1 at the intersection with North Pursley     1-way stop
Street
Angling Road (the street known as Dobbs Lane) at the intersection  1-way stop
with Henry Street
Beechwood Drive at the intersection with Wolf Street               1-way stop
Church Street at the intersection with Morris Street               1-way stop
East Jackson Street at the intersection with Mae Avenue            3-way stop
East Jackson Street at the intersection with Morris Street         3-way stop
East Street at the intersection with Jackson Street                1-way stop
East Street at the intersection with New York Street               1-way stop
Elm Street at the intersection with Mulberry Street                1-way stop
Elm Street at the intersection with South Plum Street              1-way stop
Gym Street at the intersection with East Church Street             1-way stop
Gym Street at the intersection with Pursley Street                 1-way stop
Henry Street at the intersection with Plum Street                  4-way stop
Hickory Street at the intersection with Williams Street            1-way stop
Lone Oak Drive at the intersection with Mae Street                 1-way stop
Lone Oak Drive at the intersection with Wolf Street                1-way stop
Mae Avenue at the intersection with East Jackson Street            2-way stop
Mae Drive at the intersection with Lone Oak Drive                  1-way stop
Morris Street at the intersection with East Jackson Street         3-way stop
Morris Street at the intersection with Jackson Street              1-way stop
Morris Street at the intersection with Williams Street             1-way stop
Mulberry Street at the intersection with Henry Street              4-way stop
New York Street at the intersection with North Pursley Street      1-way stop
North Olive Street at the intersection of West Williams Street     1-way stop
Olive Street at the intersection with Walnut Street                1-way stop
Plum Street at the intersection with Henry Street                  4-way stop
Plum Street at the intersection with Jackson Street                1-way stop
Pursley Street at the intersection with Jackson Street             1-way stop
Pursley Street at the intersection with Morris Street              1-way stop
Pursley Street at the intersection with Plum Street                1-way stop
Short Street at the intersection with South Plum Street            3-way stop
South Plum Street at the intersection with Road 100 North          1-way stop
South Plum Street at the intersection with Short Street            3-way stop
South Street at the intersection with Plum Street                  1-way stop
Wall Street at the intersection with Church Street                 1-way stop
Wall Street at the intersection with Pursley Street                1-way stop
Walnut Street at the intersection of South Mulberry Street         3-way stop
West Pursley Street at the intersection with Hickory Street        2-way stop
West Pursley Street at the intersection with North Mulberry Street 1-way stop
West Pursley Street at the intersection with North Olive Street    1-way stop
Williams Street at the intersection of Mulberry Street             1-way stop
Williams Street at the intersection of Plum Street                 1-way stop
Wolf Street at the intersection at East Jackson Street             1-way stop
 
   (B)   Stop alleys. Alley rights-of-way are established as follows, to wit:
 
Alley Location                        Details
Alleys running in a northerly or      General stop alley for traffic flowing in
southernly directions                 an easternly or westerly direction
North of West Williams Street between Stop alley for traffic flowing in an
North Main Street and North Mulberry  easterly direction
Street
 
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
      (2)   Any persons, company or corporations violating division (A) above
shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, shall be fined a sum of
not more than $50 and not less than $10, plus court costs or the applicable
fine imposed by Winchester City Court at that time.
(Ord. 1993-03, passed 7-6-1993; Ord. 96-09, passed 9-9-1996; Ord. 2006-03,
passed 5-1-2006; Ord. 2007-01, passed 2-5-2007)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY TRAFFIC.
   (A)   One-way alleys designated.
      (1)   This division (A) shall prescribe one-way alleys within the town
for regulating the flow of traffic on the certain alleys within the town. It
shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street or alley designated as a
one-way street or alley by this division (A) in any direction other than that
so designated.
         (a)   The alley on the south side of the town fire station shall be
designated for one-way traffic from Fire Street to Plum Street.
         (b)   The alley on the north side of the town fire station shall be
designated for one-way traffic (east) from Plum Street to Fire Street.
      (2)   The Town Marshal, or any person designated by the Council, shall
post or cause to be posted suitable signs for both one-way alleys.
   (B)   Additional one-way alley.
      (1)   The first alley south of Henry Street in the town shall be declared
to be a one-way alley in the easterly direction between State Road 32 and South
Plum Street, said alley being the alley which runs along the north side of Lot
137 and Lot 138 of the original plat of the town and along the south side of
Lots 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135 and 136 of the original plat of the
town.
      (2)   No person shall operate any vehicle in a westerly direction on the
first alley south of Henry Street between State Road 32 and South Plum Street
in the town, said alley being the alley which runs along the north side of Lot
137 and Lot 138 of the original plat of the town and along the south side of
Lots 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135 and 136 of the original plat of the
town.
   (C)   One-way parking lot. The town parking lot in the alley located on the
east side of the City Building, which is more specifically described as Lot 132
in the original plat of the town, shall now be designated as a one-way alley
traveling from south to north for the purposes of traffic flow.
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of division (A) above
shall be guilty of a Class C infraction as defined in I.C. 34-4-32-4(c) and,
upon conviction, shall be fined accordingly.
      (3)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity violating the terms
and provisions of division (B) above shall be guilty of a Class B infraction.
      (4)   Any person, company or corporation violating any provisions of
division (C) above shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, shall
be fined in a sum of not less than $1 and not more than $100.
(Ord. -, passed 8-4-1986; Ord. 98-13, passed 11-16-1998; Ord. 2000-02, passed
7-3-2000)
SCHEDULE IV. VEHICLE SIZE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions. No person, persons or corporation shall operate or cause
to be operated any truck, trailer, wagon, tractor or any motor vehicle, or any
combination of the foregoing, on the following streets in the town should the
length of the vehicle, or any combination of any of the foregoing, have a
combined length of over 19 feet, or a vehicle which weighs and/or is licensed
to carry over 26,000 pounds, as evidenced by its gross vehicle weight:
      (1)   Henry Street;
      (2)   Plum Street;
      (3)   North Mulberry Street;
      (4)   North Olive Street; or
      (5)   North Hickory Street.
   (B)   Exception. It is an exception to this schedule if the person, persons
or corporation is operating a vehicle on Henry Street, Plum Street, North
Mulberry Street, North Olive Street or North Hickory Street for the sole
purpose of making a local delivery to a business located within the corporation
limits of the town.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
      (2)   Any person, persons or corporation found guilty of a violation of
division (A) above shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 2006-07, passed 10-2-2006)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
      
II.   Parallel or angle parking
      
III.   Handicapped parking
      
IV.   Fifteen-minute parking
      
V.   Snow emergency restrictions
      
VI.   Vehicle size restrictions
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   (A)   Rights-of-way. The following streets in the town are ordained to be
“no parking” zones, to wit:
      (1)   Each side of Fire Street;
      (2)   East side of East Street;
      (3)   East side of Gym Street from East Pursley to Church Street;
      (4)   East side of Mulberry Street between Williams Street and Henry
Street;
      (5)   East side of North Plum Street from New York Central Railroad
tracks to Jackson Street;
      (6)   East side of 25 North Pursley Street;
      (7)   East side of South Mulberry Street between Henry Street and Short
Street;
      (8)   East side and the west side of Wall Street;
      (9)   North side of Church Street from Morris Street to the extreme east
end of the street;
      (10)   North side of East Jackson Street from Main Street to Morris
Street;
      (11)   North side of East Pursley Street from Morris Street to Gym Street
for church parking;
      (12)   North side of Lone Oak Street; parking is permitted on the south
side of Lone Oak;
      (13)   North side of New York Street;
      (14)   North side of Short Street;
      (15)   North side of Walnut Street between Mulberry Street and South
Olive Street;
      (16)   North side of Williams Street as the same extends east and west
across the town from the corporation lines of said town;
      (17)   North side of Williams Street between Main Street and Mulberry
Street (except there shall be no parking on the south side) and between
Mulberry Street and Hickory Street;
      (18)   South side of Beechwood Street; parking is permitted on the north
side of Beechwood;
      (19)   South side of East Pursley Street between Plum Street and Morris
Street;
      (20)   South side of East Pursley Street from Gym Street to Wall Street;
      (21)   South side of East Williams Street from Plum Street to Morris
Street and within the space of 20 feet from the intersection of Williams Street
and Morris Street in any direction;
      (22)   South side of Elm Street from South Mulberry to South Olive
Street;
      (23)   South side of Jackson Street from Main Street to Morris Street;
      (24)   West side of Hickory Street;
      (25)   West side of North Pursley Street which is north of Jackson
Street;
      (26)   West side of North Plum Street within 15 feet of the center of
each alley that intersects with North Plum Street; the curb of the sidewalk
that runs adjacent to the west side of North Plum Street shall be marked with
yellow paint to identify the areas that are within 15 feet of the center of any
alley that intersects the west side of North Plum Street where no parking is
permitted; and
      (27)   West side of Olive Street.
   (B)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
      (2)   Any person, company or corporation violating division (A) above
shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, shall be fined a sum of
not more than $50 and not less than $10, plus court costs or the applicable
fine imposed by Winchester City Court at the time.
(Ord. 96-08, passed 9-9-1996; Ord. 2006-02, passed 4-4-2006; Ord. 2015-04,
passed 8-3-2015; Ord. 2022-04, passed 10-4-2022)
SCHEDULE II. PARALLEL OR ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Parallel parking. The following streets in the town are ordained to be
“parallel parking only” zones, to wit:
      (1)   North side of Williams Street between Main Street and Mulberry
Street; and
      (2)   South side of Williams Street between Mulberry Street and Hickory
Street.
   (B)   Angle parking. The following streets in the town are ordained to be
“angle parking only” zones, to wit:
      (1)   North side of Henry Street between Main Street and Mulberry Street;
      (2)   North side of Henry Street between Main Street and Plum Street, in
front or parallel to the bank;
      (3)   South side of Henry Street between Main Street and Mulberry Street;
and
      (4)   South side of Henry Street between Main Street and Plum Street.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
      (2)   Any persons, company or corporations violating division (A) or (B)
above shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, shall be fined a
sum of not more than $50 and not less than $10, plus court costs or the
applicable fine imposed by Winchester City Court at the time.
(Ord. 96-08, passed 9-9-1996)
SCHEDULE III. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   Public parking lots. The general town parking lot(s) and the post
office parking lot shall have handicapped parking spots designated.
   (B)   108 West Henry Street. The town designates that the two parking spaces
in front of 108 West Henry Street be designated as “handicap parking spaces,”
in accordance with §
71.06 of this code. The designated parking spaces shall be clearly marked in
accordance with §
71.06. No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle in the above-
designated handicap parking spaces unless such person is handicapped as defined
by §
71.06, and who has a designated handicapped sticker or placard issued by the
appropriate issuing agency.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of division
(A) or (B) above shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which the violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1996-14, passed 12-2-1996; Ord. 97-09, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 2011-02,
passed 3-7-2011)
SCHEDULE IV. FIFTEEN-MINUTE PARKING.
   (A)   In front of City Building.
      (1)   One parking space directly in front of the City Building, located
104 East Henry Street, Farmland, Indiana, shall be designated to be a 15-minute
parking space between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through
Friday, so as to make it more convenient for the residents of the town to have
access to the City Building.
      (2)   The town is hereby authorized to post a sign designating said
parking space with a time limit of 15 minutes and is hereby authorized to
enforce said parking time limit.
   (B)   In front of 141 East Henry Street.
      (1)   The town hereby designates that the two parking spaces in front of
141 East Henry Street, which are the first two parking spaces on the north side
of Henry Street to the west of the first alley east of Main Street, shall be
designated as a 15-minute parking zone on Saturdays from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
      (2)   The designated parking spaces shall be clearly marked with signs
indicating that the spaces are in the 15-minute parking zone.
      (3)   No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle in the above-
designated 15-minute parking zone on Saturdays between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 5 p.m. for any period exceeding 15 consecutive minutes.
      (4)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that the registered owner
of the vehicle parked and standing in the 15-minute parking zone is the
individual that caused the vehicle to be parked in the zone.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
      (2)   Any person, company or corporation violating any provisions of
division (A) above shall be guilty of an infraction and, upon conviction, shall
be fined in a sum of not less than $1 and not more than $100.
      (3)   (a)   A person found guilty of violating division (B) above shall
be fined not less than $25 and not more than $100 for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each additional 15-minute period for
which the person parks and leaves the vehicle in such zone.
         (b)   Any vehicle which is parked in the 15-minute parking zone set
out in division (B) above for a period exceeding one consecutive hour may be
towed at the expense of the owner of the vehicle. The owner of such vehicle
shall be notified of the location of the vehicle, in writing, within three
business days of the date the vehicle is towed. The owner of the vehicle which
is towed shall be responsible to pay the towing and/or storage fee directly to
the towing company.
(Ord. 98-12, passed 11-2-1998; Ord. 2013-02, passed 2-4-2013)
SCHEDULE V. SNOW EMERGENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Public policy declared. It is declared to be in the best interest of
the public policy and the public safety of the town to regulate and restrict
the parking of vehicles on public streets during snow emergencies.
   (B)   Snow emergency defined. For the purpose of this schedule, the
following definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      SNOW EMERGENCY. A period of time after a forecast by the United States
Weather Bureau during and after a snowfall during which vehicular traffic is
expected to be particularly hazardous or congested due to the elements, and
during which period of time the parking of vehicles could hinder, delay and
obstruct the safe flow of traffic and the proper cleaning, clearing and making
safe of certain heavily traveled public streets of this town.
   (C)   Snow control routes designated. Which streets shall be designated snow
control routes are as follows, to wit:
      (1)   New York Street;
      (2)   East and West Williams Street;
      (3)   North and South Mulberry Street;
      (4)   North and South Plum Street; and
      (5)   East and West Henry Street.
   (D)   Town Council to declare snow emergency.
      (1)   A snow emergency shall commence by executive order, determination
and or proclamation by the Town Council or other designated town official, such
as the Town Marshal, or if declared by the county, as issued to local radio,
television and news services either before, during or after a snowfall, when in
the Council’s sound judgment and discretion, the circumstances warrant the
determination of such an emergency for the public safety of the town.
      (2)   The snow emergency shall continue in effect until the Council
determines that an emergency no longer exists and accordingly terminates the
emergency using the same media as before.
   (E)   Penalty. It is hereby declared that any vehicle not moved during such
a designated snow emergency shall be towed to the town-owned property or to a
private garage, where the vehicle may be impounded and shall be released only
at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 96-07, passed 9-9-1996)
SCHEDULE VI. VEHICLE SIZE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   General prohibition; Main Street exception. No person, persons or
corporation shall park or cause to be parked any truck, trailer, wagon, tractor
or any motor vehicle, or any combination of any of the foregoing, on the town
streets or alleys of the town, except Main Street, should their length or any
combination of the foregoing have a combined length of over 19 feet, except
when loading or unloading.
   (B)   Prohibitions on certain streets.
      (1)   No person, persons or corporation shall park, or cause to be
parked, any truck, trailer, wagon, tractor or any motor vehicle, or any
combination of the foregoing, on any of the streets in the town should the
length of the vehicle, or any combination of any of the foregoing, have a
combined length of over 19 feet, or a vehicle which weighs and/or is licensed
to carry over 26,000 pounds as evidenced by its gross vehicle weight.
      (2)   It is an exception to this division (B) if the person, persons or
corporation is operating a vehicle for the sole purpose of making a local
delivery to a business located within the corporation limits of the town.
      (3)   There is a rebuttable presumption that the registered owner of a
vehicle caused the vehicle to be parked in the location at which the vehicle is
found if the vehicle is found to be parked on and street within the town
limits.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
      (2)   Any person violating any provisions of division (A) above shall be
guilty of a Class C infraction.
      (3)   Any person, persons or corporation found guilty of a violation of
division (B) above shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 1987-7, passed - -; Ord. 2006-07, passed 10-2-2006)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FAIR HOUSING
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
94.   ABANDONED AND NON-OPERABLE VEHICLES
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
90.01   Policy statement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Unlawful practice
   
90.04   Discrimination in the sale, rental of housing
   
90.05   Discrimination in residential real estate-related transactions
   
90.06   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage service
   
90.07   Interference, coercion or intimidation
   
90.08   Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases
   
90.09   Equal access to housing in HUD programs
   
90.10   Exemptions
   
90.11   Administrative enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town to provide, within constitutional
limitation, for fair housing throughout its corporate limits as provided for
under the federal Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended, the federal Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, and I.C. 22-9.5-1 et seq.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-17-2013)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRIEVED PERSON. Any person who (I.C. 22-9.5-2-2):
      (1)   Claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice;
or
      (2)   Believes that such person will be injured by a discriminatory
housing practice that is about to occur.
   COMMISSION. The state’s Civil Rights Commission, created pursuant to I.C.
22-9-1-4 et seq.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-3)
   COMPLAINANT. A person, including the Commission, who files a complaint under
I.C. 22-9.5-6.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-4)
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
90.04 through
90.08 of this chapter or I.C. 22-9.5-5.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or part of a building or structure that is
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families; or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location of a building, structure or part of a building or
structure that is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a
residence by one or more families.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-8)
   FAMILIAL STATUS. One or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18
years being domiciled with a parent or another person having legal custody of
such individual or the written permission of such parent or other person. The
protections afforded against discrimination on the basis of FAMILIAL STATUS
shall apply to any person who is pregnant or is in the process of securing
legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual (I.C. 22-9.5-2-9), with the status of
such FAMILY being further defined in the definition of “familial status” in
this section.
   HANDICAP.
      (1)   With respect to a person:
         (a)   A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one
or more of such person’s major life activities;
         (b)   A record of having such an impairment;
         (c)   Being regarded as having such an impairment;
         (d)   An impairment described or defined pursuant to the federal
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; or
         (e)   Any other impairment defined under I.C. 22-9.5-2-10.
      (2)   The term HANDICAP shall not include current illegal use of or
addictions to a controlled substance as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802 (I.C. 22-
9.5-2-10(b)), nor does the term HANDICAP include an individual solely because
that individual is a transvestite (I.C. 22-9.5-2-10(c)).
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, non-incorporated organizations, trustees,
trustees in cases under 11 U.S.C., receivers and fiduciaries.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-11)
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the rights to occupy the premises owned by the occupant.
(I.C. 22-9.5-2-13)
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-17-2013)
§ 90.03 UNLAWFUL PRACTICE.
   Subject to the provisions of division (B) below, §
90.09 of this chapter and I.C. 22-9.5-3, the prohibitions against
discrimination in the sale or rental of housing set forth in I.C. 22-9.5-5-
1 and in §
90.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
   (A)   All dwellings, except as exempted by division (B) below and I.C. 22-
9.5-3;
   (B)   Other than the provisions of division (C) below, nothing in §
90.04 of this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner where the
private individual owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time; provided that in the sale of such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in the house at the time of sale or
exemption, shall apply only to one such sale within any 24-month period. The
private individual owner may not own any interest in, nor have owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, title to or any right to all or a portion of the
proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three such single-family houses
at any one time. The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
exempted from application of this section only if such house is sold or rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or services of any real estate broker, agent or salesperson, or any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings, or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent or salesperson, or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice of
advertisement or written notice in violation of §
90.04(C) of this chapter, but noting in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstracters, title companies and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
      (2)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by not more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
   (C)   For the purposes of division (B) above, a person shall be deemed to be
in the business of selling or renting dwellings if:
      (1)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as
principal in three or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any
dwelling or any interest therein;
      (2)   They have, within the preceding 12 months, participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or services in two or more transactions involving the sale
or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; or
      (3)   They are the owner of any dwelling unit designed or intended for
occupancy by, or occupied by, five or more families.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-17-2013)
§ 90.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE, RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   As made applicable by §
90.03 of this chapter, and except as exempted by §§
90.03(B) and
90.09 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (A)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin;
   (B)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services of
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (C)   To make, print or publish, or to cause to be made, printed or
published, any notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or
rental of a dwelling, that indicates any preference, limitation or
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status
or national origin, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination;
   (D)   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status or national origin that any dwelling is not available
for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or perspective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, handicap, familial status or national origin;
   (F)   To discriminate in the sale or rental, or to otherwise make
unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any buyer or renter because of a handicap
of:
      (1)   That buyer or renter;
      (2)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (G)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
      (1)   That person;
      (2)   A person residing in, or intending to reside in, that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented or made available; or
      (3)   Any person associated with that person.
   (H)   (1)   For purposes of this division (H), discrimination includes:
         (a)   A refusal to permit, at the expense of the handicapped person,
reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be occupied by
such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such person full
enjoyment of the premises, except that, in the case of a rental, the landlord
or landlady may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a
modification on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to
the condition that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear
excepted;
         (b)   A refusal to make reasonable accommodations in rules, policies,
practices or services when such accommodations may be necessary to afford such
person equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling; or
         (c)   In connection with the design and construction of covered multi-
family dwellings for first occupancy after the date that is 30 months after
September 13, 1998, a failure to design and construct those dwellings in such a
manner that:
            1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are
readily accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
            2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all
premises within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by
handicapped persons in wheelchairs; and
            3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following
features of adaptive design:
               a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
               b.   Light, switches, electrical outlets, thermostats and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
               c.   Reinforcements in bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
      (2)   Compliance with the appropriate requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 and the American National Standard for Buildings and
Facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people (commonly cited as ANSI A117.1) suffices to satisfy the requirements of
division (H)(1)(c)3.c. above.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (H) requires that a dwelling be made
available to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to
the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in
substantial physical damage to the property of others.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-17-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DISCRIMINATION IN RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity whose business
includes engaging in residential real estate-related transactions to
discriminate against any person in making available such a transaction, or in
the terms or conditions of such a transaction, because of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED
TRANSACTION means any of the following:
      (1)   The making or purchasing of loans or providing other financial
assistance:
         (a)   For purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or
         (b)   Secured by residential real estate.
      (2)   The selling, brokering or appraising of residential real property.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter prohibits a person engaged in the business of
furnishing appraisals of real property to take into consideration factors other
than race, color, religion, national origin, sex, handicap or familial status.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-17-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICE.
   It shall be unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or
participation in any multiple- listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him or her
in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation, on
account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national
origin.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-17-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 INTERFERENCE, COERCION OR INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful to coerce, intimidate, threaten or interfere with any
person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of his or her having
exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his or her having aided or encouraged
any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right granted or
protected by §§
90.03 through
90.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-17-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 PREVENTION OF INTIMIDATION IN FAIR HOUSING CASES.
   Whoever, whether or not acting under code or law, by force or threat of
force willfully injures, intimidates or interferes with, or attempt to injure,
intimidate or interfere with the following shall be fined and/or imprisoned
according to local, state and federal law:
   (A)   Any person because of his or her race, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status or national origin, and because he or she is or has been
selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or
negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any
dwelling, or applying for or participating in any service, organization or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings;
   (B)   Any person because he or she is or has been, or in order to intimidate
such person or any other person or any class of persons from:
      (1)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (A)
above; or
      (2)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   (C)   Any citizen because he or she is or has been, or in order to
discourage such citizen or any other citizen from lawfully aiding or
encouraging other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status or national origin, in
any of the activities, services, organizations or facilities described in
division (A) above, or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly
opposing any denial of the opportunity to participate.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-17-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 EQUAL ACCESS TO HOUSING IN HUD PROGRAMS.
   Pursuant to Federal Register, Volume 77, Number 23, published on February 3,
2012, the definition of FAMILY is revised to include families regardless of the
actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity or marital status of
its members.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-17-2013)
§ 90.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions defined or set forth under I.C. 22-9.5-3 et seq. shall be
exempt from the provisions of this chapter, to include those activities or
organizations set forth under divisions (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of
dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to
persons of the same religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color or national
origin. Nor shall anything in this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact
open to the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes,
provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose
from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter regarding familial status shall apply with
respect to housing for older persons. As used in this section, HOUSING FOR
OLDER PERSONS means housing:
      (1)   Provided under any state or federal program that the Secretary of
the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development or the state Civil
Rights Commission determines is specifically designed and operated to assist
elderly persons (as defined in the state or federal program);
      (2)   Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or
older; or
      (3)   Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years
of age or older per unit.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-17-2013)
§ 90.11 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The authority and responsibility for properly administering this
chapter and referral of complaints hereunder to the Commissioner, as set forth
in division (B) below, shall be vested in the chief elected official of the
town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of I.C. 22-9.5-4-8, the town, because
of lack of financial and other resources necessary to fully administer
enforcement proceedings and possible civil actions under the chapter, herein
elects to refer all formal complaints of violation of the articles of this
chapter by complainants to the state’s Civil Rights Commission for
administrative enforcement actions pursuant to I.C. 22-9.5-6, and the chief
elected official of the town shall refer all said complaints to the Commission
as provided for under division (A) above for purposes of investigation,
resolution and appropriate relief as provided for under I.C. 22-9.5-6.
   (C)   All executive departments and agencies of the town shall administer
their departments, programs and activities relating to housing and urban
development in a manner affirmatively to further the purposes of this chapter
and shall cooperate with the chief elected official and the Commission to
further such purposes.
   (D)   The chief elected official of the town or the chief elected official’s
designee shall provide information on remedies available to any aggrieved
person or complainant requesting such information.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-17-2013)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   If bodily injury results from a violation as set out in §
90.08 of this code, a person shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned
not more than ten years, or both, and if death results, a person shall be
subject to imprisonment for any term of years or for life.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 5-17-2013)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions and Enforcement
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Enforcement powers
   
91.003   Interference with Animal Control Officer
   
91.004   Absence of Animal Control Officer
Care and Treatment of Animals
   
91.015   General requirements
   
91.016   Abandoning animals
   
91.017   Poisoning animals
   
91.018   Provoking animal fights
Animal Licenses
   
91.030   Dog license requirement
   
91.031   Pet shop license requirement
Rabies Control
   
91.045   Vaccination required
   
91.046   Quarantining authority
   
91.047   Surrender of animals
   
91.048   Rabies and quarantine
Impoundment
   
91.060   Grounds for impoundment
   
91.061   Notice to owner
   
91.062   Release of captured animal without impoundment
   
91.063   Impoundment fee
Beekeeping
   
91.075   Definitions
   
91.076   Beekeeping prohibited
   
91.077   Keeping apiary on private property prohibited
Livestock
   
91.090   Definitions
   
91.091   Livestock prohibited
   
91.092   Keeping livestock on private property prohibited
Dog Kennels
   
91.105   Definition
   
91.106   Kennels prohibited
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any vertebrae creature imported, exotic or domesticated.
   DOMESTICATED LIVESTOCK. Any animal raised for profit.
   NUISANCE. When the owner of an animal allows said animal to violate any of
the following:
      (1)   Running at large, not being under the owner’s control, not being
confined to a cage, leash, tether, fence or the like, or by any other means of
restraint to prevent said animal from leaving the owner’s property;
      (2)   Molests or disturbs persons, vehicles or property by running,
walking, chasing, digging, barking or biting;
      (3)   Consistently barks, whines, howls, meows, cries, squawks or makes
any other noise excessively without having valid cause, thus disturbing the
peace in the area that the animal is located;
      (4)   Defecates upon any public place or private property not owned or
controlled by the animal’s owner himself or herself; note that if the owner of
said animal immediately removes the waste, he or she shall not be held in
violation;
      (5)   Creates noxious or offensive odors; or
      (6)   Creates an insect breeding or gathering site due to unsanitary
conditions.
   OWNER. Any person having purchased an animal, or having been given custody
of an animal by another, thus harboring, having care of or having charge of,
control of or possession of said animal.
   PET. Any animal bought by, or given custody to, an individual for purposes
of enjoyment, companionship, safety and other noncommercial purposes.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal not confined within its owner’s property to
prevent means of escape.
   VETERINARIAN. A person licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the
state.
   VICIOUS. Any animal which has:
      (1)   Attacked a person or another animal without having been provoked by
that person or animal;
      (2)   Attacked at some place other than its owner’s property; or
      (3)   Chased or approached another living thing at other than its owner’s
property in a menacing, threatening fashion or apparent attitude to attack.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not considered a pet residing inside the town
limits.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 91.002 ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   (A)   A person individually charged with the enforcement of this chapter
shall be designated the Animal Control Officer.
      (1)   Such Officer shall have full power to enforce all provisions of
this chapter, including the right to proceed upon public and private property
within the town limits in pursuit of animals in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Such Officer shall not have the right to enter a privately owned
enclosure in pursuit of any animal without consent of the owner, lessee or
occupant unless immediate danger warrants such to prevent injury or other legal
process is used; provided, however, if any animal is believed to be enclosed
without adequate food and water or dead animals are believed to be present with
just cause, the Animal Control Officer may attach a notice upon said structure
in an obvious location directing the occupant to contact the Officer at a given
location or phone number. If contact is not made within 24 hours, the Officer
may enter said enclosure to determine if this chapter has been violated.
   (B)   Any animal deemed vicious by the Animal Control Officer and that
cannot be captured safely without injury may be immediately destroyed for the
safety of the people of the town and its employees.
   (C)   Any animal trapped or captured in violation under this chapter shall
be held for three days at the town’s animal holding cages, with only the
following exceptions:
      (1)   Any animal that is hurt, injured, ill, sick or diseased in any way;
      (2)   Any animal too small or too large to be held in the town’s holding
cages; or
      (3)   Any animal deemed vicious or dangerous to control.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 91.003 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to interfere with an animal control
officer in the performance of his or her duties.
   (B)   Anyone, owner or otherwise, releasing any animal from a live trap,
cage or holding area shall be held in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   At no time shall anyone release any animal from the town’s custody
without prior knowledge of the Town Marshal or Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.004 ABSENCE OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   At any time the Animal Control Officer is not present, the Town Marshal, or
his or her Deputies and Reserve Deputies, may enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
CARE AND TREATMENT OF ANIMALS
§ 91.015 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All owners of animals shall see that their animal is:
      (1)   Kept in a clean, healthy and sanitary manner so that the animal is
not to be forced to sit or lay in its own excrement;
      (2)   Adequately fed, watered and sheltered, where:
         (a)   A shelter shall have adequate ventilation from excessive heat
and protection from cold; and
         (b)   Each living area for an animal shall be of adequate size to
provide room for sufficient exercise for said animal(s).
      (3)   On a tethered leash, shall have at least 15 feet in length for
movement, and the weight of said leash shall be strong enough to confine said
animal yet allow free movement;
      (4)   Protected against abuse or mistreatment and separated from other
animals that might cause harm to each other;
      (5)   Properly cared for by a certified veterinarian should it become
sick, diseased or injured;
      (6)   Separated from other animals should it become diseased, sick, ill
or vicious; and
      (7)   Maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state and
local laws and regulations respecting animal care or control as provided by the
Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to beat, starve or otherwise
mistreat any animal. Failure to comply with any requirement of division (A)
above shall be deemed mistreatment of the animal.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.016 ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person(s) to abandon any animal on any property,
public or private.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.017 POISONING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit poisoned meat or any poison or
harmful substance on any property, public or private, with the only exception
being for rodent control.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.018 PROVOKING ANIMAL FIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or incite any animals to fight
for any reason other than the personal protection of said owner.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
91.999
ANIMAL LICENSES
§ 91.030 DOG LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own within the town any dog six
months of age or older unless a current animal license issued by the county has
been obtained for the dog by said owner.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.031 PET SHOP LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   A pet shop license pursuant to this section shall be displayed prominently
in the business office at all times.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
91.999
RABIES CONTROL
§ 91.045 VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   Each dog, cat or required animal shall have a rabies vaccination more recent
than one year.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.046 QUARANTINING AUTHORITY.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the Quarantine Authority shall be the
Department of Public Safety, and any of its agents or employees so designated,
acting pursuant to the directives and regulations of the Health and Hospital
Corporation of the county.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 91.047 SURRENDER OF ANIMALS.
   The owner of any person suspected by the Animal Control Officer to have
bitten any person or been exposed to rabies shall promptly surrender said
animal for purposes of quarantine and observation. This shall be at the expense
of the owner at $10 per day.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.048 RABIES AND QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Any animal found to be rabid must be held and quarantined immediately
for two weeks of observation.
   (B)   The animal owner is responsible for reimbursing the town $10 per day
and any other veterinarian expenses incurred while under the observation
period.
   (C)   Should the Town Marshal or Animal Control Officer deem an animal to be
vicious and a threat to the people of the town at the end of the two-week
period, the animal owner shall be responsible for euthanizing the animal.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
91.999
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 91.060 GROUNDS FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Animals found at large in violation of this chapter shall be captured
and impounded.
   (B)   Any animal found abandoned or confined on private property in
violation of this chapter shall be impounded.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.061 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Upon the impoundment of any animal, a reasonable attempt shall be made
to notify and inform the owner of the animal of the requirements of this
subchapter for regaining custody of the animal.
   (B)   In cases of animal neglect and abuse, the Animal Control Officer may
refuse to release said animal to the original owner.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 91.062 RELEASE OF CAPTURED ANIMAL WITHOUT IMPOUNDMENT.
   When the owner of a captured animal is known, such animal need not be
impounded (at the Animal Control Officer’s discretion) but may be released to
the owner upon payment of fees and fines, if any, or upon the application for
license, if required.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 91.063 IMPOUNDMENT FEE.
   (A)   First offense: $10;
   (B)   Second offense: $25;
   (C)   Third offense: $50;
   (D)   Each subsequent offense: $50 additionally; and
   (E)   Each day of impoundment: $10 additionally.
(Ord. 1929-1, passed 9-9-; Ord. 1972-08, passed 10-16-1972; Ord. 1991-04,
passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 97-01, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999)
BEEKEEPING
§ 91.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APIARY. A location where bees are kept, also known as a BEE YARD.
   BEEKEEPING. The maintenance of honeybee colonies, commonly in human-made
hives, by humans. A beekeeper (or apiarist) keeps bees in order to collect
their honey and other products that the hive produces (including beeswax,
propolis, pollen and royal jelly), to pollinate crops or to produce bees for
sale to other beekeepers.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not a street or a
highway.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 91.076 BEEKEEPING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maintain an apiary or practice beekeeping within the town.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.077 KEEPING APIARY ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person in charge or in control of any real property within the
town, whether as an owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow
any person to maintain an apiary, or bee yard, on the property within his or
her control.
   (B)   No person in charge or in control of any real property within the
town, whether as an owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow
any person to practice beekeeping on the property within his or her control.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
91.999
LIVESTOCK
§ 91.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIVESTOCK. A horse, cow, mule, colt, donkey, bull, ox, calf, goat, sheep,
pig, goose, chicken, turkey, duck, llama or any other animal commonly used on a
farm for the production of goods for sale.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not a street or a
highway.
(Ord. 1973-3, passed 3-5-1973; Ord. 2018-06, passed 9-4-2018)
§ 91.091 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep livestock, or permit livestock
to be kept, on his or her premises in the town, whether gratuitously or for a
fee.
(Ord. 1973-3, passed 3-5-1973; Ord. 2018-06, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.092 KEEPING LIVESTOCK ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person in charge or in control of any real property within the town,
whether as an owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any
person to maintain a structure or other facility in which livestock or other
farm animals are housed or kept on any property within his or her control.
(Ord. 1973-3, passed 3-5-1973; Ord. 2018-06, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
91.999
DOG KENNELS
§ 91.105 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOG KENNEL.
      (1)   Any residence, building or other facility which is used primarily
to breed and raise dogs for sale;
      (2)   Any residence, building or other facility which houses more than
six dogs of any age at any one point in time; or
      (3)   Any residence, building or other facility which houses more than
two dogs which are owned for the purpose of the reproduction of offspring.
(Ord. 2000-07, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 91.106 KENNELS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be considered a violation of this section for any person, firm,
corporation or organization to house, operate or facilitate the operation of a
dog kennel within the town.
(Ord. 2000-07, passed 11-6-2000) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any violation of §
91.003 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $50.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violated any of the provisions of §
91.015 of this chapter may be given written notice of the practices or
conditions which constitute the violation, and the enforcing authority may,
where appropriate, suggest remedies. Any violation of this section shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than $50.
      (2)   Any person convicted of a second offense or subsequent offense of
violating provisions of §
91.015 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount of not less than $50, and
the court, upon request, shall order a forfeiture or other disposition of the
animal involved. Any judgment which calls for a fine or forfeiture or other
disposition of the animal by the town or any third party shall include the
collection costs, court costs, housing and the like as part of the judgment.
   (D)   A violation of §
91.016 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $50.
   (E)   The owner of an animal which does not have a rabies vaccination more
recent than one year as set out in §
91.045 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of the following amounts,
plus the expense to the Quarantine Authority of proving for the animal a
current rabies vaccination:
      (1)   First offense: $25;
      (2)   Second offense: $50; and
      (3)   Each consecutive offense thereafter: $50 times the number of
offenses, including the first two offenses.
   (F)   Any owner of an animal suspected to be rabid that refuses to release
said animal for observation as set out in §
91.048 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100 per day.
   (G)   In addition to any penalty imposed under this chapter, the court shall
impose a restitution fee of $50 against any individual found in violation of
any section of this chapter if the violation results in the Animal Control
Officer utilizing any medicine, tranquilizer or any other substance in order to
effect the capture of an at-large animal as set out in §
91.060 of this chapter.
   (H)   Any person, firm or corporation who is found to be in violation of any
provisions of §§
91.075 through
91.077 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not
exceeding $500. Each day that the person is found to be in violation of §§
91.075 through
91.077 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (I)   Any person, firm or corporation who is found to be in violation of any
provisions of §§
91.090 through
91.092 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not
exceeding $500. Each day that the person is found to be in violation of §§
91.090 through
91.092 shall constitute a separate offense.
   (J)   Any person, firm, corporation or organization who is convicted of a
violation of §
91.106 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in the following amount:
      (1)   First offense: $250 to $500, plus court costs; and
      (2)   Second offense and all subsequent offenses: $500 to $1,000, plus
court costs.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 6-7-1999; Ord. 2000-07, passed 11-6-2000; Ord. 2002-04,
passed 5-6-2002; Ord. 2017-04, passed 12-4-2017; Ord. 2018-06, passed 9-4-2018)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Housing and Sanitation Nuisances
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Nuisances on premises prohibited
   
92.03   Declaring property a health hazard
   
92.04   Order to abate; time limit
   
92.05   Failure to comply creates lien
   
92.06   Provisions in addition to other applicable law
Public Health Nuisances
   
92.20   Authoring or maintaining a nuisance unlawful
   92.21   Noxious substances, rank weeds and animal slaughter
   92.22   Trash disposal and weed maintenance; abatement by town
   92.23   Sanitary surveys; notice to abate; lien upon failure to abate
   92.24   Town Marshal to aid enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
HOUSING AND SANITATION NUISANCES
§ 92.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any condition of building exteriors or premises which is
detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which the premises is located or the maintenance of an unsafe dwelling or
building within the town.
      (2)   In addition thereto, the term NUISANCE shall also include:
         (a)   The accumulation of, outside of dwellings or other buildings on
residential property, junk, trash or debris, including, but not limited to,
garbage, discarded and refuse materials, waste materials, leaves, iron, tin,
furniture, appliances, cans and paper; and
         (b)   The storage of any motor vehicle parts, tires or building
materials other than in an enclosed building or within an area adequately
concealed so as not to be visible from any surrounding residential or public
properties.
(Ord. 93-08, passed 2-7-1993)
§ 92.02 NUISANCES ON PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep or
maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value
of the other property in the neighborhood in which such premises is located.
(Ord. 93-08, passed 2-7-1993) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 DECLARING PROPERTY A HEALTH HAZARD.
   When the property in question is in such a condition or contains sufficient
trash and debris thereon that it represents a hazard to public health, the
property may be declared a “health hazard” upon the request of a town employee
and upon the approval of the Town Marshal and will be subject to §
92.04 of this chapter.
(Ord. 97-03, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 92.04 ORDER TO ABATE; TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   Upon the showing that the property in question constitutes a “health
hazard” as described in §
92.03 of this chapter, the person violating the provisions of this subchapter
may be ordered to remedy and cure said conditions which constitute the nuisance
within one week of notification by a town employee. Such order shall be made by
the President of the Town Council or the Town Marshal or his or her designee.
   (B)   The order shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the owner or other person to whom the order is
directed;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the premises that is the
subject of the order;
      (3)   The description of the nuisance and the action the order requires;
and
      (4)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished, measured from the time that the notice is given.
(Ord. 97-03, passed 6-2-1997)
§ 92.05 FAILURE TO COMPLY CREATES LIEN.
   Failure to comply with the judgment entered in this subchapter will result
in a lien filed on the tax duplicated against the property described. Written
notice of such action will be given to the property owner by certified mail.
(Ord. 96-06, passed 9-9-1996) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 PROVISIONS IN ADDITION TO OTHER APPLICABLE LAW.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to be the exclusive
means of dealing with the regulation and control of housing and sanitation, and
with nuisances, but shall be a remedy provided in addition to the applicable
state statutes and other applicable laws.
(Ord. 93-08, passed 2-7-1993)
PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCES
§ 92.20 AUTHORING OR MAINTAINING A NUISANCE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, company or corporation to
erect, construct, cause or permit, keep or maintain within the limits of the
town anything whatsoever which is injurious to health, or indecent, or
offensive to the senses of any of the inhabitants of said town, or any
obstruction to the free use of property by any such inhabitant, and any person
or persons maintaining any nuisance above referred to is thereby declared to be
the author and maintainer of a nuisance.
(Ord. 93, passed 7-14-1908) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person who is in violation of §§
92.01 through
92.06 of this chapter who has been served with an order directed to them
pursuant to §
92.04 of this chapter, and who fails to take the required action within the
time period specified in the order, shall be guilty of a Class B infraction and
shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $1,000. The minimum fine for violation
of §§
92.01 through
92.06 shall be as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $100;
      (2)   Second offense: $250;
      (3)   Third offense: $500;
      (4)   Fourth offense: $1,000; and
      (5)   Each subsequent offense: $1,000.
   (C)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §§
92.20 of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, except as otherwise provided,
shall be fined for each offense in any sum not less than $10 nor more than $50,
and be imprisoned for ten days, at the option of the court, and each day’s
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 93, passed 7-14-1908; Ord. 99-03, passed 6-17-1999)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fire Alarms; Fire Department Services
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Excessive fire alarms
   
93.04   Testing of alarm systems
   
93.05   Logging alarm activity
   
93.06   Schedule of costs for Fire Department responses
   
93.07   Billing of costs
   
93.08   Impoundment authorized
   
93.09   Provisions are in addition to applicable law
Open Burning
   
93.20   Regulations governing open burning
   
93.21   Extinguishment of fires
   
93.22   Open burning by Fire Department
   
93.23   Open burning by town employees
Fireworks, Firecrackers and the Like
   
93.35   Limitation on sale and use
Fire Limits and Regulations
   
93.50   Description of fire limits
   
93.51   Building materials
   
93.52   Sheds, privies and ash depositories
   
93.53   Repair of damaged buildings
   
93.54   Constructing, moving or repairing contrary to requirements
   
93.55   Stove pipes, candles and lamps
   
93.56   Transporting fire
   
93.57   Chips, shavings and combustible materials
   
93.58   Hay and straw
   
93.59   Burning combustible materials
 
   
93.99   Penalty
FIRE ALARMS; FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICES
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish a schedule of charges for
Town Volunteer Fire Department services pursuant to the provisions of all
applicable law, including, but not limited to, the provisions of I.C. 36-8-12-
16.
(Ord. 1993-09, passed 2-7-1993)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM BUSINESS. Any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity or
person who sells, leases, maintains, services, repairs, alters, replaces, moves
or installs any alarm system or causes to be done in or on any building
structure, facility or grounds.
   ALARM SYSTEM. A fire alarm system that detects a fire condition and
automatically actuates a fire alarm device or causes to be actuated a fire
alarm signal that summons a response from the Town Volunteer Fire Department.
   FALSE ALARM. An event in which Fire Department personnel response was a
result of notification to the Volunteer Fire Department of a fire condition
and, upon arrival, no fire condition existed.
   MITIGATE. To take action to reduce the hazard.
   SPILL. Any unexpected, unintentional or unapproved dumping, discharge or
other loss of oil or a hazardous or otherwise objectionable substance that
damages or threatens to damage the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1993-09, passed 2-7-1993)
§ 93.03 EXCESSIVE FIRE ALARMS.
   No person shall allow, cause or fail to prevent the transmission of a fire
alarm signal serving a premises occupied or under his or her control of more
than three false alarm signals within a 12-month period. An alarm triggered by
electric thunderstorms or other inclement weather shall not be considered a
false alarm.
(Ord. 1993-09, passed 2-7-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 TESTING OF ALARM SYSTEMS.
   No person shall initiate or cause to be initiated a test of any alarm system
without first obtaining the approval of the Town Volunteer Fire Department.
Failure to do so shall be deemed a false alarm.
(Ord. 1993-09, passed 2-7-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 LOGGING ALARM ACTIVITY.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or the person in charge of the facility
that has an alarm system to record in a log the date and time of each alarm
activity, the cause and nature of each alarm and the dates and nature of any
service, installation or maintenance of the alarm system and its components.
The foregoing information shall be made available to the Town Volunteer Fire
Department upon request.
(Ord. 1993-09, passed 2-7-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 SCHEDULE OF COSTS FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT RESPONSES.
   Whenever the Town Volunteer Fire Department does provide fire protection
services, including, but not limited to, an initial response with a fire
engine, a fire truck or a fire apparatus, including, but not limited to, a
hazardous material response unit or a fire rescue unit dispatched on a fire
incident or on a hazardous material incident, any party so responsible for
causing the initial response or other services provided by the Town Volunteer
Fire Department shall be responsible for and shall be assessed the following
charges:
   (A)   For initial response with a fire engine, a fire truck or a fire
apparatus, including, but not limited to, a hazardous material response unit or
a fire rescue unit dispatched on a fire incident or on a hazardous material
incident, $250 per response vehicle, except a command/control vehicle, which is
$100 per vehicle;
   (B)   For each hour or fraction thereof of on-scene assistance, $150 per
response unit and $50 per command/control vehicle;
   (C)   A reasonable amount for expendable materials such as absorption
materials, emulsifiers or other agents used in cleanup operations; the actual
replacement cost of those materials;
   (D)   The reasonable cost and expense for collection of debris, chemicals,
fuel or contaminated materials resulting from a spill; the actual cost of
removal and disposal at an authorized location; and
   (E)   The Town Volunteer Fire Department actual labor costs.
(Ord. 1993-09, passed 2-7-1993)
§ 93.07 BILLING OF COSTS.
   The Town Volunteer Fire Department shall prepare all information concerning
the costs of the cleanup and other expenses incurred per incident pursuant to
the terms of this subchapter. The Town Volunteer Fire Department shall prepare
and send a statement of the charges to each responsible party, who shall be
jointly and severally and individually liable for the costs and expenses
incurred. The responsible party shall remit the charges to the Town Volunteer
Fire Department within 30 days after receipt of the statement of damages from
the Town Volunteer Fire Department.
(Ord. 1993-09, passed 2-7-1993) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 IMPOUNDMENT AUTHORIZED.
   The Town Volunteer Fire Department may impound any material or property
involved in the spill, or otherwise reasonably necessary in the performance of
fire protection services, when necessary for the protection of the public
safety and to accomplish the purposes as set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1993-09, passed 2-7-1993)
§ 93.09 PROVISIONS ARE IN ADDITION TO APPLICABLE LAW.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed to be the exclusive
means of dealing with fire prevention measures and expenses but shall be in
addition to the applicable state statutes and other applicable laws.
(Ord. 1993-09, passed 2-7-1993)
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.20 REGULATIONS GOVERNING OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall openly burn any material within the town limits, except as
follows, to wit:
   (A)   Open burning of wood products only may be done for recreational,
cooking purposes or for scouting events only upon the prior approval of the
Town Marshal, Fire Department Chief or a designated town employee.
      (1)   Said burning shall be in a noncombustible container not used for
trash or rubbish removal which is sufficiently vented to induce adequate
primary combustion air, with enclosed sides, a bottom and a mesh covering with
openings not larger that one-fourth inch square. All such approved fires must
be attended to at all times until completely extinguished.
      (2)   No burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as high winds, air stagnation, extremely dry conditions and the
like.
   (B)   Open burning may be conducted, if used solely for cooking purposes,
with the use of a charcoal or gas grill without the prior approval of a
designated town employee.
(Ord. 1998-03, passed 2-16-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 EXTINGUISHMENT OF FIRES.
   (A)   If anyone within the town is conducting open burning without the prior
approval of the Town Marshal, Fire Department Chief or a designated town
employee, the fire shall be extinguished by the Fire Department or a town
employee at the owner’s expense.
   (B)   Further, if any fire creates a nuisance or a fire hazard, the fire
shall be extinguished by the Fire Department or a town employee at the owner’s
expense even if prior approval has been given by a designated town employee for
such fire.
(Ord. 1998-03, passed 2-16-1998)
§ 93.22 OPEN BURNING BY FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The town recognizes the need for the Town Fire Department to conduct
open burning for training exercises within the corporate limits of the town to
train the Fire Department volunteers.
   (B)   Therefore, upon prior approval as ordered under this subchapter, the
Town Fire Department and its volunteers may conduct open burning training
exercises without violating this subchapter if done so within the normal course
of their employment or volunteer activities.
(Ord. 98-06, passed 5-18-1998)
§ 93.23 OPEN BURNING BY TOWN EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The town recognizes that there is a need for town employees to conduct
open burning on town property from time to time to assist in the cleanup and
beautification of the town and for disposal of accumulated storm damage and
wood products.
   (B)   Therefore, upon prior approval as ordered under this subchapter, town
employees, during the ordinary course of their employment, may conduct open
burning without violating this subchapter for the cleanup of the town and for
disposal of accumulated storm damage and wood products.
(Ord. 98-06, passed 5-18-1998)
FIREWORKS, FIRECRACKERS AND THE LIKE
§ 93.35 LIMITATION ON SALE AND USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to sell or discharge any
firecrackers, torpedoes, Roman candles, pistols or any other fireworks within
the corporate limits of the town before 12:00 p.m., noon, of July 3 and after
6:00 a.m. of July 5 of any year.
(Ord. 1926-2, passed 4-26-1926) Penalty, see §
93.99
FIRE LIMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 93.50 DESCRIPTION OF FIRE LIMITS.
   All that part of the town embraced within the following described limits
shall be designated and known as the “fire limits” of the town, namely:
commencing at the intersection of Mulberry Street and Williams Street and
running thence south along Mulberry Street to the intersection of a certain
alley with Mulberry Street, extending east and west through the town, at the
north line of Mulls Addition to the town; thence east along such above-
described alley to the intersection of such above-described alley with Plum
Street, thence north on Plum Street to the intersection of Plum Street with
Williams Street; thence west along Williams Street to the intersection of
Williams Street with Mulberry Street at the place of beginning.
(Ord. 90, passed 1-25-1908)
§ 93.51 BUILDING MATERIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, company, firm or corporation
to erect or cause to be erected within the fire limits of the town any building
or any addition to any building, or to move into the fire limits any building
already constructed, or to change the location of any building in the fire
limits, unless all outside walls and main partition walls be made of stone,
brick, cement or other fire- proof material.
(Ord. 90, passed 1-25-1908) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.52 SHEDS, PRIVIES AND ASH DEPOSITORIES.
   Sheds not exceeding 12 feet in height at the peak or highest part thereof,
and privies not exceeding ten feet square and 12 feet high at the peak, may be
constructed of wood and shall not be subject to the provisions of this
subchapter; provided that the term SHED shall be so construed as to mean a
structure with a roof sloping one way, with one or more sides of said structure
entirely open. But all depositories for ashes within or without the fire limits
shall be built of brick or other fire-proof material, without wood in any part
thereof.
(Ord. 90, passed 1-25-1908) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.53 REPAIR OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No wooden building within said limits which may hereafter be damaged
to the extent of 50% of the value thereof shall be repaired or rebuilt, and no
wooden building within said limits shall be repaired in such a manner so as to
make any addition to the dimensions, or by the use of any material of a more
combustible character than the original structure, or to in any way increase
the danger from fire.
   (B)   The amount or extent of damages that may be done to any building which
it may be proposed to repair may be determined by three disinterested persons,
residents of the town, one of whom shall be selected by the owner of said
building and the second by the Town Council, and the two so chosen shall select
a third, and the decision of the persons so appointed shall be final and
conclusive; and it shall be the duty of the owner of the building, before said
reference is made, to deposit with the Clerk-Treasurer the sum of $4.50, which
sum shall be applied to the payment of reference expenses; the remainder, if
any, shall be returned to the owner.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Marshal of the town in cases of such
damage when, in his or her opinion, the same is to the extent of 50% to notify
the owner thereof of such fact and to forbid the repair or rebuilding thereof
until the extent of such damages may be ascertained as aforesaid.
(Ord. 90, passed 1-25-1908) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.54 CONSTRUCTING, MOVING OR REPAIRING CONTRARY TO REQUIREMENTS.
   No owner, occupant, tenant, contractor, builder or other person shall build
or aid in the erection of any building, or part of a building, within said
limits contrary to or in any other manner than authorized by the provisions of
this subchapter, or shall remove or assist in removing any wooden building
within said limits into the same, or own, repair or assist in repairing any
damaged wooden building contrary, in either case, to any provision of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 90, passed 1-25-1908) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.55 STOVE PIPES, CANDLES AND LAMPS.
   (A)   No pipe of any stove shall be put up unless it be conducted into a
chimney made of brick or stone or other fire-proof material.
   (B)   No lighted candle or lamp shall be used in any stable or other place
or building where hay, straw or other combustible material shall be kept unless
the same shall be well-secured in a lantern.
   (C)   Open flames such as from candles, lanterns, kerosene heaters and gas-
fired heaters shall not be located on or near decorative material or similar
combustible materials.
   (D)   Open-flame decorative devices shall comply with all of the following
restrictions:
      (1)   Class I and Class II liquids and LP-gas shall not be used;
      (2)   Liquid- or solid-fueled lighting devices containing more than eight
ounces (237 milliliters) of fuel must self-extinguish and not leak fuel at a
rate of more than one-fourths’ (0.25) teaspoon per minute (1.26 milliliters per
minute) if tipped over;
      (3)   The device or holder shall be constructed to prevent the spillage
of liquid fuel or wax at the rate of more than one-fourths’ (0.25) teaspoon per
minute (1.26 milliliters per minute) when the device or holder is not in an
upright position;
      (4)   The device or holder shall be designed so that it will return to
the upright position after being tilted to an angle of 45 degrees from vertical
(exception: devices that self-extinguish if tipped over and do not spill fuel
or wax at the rate of more than one-fourths’ (0.25) teaspoon per minute (1.26
milliliters per minute) if tipped over;
      (5)   The flame shall be enclosed except where openings on the side are
not more than 0.375-inch (9.5 millimeters) diameter or where openings are on
the top and the distance to the top is such that a piece of tissue paper placed
on the top will not ignite in ten seconds;
      (6)   Chimneys shall be made of noncombustible materials and securely
attached to the open-flame device (exception: a chimney is not required to be
attached to any open-flame device that will self-extinguish if the device is
tipped over);
      (7)   Fuel canisters shall be safely sealed for storage;
      (8)   Storage and handling of combustible liquids shall be in accordance
with State Fire Code Chapter 57;
      (9)   Shades, where used, shall be made of noncombustible materials and
securely attached to the open-flame device holder or chimney; and
      (10)   Candelabras with flame-lighted candles shall be securely fastened
in place to prevent overturning, and shall be located away from occupants using
the area and away from possible contact with drapes, curtains or other
combustibles.
(Ord. 90, passed 1-25-1908) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Provisions related to division (C), see State Fire Code § 308.1.5
   Provisions related to division (D), see State Fire Code § 308.3.1
§ 93.56 TRANSPORTING FIRE.
   No person shall carry fire in or through any street or lot, or other public
place or private place, except the same be placed or covered in some close or
secure pan or other vessel.
(Ord. 90, passed 1-25-1908) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.57 CHIPS, SHAVINGS AND COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   No person removing any chips or shavings or other combustible material shall
scatter or strew them in any street or alley, or shall at any time direct,
permit or suffer any chips, shavings or other combustible material to be taken
or thrown or scattered on any street or alley.
(Ord. 90, passed 1-25-1908) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.58 HAY AND STRAW.
   No person shall in the town have, put or keep any hay or straw in any stack
or pile without having the same enclosed or secured so as to protect it from
flying sparks of fire, and no person shall keep, or permit to be kept, in
cellars or in the rear portions of storerooms or warehouses any straw or other
combustible material.
(Ord. 90, passed 1-25-1908) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.59 BURNING COMBUSTIBLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to or burn any hay,
straw, shavings, paper or other combustible material in any street, alley, lot
or yard within the fire limits of said town within 20 feet of any wooden
building or between the sunset of one day and the sunrise of the next
succeeding day.
   (B)   In all cases when the Chief of the Fire Department, the Marshal, night
watch or any fire warden of the town shall deem said burning to be dangerous,
he or she shall cause the same to be removed or extinguished and cause the
arrest of any person who may have caused such firing or burning if such person
shall refuse to obey his or her orders in reference thereto.
(Ord. 90, passed 1-25-1908) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, corporation, firm or association who violates §§
93.01 through
93.09 of this chapter shall be fined:
         (a)   For the first false alarm fire signal in excess of three false
alarm signals in any 12- month period: $100;
         (b)   For the second false alarm signal in excess of three false alarm
signals in any 12-month period: $200; and
         (c)   For the third and each successive false alarm signal in excess
of three in any 12-month period: $300.
         (b)   All fines hereunder shall be paid to the Town Volunteer Fire
Department within 30 days after notification of the violation. This division
(B)(1)(b) shall not apply to users of a new fire alarm system during the first
90 days from the date of installation.
      (2)   (a)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.09 of this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited therein, or shall fail to
perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by the Fire
Chief or designated representative of the Town Volunteer Fire Department, or
shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the Fire Chief
or his or her designated representative in connection with the provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.09, for each such violation, failure or refusal, such person, firm or
corporation shall be fined in any such sum not less than $25 nor more than
$500.
         (b)   Each day of such unlawful activity as is prohibited by division
(B)(2)(a) above shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Anyone caught violating §§
93.20 through
93.23 of this chapter shall be fined as set forth below. Said fine shall be in
addition to any cost imposed under §
93.21 of this chapter due to the extinguishment of the fire. The fines are as
follows, to wit:
      (1)   First offense: $12.50;
      (2)   Second offense: $25;
      (3)   Third offense: $50; and
      (4)   Subsequent offenses: $20 times the number of offenses committed by
the person, including the first three offenses.
   (D)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of §
93.35 of this chapter shall, upon his or her conviction before any Justice of
the Peace of said town or any court of competent jurisdiction, be fined in any
sum not to exceed $10 for each offense.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any or either of the provisions of §§
93.50 through
93.59 of this chapter or any section or clause thereof, or who shall fail or
refuse to comply with any of the requirements or to perform any of the duties
herein required of him or her, shall, on conviction, forfeit and pay to the
town a fine not less than $1 nor more than $10. Each and every day any person
shall continue any such violation or fail or refuse to comply with any such
requirements shall be deemed and taken to be a separate offense.
(Ord. 90, passed 1-25-1908; Ord. 1926-2, passed 4-26-1926; Ord. 1993-09, passed
2-7-1993; Ord. 1998-03, passed 2-16-1998)
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED AND NON-OPERABLE VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Non-operable vehicles on streets, public property
   
94.03   Non-operable or discarded vehicles on private property
   
94.04   Notice to remove and time limit; contending notice
   
94.05   Removal by town; lien for expenses
   
94.06   Exceptions
   
94.07   Impoundment
   
94.08   Fee schedule for towing and storage
   
94.09   Town Marshal, designee may incur charges
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the town which is not a street or a
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. A machine propelled by power, other than human power, designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and
transport persons or property or pull machinery, and shall include, without
limitation, automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies and
wagons.
(Ord. 93-07, passed 2-7-1993; Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 94.02 NON-OPERABLE VEHICLES ON STREETS, PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall leave or discard any partially dismantled or otherwise non-
operable vehicle on any public street, alley, highway or any other public
property within the municipality.
(Ord. 93-07, passed 2-7-1993; Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 NON-OPERABLE OR DISCARDED VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall willfully leave a discarded, non-operable or abandoned
vehicle on private property without the permission of the person having the
right to the possession of the property. For purposes of this section, the fact
that a vehicle has been left on private property without the permission or
notification of the person having the right to possession of this property is
prima facie evidence of abandonment.
(Ord. 93-07, passed 2-7-1993; Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 NOTICE TO REMOVE AND TIME LIMIT; CONTENDING NOTICE.
   (A)   No person in charge or in control of any real property within the
municipality, whether as an owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall
allow any discarded or non-operable vehicle to remain on the property within
his or her control longer that 72 hours after the receipt of a written notice
from the Town Marshal instructing the person to remove the discarded or non-
operable vehicle from the property. This division (A) shall not apply to a
vehicle stored in an enclosed building or to commercial vehicles, repair shops,
used car dealers or junkyards operated in a lawful manner.
   (B)   Notice required under division (A) above shall be deemed to be
adequate the Town Marshal or his or her designee causes that notice to be
affixed to the vehicle or the door of any residence located on the property
where the vehicle is found or by delivering the notice in person, by certified
mail or by leaving the notice affixed to the door and mailing a copy of the
same to the registered owner, the owner of the real estate or the tenant,
occupant or lessee of the private property upon which the discarded or non-
operable motor vehicle is found.
   (C)   The notice required under division (A) above should state the
following:
      (1)   The date and time of the notice;
      (2)   A description of the non-operable or discarded motor vehicle;
      (3)   The license plate number on the motor vehicle, if any;
      (4)   The identity of the owner or person in charge of the real property
upon which the vehicle is located;
      (5)   That the person responsible for the vehicle has 72 hours after the
date and time noted in division (C)(1) above in order to remove the vehicle
because it is alleged that the vehicle is a discarded or non-operable vehicle
as defined by division (A) above;
      (6)   A copy of this chapter should be attached; and
      (7)   A statement indicating that if the vehicle is not removed from the
property within 72 hours of the date and time affixed above, this would be
prima facie evidence of the fact that it is a non-operable or discarded vehicle
in violation of this section, and the person to whom the notice is directed
could be subject to penalties provided by this chapter.
   (D)   If the person to whom the notice is directed contends that the vehicle
is operable and not discarded, he or she or a designee should take it to the
Police Department for inspection. If this is done within 72 hours of the time
of the giving of the notice, this shall be deemed to be prima facie evidence
that the vehicle in question is not a discarded on non-operable vehicle.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, if the 72 hours granted ends after 5:00
p.m. Friday and before noon on the following Monday, the time shall be extended
to 5:00 p.m. that Monday. If it ends on a legal holiday, the time shall be
extended 24 hours following the conclusion of the legal holiday.
(Ord. 93-07, passed 2-7-1993; Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 REMOVAL BY TOWN; LIEN FOR EXPENSES.
   (A)   (1)   If said vehicle is not removed within the time so fixed, the
Town Marshal or his or her designee may cause said vehicle to be removed at the
expense of the owner of the real estate upon which the vehicle was removed,
which expense shall constitute a lien on the real estate.
      (2)   A statement of the expenses to remove and store said vehicle shall
be mailed to the property owner at the last known mailing address on record at
the County Auditor’s Office, and the owner shall pay the amount to the Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   If the property owner fails to pay the amount within ten days after
receiving the statement, a certified copy of the statement of costs shall be
filed in the Office of the County Auditor. The Auditor shall place the amount
claimed on the tax duplicate against the property affected by the payment of
fees, and the amount shall be collected as taxes are collected and shall be
disbursed to the General Fund of the town.
(Ord. 93-07, passed 2-7-1993; Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 94.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   At the discretion of the Town Marshal, a vehicle or part thereof may
be outside in violation of the provisions of §
94.05 of this chapter for reasons of being the stored property of a
serviceperson, illness of the owner, unemployment of the owner or being the
property of a licensed dealer. A certificate issued by the Town Marshal showing
the reason for the exception and the duration of its effectiveness, which may
not be more than one year, shall be renewable under the same provisions as
granted and shall be affixed to the object in question so as to be at all times
available for inspection.
   (B)   The absence of such certificate shall make the vehicle liable to §
94.05 even though it qualified for the exceptionary powers of the Town Marshal.
(Ord. 93-07, passed 2-7-1993; Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 94.07 IMPOUNDMENT.
   In lieu of filing a lien under §
94.05 of this chapter:
   (A)   The Town Marshal or his or her designee may impound any vehicle found
in violation of this chapter. The vehicle shall remain impounded until lawfully
claimed or disposed of in accordance with I.C. 9-22-1-5 et seq. and any
amendments thereto;
   (B)   (1)   The Town Marshal or his or her designee may also impound a
vehicle that is non-operable or has been abandoned upon complaint of any owner
of a repair garage when the vehicle has been left longer than that agreed upon
by the owner of the repair garage or place of storage, his or her agent or
employee and the owner or operator of the vehicle.
      (2)   Before taking possession of the vehicle, the Town Marshal or his or
her designee shall give a 72-hour notice to the owner of the vehicle of his or
her intention to impound the vehicle at the end of the 72 hours if it is not
lawfully removed from the repair garage or other place of storage;
   (C)   The Town Marshal shall designate a place of storage for vehicles
impounded under this section;
   (D)   The owner of a motor vehicle impounded under this section may reclaim
it for payment of any expenses or charges incurred in its removal and storage
and presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a certificate
of title to the motor vehicle;
   (E)   If the motor vehicle remains unclaimed by the owner for a period of 30
days, the motor vehicle may be disposed of in accordance with the provisions
published by I.C. 9-22-1-6 et seq. and any amendments thereto; and
   (F)   If the value of the vehicle or parts is less that $250, the Town
Marshal or his or her designee may proceed to dispose of the vehicle or parts
removed pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-13 and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. 93-07, passed 2-7-1993; Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 94.08 FEE SCHEDULE FOR TOWING AND STORAGE.
   The following maximum fee schedule shall be charged for all towing and
storage fees imposed pursuant to I.C. 9-22-1-1 et seq. and any amendments
thereto:
   (A)   Towing: $50 per vehicle in the town, plus $1 per mile for any towing
outside the town; and
   (B)   Storage: $5 per day per vehicle.
(Ord. 93-07, passed 2-7-1993; Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 94.09 TOWN MARSHAL, DESIGNEE MAY INCUR CHARGES.
   The Town Marshal or his or her designated officers may incur charges for the
removal or storage or disposition of abandoned vehicles pursuant to I.C. 9-22-
1-1 et seq. and any amendments thereto.
(Ord. 93-07, passed 2-7-1993; Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall be in violation of any provisions
of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not exceeding $500.
(Ord. 93-07, passed 2-7-1993; Ord. 2003-02, passed 5-5-2003)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.001   Definitions
   
95.002   Scope and construction
   
95.003   Hours of operation
   
95.004   Permits
Park Property and Plants
   
95.015   Injuring park property
   
95.016   Littering, rubbish, refuse and pollution
   
95.017   Damaging plants
   
95.018   Trees in streets
Safety Restrictions and Requirements
   
95.030   Disorderly conduct
   
95.031   Alcoholic beverages and controlled substances
   
95.032   Explosives, firearms, weapons and missiles
   
95.033   Fires; lighted cigars and cigarettes
   
95.034   Restricted areas
   
95.035   Reckless driving
Animals
   
95.050   Protection of animals
   
95.051   Animals at large
   
95.052   Horses
Activities, Pursuits and Sales
   
95.065   Picnics and outings
   
95.066   Camping
   
95.067   Meetings, exhibitions, parades and racing
   
95.068   Games
   
95.069   Model devices
   
95.070   Gambling
   
95.071   Bathing
   
95.072   Vendors
   
95.073   Peddling, sales and photographs
   
95.074   Advertising
   
95.075   Construction work
Vehicles
   
95.090   Traffic control
   
95.091   U-turns
   
95.092   Obstructing traffic
   
95.093   Driving off pavement
   
95.094   Parking at night
   
95.095   Driving instruction; student drivers
   
95.096   Towing and projecting articles
   
95.097   Working on vehicles
   
95.098   Equipment of vehicles
   
95.099   Restrictions on vehicles, vehicle loads
   
95.100   Recreational vehicles, horseback riding
   
95.101   Aviation
Other Municipal Parks and Park Property
   
95.115   Memorial pocket park
 
   
95.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BATHING AREA. Any area maintained for the use of bathers, including, but not
limited to, water area and land under water adjacent to the bathing beaches,
swimming pools or any other area maintained or used for BATHING AREAS under the
jurisdiction of the Board.
   BICYCLE PATH. Any path, road or trail maintained for persons riding
bicycles.
   BOARD. The Parks and Recreation Board of the town.
   BRIDLE PATH. Any path or road maintained for persons riding on horseback.
   DEPARTMENT OF PARKS. The Department of Parks of the town, or such department
of said town as may now or hereafter be under the jurisdiction of the Board.
   FOOTPATH OR TRAIL. Any path or trail maintained for pedestrians.
   OWNER. Any person owning, operating or having the use or control of a
vehicle, animal, thing or other property, under a lease or otherwise.
   PARK. Includes all parks, parkways, playgrounds, athletic fields, tennis
courts, golf courses, swimming pools, beaches, boardwalks, parking areas and
other recreation areas, museums, zoological and botanical gardens, places,
squares, circles, spurs, open places, boulevards, roads, waters and lands under
water, and also entrances and approaches thereto, docks and piers, channels and
bridges inleading to or connecting such park or parks or parts thereof, which
are under the jurisdiction of the Board shall utilize, whether the same are now
or hereafter owned or acquired by the town in fee or otherwise, including all
land under and space above the surface of the ground.
   PARK-STREET. Street property in the park for the full width thereof.
   PARKWAY. Only such area as may lie within or between two public streets.
   PERMITS. Any written authorization issued by or under the authority of the
Board for a specified park privilege, activity or event, or permitting the
performance of a specified act or acts in any park or park-street.
   PLAYGROUND AREA. Any area maintained or designated as a playground, and
including all territory under the jurisdiction of the Board.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any member of the Police Department of the town, or police
officer assigned to the Board or appointed by the Board as a park police
officer, or any other town employee sworn in as a peace officer by the town or
the Board pursuant to law.
   RULES AND REGULATIONS. Any rules or regulations of the Board.
   SAFETY ZONE. Any space within any park or park-street so designated by
appropriate signs as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SERVICE ROAD. Any park-street adjacent to the main roadway of a parkway.
   UNNECESSARY STOPPING. Bringing a vehicle to a complete stop on a road in a
park other than at a parking place, or other than in conformity with traffic
regulations, or other than because of an emergency.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -)
§ 95.002 SCOPE AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Construction. In the interpretation of this chapter affecting parks,
its provisions shall be construed as follows.
      (1)   Any requirement or provisions of this chapter relating to any act
shall respectively extend to and include the causing, procuring, aiding or
abetting, directly or indirectly, of such act or the permitting or the allowing
of any minor in the custody of any persons doing any act prohibited by any
provision hereof.
      (2)   No provision hereof shall make unlawful any act necessarily
performed by any officers or employee of the Department of Parks in their line
of duty or work as such, or by any person or his or her agents or employees in
the proper and necessary execution of the terms of any agreement with the
Board.
      (3)   Any act otherwise prohibited by this chapter, provided it is not
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance, shall be lawful if performed under,
by virtue of and in compliance with the provisions of a permit and to the
extent authorized thereby.
      (4)   This chapter is in addition to and supplemental to all municipal,
state and federal laws and ordinances.
   (B)   Territorial scope. This chapter shall be effective within and upon all
areas under the jurisdiction of the Board and shall regulate the use thereof by
all persons.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -)
§ 95.003 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The hours of operation of the town park shall be during daylight hours
from dawn to dusk each day.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be present in the town park at
any time during the night between dusk and dawn, subject to the following:
      (1)   Any person who has the express written consent of the Town Council
or the Town Marshal may be present in the town park between dusk and dawn; or
      (2)   Any law enforcement officer who is working in the ordinary course
of his or her duties may be present at the town park between dusk and dawn.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 9-4-2018) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.004 PERMITS.
   (A)   A permit to do any act shall authorize the same only insofar as it may
be performed in accordance with the written terms and conditions thereof. Any
violation of any law, ordinance or rule or regulation of the Board or of any
other town department by the holder of any permit of any term or condition
thereof shall constitute grounds for revocation by the Board or by its
authorized representative, whose action therein shall be final.
   (B)   In case of revocation of any permit, all moneys paid for or on account
thereof shall, at the option of the Board, be forfeited to and be retained by
the town; and the holder of such permit, together with his or her agents and
employees, who violated such terms and conditions shall be jointly and
severally liable to the town for all damages and loss suffered by it in excess
of money so forfeited, and neither the retention by the town of the whole or
any part of such moneys nor the recovery or collection of such damages, or
both, shall relieve such person or persons from liability to punishment for any
violation of any law, ordinance or rules or regulation of the Board or the
town.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -)
PARK PROPERTY AND PLANTS
§ 95.015 INJURING PARK PROPERTY.
   No persons shall injure, deface, displace, remove, fill in, raise, destroy
or tamper with any drive, path, walk, bridge or approach thereto; or take up,
remove or carry away any asphalt, curb, flagstone, rock, stone, gravel, sand,
clay or earth; or make any excavation of any kind; or harvest, cut, injure or
remove any ice; or injure, mutilate, deface, displace, remove or destroy any
wall, fence, shelter, seat, statue, monument or other structure, building,
post, railing, beach, seat platform, stand, tree guard, telephone, pipe or main
for conducting, gas, water or wires, or hydrant, sewer, drain, pipe, main,
receiving basin, covering, manhole or vent forming a part thereof, or any
appurtenance or appendage conforming therewith; or injure, deface, destroy,
mutilate, remove or carry away, displace or tamper with any property or
equipment, real or personal, owned by the town or under the jurisdiction,
control, government, use or maintenance of any park or park-street; or injure,
deface, displace, remove or destroy any sign, notice, inscription, post or
monument erected or marked for any purpose, or any milestone, danger sign or
signal, guide sign or post or any signaling device sanctioned, installed or
placed by the Board or by the Police Department within any park or upon any
park-streets for the purpose of directing, restricting or regulating traffic,
establishing zones or giving information or directions to the public; or
interfere with any lamp, lamp post or electric light apparatus or light, or
extinguish the light therein, or attach, string, adjust or suspend any wire or
similar object in or over any part of any park or park-street.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.016 LITTERING, RUBBISH, REFUSE AND POLLUTION.
   (A)   Littering. No person shall take into, carry through, leave in or
throw, cast, lay, drop or discharge into or on, or suffer or permit any
servant, agent, employee, person or animal in his or her charge to take into,
carry through, leave in, throw, cast, lay, drop or discharge into or on, any
park any rubbish of any sort, including, but not limited to, ashes, dross,
cinders, shells, fruit, skins, pasteboard, dirt, sand, oil, grease, clay, loam,
stone or building rubbish, hay, straw, oates, sawdust or shavings, or
manufacturing, trade or household waste, or vehicles or parts thereof, as junk,
or old iron or other metal or objects made therefrom; or sick, diseased or dead
animals, organic refuse or other offensive matter, including swill, brine,
urine, fecal matter, garbage or rubbish; provided that in the morning before 8:
00 a.m. or before the first sweeping of the roadway of the park-street by the
street cleaners, dust from the sidewalk may be swept into the gutter if there
piled, but not otherwise. The leaving of refuse, except in receptacles provided
therefor, or leaving or littering of newspapers or other papers in a park is
prohibited. No person shall throw, cast, lay or deposit any bottle or piece of
crockery or any glass or glassware, or any part thereof, or a metallic or other
substance with sharp edges or projections in any park.
   (B)   Spitting. No person shall in any park spit upon any wall, crossing,
safety zone, structure, bridge, platform, stairway or floor of any building.
   (C)   Pollution of waters. No person shall throw, cast, lay or drop or
discharge into or leave in the waters used for bathing or waters in any park,
or in any storm sewer or drain flowing into said waters, any substance, matter
or thing, liquid or solid, which may or shall result in the pollution of said
waters.
   (D)   Drains and sewers. No person shall discharge directly or indirectly
into any opening, or into any gutter leading into any sewer, receiving basin or
drain in or leading into the park, any gas or vapor, or any substance which may
form a deposit tending to choke same, or any volatile liquid which will emit an
inflammable vapor, or any steam or hot water above 100°F.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.017 DAMAGING PLANTS.
   (A)   No person shall in any park destroy, cut, break, deface, mutilate,
injure, disturb, sever from the ground or remove any growing thing; or bring
into or have in his or her possession in any park any garden or agricultural
implements or tools which could be used for the removal thereof; or pile or
maintain any material or debris of any kind against or upon the same; or attach
any rope, cable or other contrivance thereto; or set fire to any timber, tree,
shrub, plant, flower, grass or plant growth, or suffer any fire upon other land
to extend into park lands; or hitch any horse or other animal to, or leash the
same standing near enough to injure, any tree, shrub, lawn or grass plat, or
planted area, except at such times when permission to do so shall have been
given by the Board to the public.
   (B)   No person shall bring into or have in his or her possession in any
park any tree, shrub or other plant, or any branch, stem, flower or leaf
thereof.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.018 TREES IN STREETS.
   (A)   No tree or shrub shall be planted in any street, parkway or park
without a permit, and all terms and conditions of the permit shall be complied
with.
   (B)   No stem, branch or leaf of any tree or shrub in any street, parkway or
park shall be cut, broken, mutilated, painted or otherwise disturbed or
defaced, nor shall the root of any such tree or shrub be disturbed or
interfered with, by any person without a permit. No person shall pile or
maintain against any tree or shrub any building material or other material or
debris of any kind. No guy rope, cable, banner, sign or other contrivance shall
be attached to any tree or shrub.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
SAFETY RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 95.030 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person shall in any park or park-street:
   (A)   Disobey an order of a police officer or any park employee designated
by the Board to give orders, or disobey or disregard the notices, prohibitions,
instructions or directions on any park sign, including rules and regulations of
swimming pools, playground areas, civic centers, shelter houses, museums or
zoological or botanical gardens posted on the grounds or buildings or
structures connected with or used for any purpose under the jurisdiction,
control, operation or supervision of the Board;
   (B)   Use threatening, abusive or insulting language;
   (C)   Do, engage in, or aid or abet any obscene or indecent act;
   (D)   Throw, cast or propel stones or other missiles;
   (E)   Solicit alms, subscriptions or contributions for any purpose;
   (F)   Molest or annoy any person;
   (G)   Interfere with, encumber, obstruct or render dangerous any part of a
park or park-street;
   (H)   Climb or lie upon any wall, fence, shelter, seat or other structure;
   (I)   Do any act tending to or amounting to a breach of peace;
   (J)   Enter or leave any park except at established entrance ways and exits
at established times; use or gain admittance to, or attempt to use or gain
admittance to, any facilities or events in the park for the use of which or
admittance to which a charge is made without paying the charge or price fixed
by the Board or its duly authorized agent or officer;
   (K)   Engage in, instigate or encourage a contention or fight;
   (L)   Do, aid, abet or assist in doing any act injurious to any person;
   (M)   Dress or undress behind shrubs or other structures, or in any place
not designated by the Board for such purposes;
   (N)   Act as crier or advertise through the media of voice, public address
system, amplifier, loud speaker or other mechanical device in parks, park-
streets or beaches;
   (O)   Appear in or upon any park or park-street while intoxicated or under
the influence of intoxicating liquor; and
   (P)   No person shall pick up, remove, carry away or steal any article or
object having to do with the park or an agent thereof or person connected
therewith.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.031 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall bring beer, ale or other alcoholic beverages, or any or all
controlled substances, into any park or consume, have in possession, sell, give
away or handle any intoxicating or alcoholic beverages or controlled substances
in any park.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.032 EXPLOSIVES, FIREARMS, WEAPONS AND MISSILES.
   (A)   No person shall bring into or have in his or her possession in any
park any firearms, slingshots, firecrackers, torpedoes, fireworks or other
missile-propelling instruments or explosives, including any substance,
compound, mixture or article having properties of such a character that, along
or in combination or contiguity with other substances, mixtures, compounds or
articles, may propel missiles or may decompose suddenly and generate sufficient
heat, sound, gas or pressure, or any or all of these, to produce rapid flame,
combustion or noxious or dangerous odors or sounds such as to annoy any other
person or to injure any person or property.
   (B)   No person shall shoot or propel any missile, pellet, shot, arrow, dart
or other thing by means of any firearm, compressed air or gas propulsion
device, bow, slingshot or propelling device of any kind in or into any park,
except under a permit granted by the Board or within a regularly conducted
event authorized by, or conducted by, the Board or the Superintendent of Parks
and Recreation of the Department of Parks.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.033 FIRES; LIGHTED CIGARS AND CIGARETTES.
   (A)   No person shall kindle, build, maintain or use a fire, except in
fireplaces provided for the purpose or under special permit.
   (B)   Any fire shall be continuously under the care and direction of a
competent person over 21 years of age from the time it is kindled until it is
extinguished, and no fire shall be built within ten feet of any tree or
building, or beneath the branches of any trees, or in any underbrush.
   (C)   No person shall throw away or discard any lighted match, cigar or
cigarette in any park.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.034 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   No person shall in any park drive or operate a vehicle within or upon
a safety zone, walk or any part of any park designated or customarily used for
such purposes.
   (B)   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorized vehicle in any park except
in places designated for such riding, but persons may push such machines in
single file to and from such places.
   (C)   No person may park any vehicle in front of and within 20 feet of the
entrance or exit of any field house, stadium, swimming pool, bathhouse or other
building or structure where accommodations are provided for seating people.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.035 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   No person shall in any park operate, drive or propel, or cause to be
operated, driven or propelled, any vehicle recklessly or negligently, or at a
speed or in such a manner so as to endanger the life, limb, safety, comfort or
property of any person.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
ANIMALS
§ 95.050 PROTECTION OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall within any park molest, kill, wound, trap, hunt, chase,
shoot or throw missiles at, remove or have in his or her possession any feral
animal, reptile, bird, bird’s nest or squirrel’s nest; or remove the young of
any such animal or the eggs or young of any such reptile or bird; or knowingly
buy, receive, have in his or her possession, sell or give away any such animal,
reptile, bird or eggs so killed or taken.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.051 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No person owning or being custodian or having control of any animal shall
cause or permit such animal to go at large in any park. A dog may be brought
into a park, provided that such dog is continuously restrained by a leash not
exceeding six feet in length, except that no dog will be permitted in, upon or
on buildings, playgrounds or bathing areas, swimming pools, stands, concert
areas, seats, seating areas, sun decks adjacent to swimming pools, areas where
food is purveyed, kept or prepared or other areas designated by signs as
prohibited areas. Any animal found at large may be seized and impounded or
disposed of pursuant to law or ordinance. No person having the care of any dog
or other animal shall permit such animal to enter or drink the water of any
drinking fountain or swimming pool in any park except at places designated or
maintained therefor.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.052 HORSES.
   No person shall use, ride or drive a horse in the park unless authorized to
do so by the Board, except in areas designated by the Board.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
ACTIVITIES, PURSUITS AND SALES
§ 95.065 PICNICS AND OUTINGS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to reserve any area in the park, including shelter
houses, for purposes of conducting a picnic, family reunion or other outing
must first obtain a permit from the Park Director or Park Superintendent. The
failure of any person to obtain such a permit shall result in their being no
reservation of the area or shelter house for use of the picnic. Any person
having first obtained such a permit shall have priority to the area so reserved
for his or her use, and any person using said area during the period of time
covered by the reservation shall surrender such area to the person holding said
permit.
   (B)   The Park Director or Park Superintendent is authorized to collect a
reasonable fee, to be set and established by the Park Board periodically, for
such permit.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.066 CAMPING.
   No person shall camp or maintain a tent, shelter or camp in any park without
a permit from the Board or its duly authorized officers.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.067 MEETINGS, EXHIBITIONS, PARADES AND RACING.
   (A)   No person shall erect any structure, stand or platform, or exhibit any
dramatic performance or the performance, in whole or in part, of any
entertainment, motion picture, public fair or show of any kind, or parade,
drill or maneuver of any kind, or run or race any animal or vehicle, or hold
any athletic contest, in any park or upon any park-street except by permit.
   (B)   The Board may, in its discretion, issue such permit upon application
when it is consistent with the proper use and protection of the park property
under its jurisdiction and refuse same when inconsistent with proper use and
protection of park property.
   (C)   No person shall erect any structure, stand or platform, hold any
meeting, perform any ceremony, make a speech, address or oration or exhibit or
distribute any sign, placard, notice, declaration or appeal in any park except
by permit of the Board.
   (D)   (1)   Upon application, such permit shall be issued unless:
         (a)   The use for which the permit is sought is of a commercial
nature;
         (b)   The location selected is not suitable because it is inconsistent
with one of the specialized park use areas, such as skating rinks, ball
diamonds, camping areas, athletic fields, landscaped areas or limited use
areas, swimming pools or recreational areas; and
         (c)   The date and time requested has previously been allocated by
permit, or would obstruct and interfere substantially with park use and
enjoyment by the public.
      (2)   Provided, however, no permit shall be issued for any unlawful
purpose or for any person, group or organization which is subversive or
disloyal to the United States, or who might incite a riot, or who are engaged
in activities calculated to provoke racial or religious discrimination or
prejudices.
      (3)   Whenever a permit is denied by reason of division (D)(1)(a), (D)(1)
(b) or (D)(1)(3) above (exclusive of the provision clause in division (D)(2)
above), alternative suitable locations and dates shall be offered to the
applicant.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.068 GAMES.
   No person shall in any park throw, cast, catch, kick or strike any ball or
other object, or engage in any sport, game or competition, except in places
suitable and adequate therefor.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.069 MODEL DEVICES.
   No person shall in any park engage in toy aviation, model boating, model
automobiling or model airplane flying, except at places designated or
maintained therefor.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.070 GAMBLING.
   No person shall play games of chance, sell fortunes or futures, participate
in the conduct of a lottery or use any slot machine, gaming table or
instrument, or bring into the park or have in his or her possession while there
any implements or devices commonly used or intended to be used for gambling
purposes.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.071 BATHING.
   No person shall bathe, wade or swim in any waters under the jurisdiction of
the Board, except at such times and in such places as the Board may designate
or maintain as bathing areas, and except in bathing costume or other than
ordinary attire. No person shall bathe, wade or swim, or appear in any such
bathing area, unless covered with a bathing suit having trunks properly
supported with straps or other devices, which must be kept in place at all
times. No person shall dress or undress in any park except in such places as
may be designated or maintained for the purpose.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.072 VENDORS.
   No vendor, hawker or huckster shall stop or remain on any part of the right-
of-way of service roads or entrances.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.073 PEDDLING, SALES AND PHOTOGRAPHS.
   (A)   No person shall in any park, or to any person in any park, sell,
exhibit or offer for sale, hire or lease any object, merchandise, service or
anything, except under a permit; or for advertising or commercial purposes,
take moving pictures or photographs within any park, or buy or sell or publish
the negatives thereof or the prints thereof, or exhibit such negatives or
prints in public, or use pictures or photographs of any park or park structure;
or perform any personal service for hire in any park, except under a permit or
otherwise in accordance with the terms of such permit. Possession of objects or
merchandise in quantities, packages or containers customarily associated with
peddling shall be deemed to be prima facie evidence of exhibiting or offering
for sale.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall forbid the Board, in its discretion,
from granting concession contracts and privileges to any concessionaire or
permittee on such terms and conditions as the Board may determine.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.074 ADVERTISING.
   No person shall distribute or display any flag, banner, sign or other matter
for advertising purposes within any park. No person shall display by means of
aircraft, kite, balloon, aerial bomb or any other device any flag, banner, sign
or other matter for advertising purposes above the surface of any park. No
person shall operate any musical instrument, or drum, or loud speaker,
amplifier or siren, or cause any noise to be made within any park for
advertising purposes or for the purpose of attracting to any exhibition,
performance or other spectacle.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.075 CONSTRUCTION WORK.
   No person shall perform construction work of any kind, or work incidental
thereto, in any park without a permit or under a contract with the Board.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
VEHICLES
§ 95.090 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   All persons shall heed and comply with the directions of police
officers, indicated by gesture or otherwise, in using parks or park-streets and
shall further comply with directions on traffic signs along the routes in the
parks and along park-streets. Directions on such traffic signs may be
disregarded only on an order of a police officer.
   (B)   In parking spaces, all persons shall comply with the directions of a
park employee.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.091 U-TURNS.
   U-turns are prohibited in any park except when specifically allowed by an
officer or by a traffic- direction sign.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.092 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall cause or permit any vehicle to obstruct traffic in any park
or park-street, or to stop such vehicle except at those places specifically
designated or maintained for the purpose of stopping or parking, except in
cases of emergency.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.093 DRIVING OFF PAVEMENT.
   No vehicle shall be operated or driven off the improved or paved roadways of
any park. Disabled vehicles may be driven off the roadway so as to prevent
obstruction of traffic, but no disabled vehicle shall be permitted to remain in
a park for a longer period than two hours.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.094 PARKING AT NIGHT.
   No person shall between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. park a vehicle in any park
area.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.095 DRIVING INSTRUCTION; STUDENT DRIVERS.
   (A)   Instructions in operating automobiles or motorcycles is prohibited in
parks and on park-streets.
   (B)   No person who may not lawfully operate a vehicle within the state or
town shall drive or operate a vehicle within any park.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.096 TOWING AND PROJECTING ARTICLES.
   No person shall cause or permit a vehicle to be towed by another vehicle in
any park, except that in case of breakdown, a disabled vehicle may be towed to
the nearest exit.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.097 WORKING ON VEHICLES.
   No person in any park shall clean, polish, grease, lubricate or make repairs
to any vehicles except for those of a minor nature, and then only in cases of
emergency, except that persons may park their automobiles for purposes of
cleaning and polishing in those areas designated for parking or which may be
set aside for such purpose by the Park Board.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.098 EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall drive or operate in any park a vehicle not equipped as
provided by law or which may not lawfully be operated within the state; or use
any “cut-out,” fitting, apparatus or device which allows its exhaust gases to
escape therefrom without first passing through a muffler or silencer; or drive
a vehicle emitting offensive quantities of smoke, oil, gas or disagreeable
odors; or use any gong, siren or whistle on any vehicle not operated by a
public authority.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.099 RESTRICTIONS ON VEHICLES, VEHICLE LOADS.
   (A)   Commercial vehicles.
      (1)   Vehicles constructed or adapted for or engaged in carrying
merchandise, and trucks and trailers, are prohibited from using any park,
except under a permit where necessary to make deliveries in such park.
      (2)   Wherever service roads adjoin the main roadway to a park, such
vehicles are required to use the service roads set apart for such use. In all
cases, such vehicles must enter the park from the nearest street’s intersection
or entrance in the direction of traffic and leave by the nearest intersecting
street or exit in the direction of traffic.
   (B)   Refuse or heavy materials. No garbage, ashes, manure or other
offensive material shall be carried through any park. When such refuse is to be
removed from premises fronting on any park or park-street, the vehicle
collecting the same must leave the park or park-street as soon as the
collection has been accomplished.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.100 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, HORSEBACK RIDING.
   No person shall operate within the confines of any park of the town a
snowmobile or go-kart, and no horse riding shall be allowed in the park, unless
there are specific areas designated by the Board for such activities.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.101 AVIATION.
   (A)   No person shall voluntarily bring, land or cause to descend or alight
within or upon any park any airplane, balloon, parachute or other apparatus for
aviation. VOLUNTARILY, in this connection, shall mean anything other than a
forced landing.
   (B)   Any landing other than one caused by mechanical or structural failure
of the aircraft or any of its parts shall be deemed to have been made
voluntarily, and this shall include landings by error or oversight, negligence
or failure to comply with any Civil Aeronautics Authority regulations or
rulings.
(Ord. 84-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
95.999
OTHER MUNICIPAL PARKS AND PARK PROPERTY
§ 95.115 MEMORIAL POCKET PARK.
   There is hereby established within the town a new memorial pocket park to be
known as “Lieutenant General Robert E. Pursley Veterans Park,” in order to
honor all veterans.
§ 95.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who is found to be in violation of any
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not
exceeding $300. Each day that the person is found to be in violation of this
chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 9-4-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
111.   ALCOHOL
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Registration license required; carrying and display
   
110.03   Exceptions and exemptions
   
110.04   Application for registration license
   
110.05   Registration license fee
   
110.06   Issuance, use and surrender of registration license
   
110.07   Regulation of business activities
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMODITY. Any real or personal property, merchandise, produce, intangible
asset or security (including any insurance policy), subscription, membership,
ticket or work or service to be performed by contract or agreement, other than
as an employee or agent of the person for whom the work or service is
performed, irrespective of whether any of the aforementioned are offered for
immediate or future delivery.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person who sells or offers for sale any commodity
and who:
      (1)   Conducts the business by standing or moving about on streets,
sidewalks or other public places, or by operating from a portable stand,
pushcart or vehicle not constituting a fixed and established place of business;
or
      (2)   Operates as a TRANSIENT MERCHANT, conducting the business from a
room, building, structure or lot rented or leased for the purpose of carrying
on the business and with intent to do so for less than a continuous period of
365 days.
   PEDDLER. Any person who sells or offers for sale any commodity by traveling
door-to-door between dwelling places or business establishments which are
located within the corporate limits of the town without the prior consent of or
arrangement by the occupant of the premises or his or her presumptive agent.
(Ord. 1966-1, passed 2-7-1966; Ord. 2015-06, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 110.02 REGISTRATION LICENSE REQUIRED; CARRYING AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or itinerant merchant to solicit,
sell or offer for sale any commodity to any person within the corporate limits
of the town without first having registered with the Clerk-Treasurer and having
been issued a registration license from the Town Police Department, except as
provided in §
110.03 of this chapter.
   (B)   Every registrant shall carry his or her registration license with him
or her at all times while engaged in selling or soliciting and shall, when so
required either by an officer or a private person with whom the registrant is,
or is attempting to, conduct business, produce and show the person or officer
the registration license.
(Ord. 1966-1, passed 2-7-1966; Ord. 2015-06, passed 12-7-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The following described persons are exempt from the registration
requirements imposed under §
110.02 of this chapter for the purposes indicated:
   (A)   A person selling commodities for the bona fide purpose of raising
funds in support of a nonprofit charitable, educational, scientific, religious
or civic organization or purpose when no part of the net proceeds are retained
by the person for his or her own benefit;
   (B)   A person soliciting subscriptions to newspapers;
   (C)   A person selling unprocessed produce or food goods during any
community function or farmers market, which sales comply with I.C. 16-42-5-29;
   (D)   A person selling his or her own property which was not originally
acquired for purposes of resale;
   (E)   A person holding a wholesale or retail merchants license who,
temporarily and incidentally to the conduct of his or her regular business,
conducts a sale of commodities from a temporary structure on his or her own
premises, or conducts the sale from different premises but under the name of
his or her regularly established and licenses business;
   (F)   Honorably discharged military service veterans of a class described by
I.C. 10-17-5-1 or I.C. 10-17-5-2 who have obtained a license from the County
Auditor pursuant to I.C. 25-25-2-1, and who limit their activities to vending,
hawking or peddling goods, wares, fruits and merchandise; or
   (G)   Manufacturers, producers, wholesalers, wholesale distributors, jobbers
or their authorized sales representatives soliciting orders from retail
merchants or other wholesale consumers or wholesale distributors at the
latter’s place of business.
(Ord. 1966-1, passed 2-7-1966; Ord. 2015-06, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION LICENSE.
   (A)   Each itinerant merchant or peddler shall, prior to engaging in sales
or related activities, apply to the Clerk-Treasurer for a license to do so.
   (B)   Each applicant shall furnish to the Clerk-Treasurer the following
information:
      (1)   Name;
      (2)   Permanent address;
      (3)   Local address;
      (4)   Date and place of birth;
      (5)   Merchandise or produce to be sold:
      (6)   Name and address of employer;
      (7)   Name and address of immediate supervisor;
      (8)   Copy of current driver’s license or photo identification; and
      (9)   Make, model, year, color and license plate number of all vehicles
being used.
(Ord. 1966-1, passed 2-7-1966; Ord. 2015-06, passed 12-7-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 REGISTRATION LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The applicant shall pay to the Clerk-Treasurer an application fee of
$25 for a 90-day registration license. The registration license shall not be
transferable, and if the registrant wishes to continue his or her business
after expiration of his or her license, a new registration license must be
obtained.
   (B)   Should any business employ more than one person as an itinerant
merchant or peddler, each employee shall be required to furnish the Clerk-
Treasurer with the information required under §
110.04 of this chapter, with each employee charged a fee of $5 in addition to
the $25 license registration fee for the business.
   (C)   By signing the registration application, each itinerant merchant or
peddler agrees to submit to fingerprinting and/or a criminal background check
if required by the Town Marshal or Deputy.
(Ord. 1966-1, passed 2-7-1966; Ord. 2015-06, passed 12-7-2015)
§ 110.06 ISSUANCE, USE AND SURRENDER OF REGISTRATION LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon fulfillment of §§
110.04 and
110.05 of this chapter, the Clerk-Treasurer shall forward the application to
the Town Police Department. The Town Marshal/Deputy shall issue, over his or
her signature and the seal of the town, a registration license, which shall
contain the information set forth in §
110.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   The itinerant merchant/peddler is required to carry the registration
license on his or her person while engaged in business and to surrender it upon
his or her departure from the town or upon the expiration of the license
period, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 1966-1, passed 2-7-1966; Ord. 2015-06, passed 12-7-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 REGULATION OF BUSINESS ACTIVITIES.
   The following regulations govern the conduct of business under a
registration license.
   (A)   No peddler or itinerant merchant may sell nor offer to sell any
commodity, except newspapers, to the occupant of any dwelling place by going
from dwelling place to dwelling place before 10:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m.
local time, Monday through Saturday, without first securing permission from a
resident of the dwelling.
   (B)   No peddler or itinerant merchant shall ask for nor accept an
invitation to enter a dwelling house from a minor child.
   (C)   No minor child shall be asked to buy anything nor to answer any
personal questions without his or her parent or guardian being present.
   (D)   The owner, occupant or person in charge of any premises may place a
sign at the door or other entrance to the premises saying “NO SOLICITING” or
“NO PEDDLING” or other wording of clearly similar meaning, and all peddlers
shall be obligated to honor and observe the sign.
(Ord. 1966-1, passed 2-7-1966; Ord. 2015-06, passed 12-7-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine of $50 for the first violation; however, the
first time a person, firm or corporation is cited under this chapter, they may
avoid paying the fine by complying with §§
110.02 and
110.03 of this chapter within one business day of being cited for violating
this chapter.
   (B)   A fine of $100 shall be assessed for a second violation of this
chapter.
   (C)   A fine of $250 shall be assessed for the third and all subsequent
violations of this chapter.
   (D)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (E)   The Clerk-Treasurer or Town Marshal shall have the right to revoke a
registration license issued under this chapter for continued noncompliance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 1966-1, passed 2-7-1966; Ord. 2015-06, passed 12-7-2015)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL
Section
   
111.01   Liquor retailer’s permits enabled
§ 111.01 LIQUOR RETAILER’S PERMITS ENABLED.
   The town hereby consents to the issuance of liquor retailer’s permits to
applicant’s with respect to premises located within the town. The intent of
this section is the passage of an “enabling ordinance” in accordance with the
terms of I.C. 7.1-3-9-3.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 5-4-2005)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   BB guns, pellet guns and similar devices
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct by motor vehicle
   
130.03   Disturbing places of worship or meetings
   
130.04   Interfering with officials
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 BB GUNS, PELLET GUNS AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   It is hereby prohibited for any person to fire a BB gun, a pellet gun, a set
of bow and arrows, or any similar device, in the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 1965-1, passed 7-12-1965) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT BY MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person, firm or corporation, or any other entity, shall operate or cause
to be operated a motor vehicle on the streets or public highways of the town in
such a manner or with such equipment when operating so as to make, create,
facilitate, increase or maintain any unreasonably loud or any other unnecessary
or excessive or unreasonable noise which does unreasonably annoy, disturb or
otherwise unreasonably endanger the comfort or repose, or the peace and quiet,
of any other person or of any other neighborhood within the town.
(Ord. 95-01, passed 7-26-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISTURBING PLACES OF WORSHIP OR MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the town by any loud
or unnecessary talking or shouting, or by any threatening, abusive, profane or
obscene language or violent action, or by any other rude behavior, to
interrupt, molest, annoy or disturb any group of persons convened for the
purpose of worship, or in like manner to interrupt, molest, annoy or disturb
any meeting of persons met together for any lawful purpose.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed 6-3-1970) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 INTERFERING WITH OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to intentionally impede
or interfere with, or attempt to impede or interfere with, any police officer,
firefighter or any other town official in the performance of his or her duty or
emergency functions as a police officer, firefighter or town official.
   (B)   (1) A person who does any of the following commits obstruction of
justice, a Level 6 felony, except as provided in division (B)(2) below:
         (a)   Knowingly or intentionally induces, by threat, coercion, false
statement or offer of goods, services or anything of value, a witness or
informant in an official proceeding or investigation to:
            1.   Withhold or unreasonably delay in producing any testimony,
information, document, or thing;
            2.   Avoid legal process summoning the person to testify or supply
evidence; or
            3.   Absent the person from a proceeding or investigation to which
the person has been legally summoned.
         (b)   Knowingly or intentionally in an official criminal proceeding or
investigation:
            1.   Withholds or unreasonably delays in producing any testimony,
information, document or thing after a court orders the person to produce the
testimony, information, document or thing;
            2.   Voids legal process summoning the person to testify or supply
evidence; or
            3.   Absents the person from a proceeding or investigation to which
the person has been legally summoned.
         (c)   Alters, damages or removes any record, document or thing, with
intent to prevent it from being produced or used as evidence in any official
proceeding or investigation;
         (d)   Makes, presents or uses a false record, document or thing with
intent that the record, document or thing, material to the point in question,
appear in evidence in an official proceeding or investigation to mislead a
public servant; or
         (e)   Communicates, directly or indirectly, with a juror otherwise
than as authorized by law, with intent to influence the juror regarding any
matter that is or may be brought before the juror.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(5) below, the offense described
in division (B)(1) above is a Level 5 felony if, during the investigation or
pendency of a domestic violence or child abuse case under division (B)(3)
below, a person knowingly or intentionally does any of the following to any
witness in order to abstain from attending or giving testimony at any hearing,
trial, deposition, probation or other criminal proceeding or from giving
testimony or other statements to a court or law enforcement officer under I.C.
35-31.5-2-185:
         (a)   Offers, gives or promises any benefit to;
         (b)   Communicates a threat as defined by I.C. 35-45-2-1(c) to; or
         (c)   Intimidates, unlawfully influences or unlawfully persuades.
      (3)   As used in this section, DOMESTIC VIOLENCE OR CHILD ABUSE CASE
means any case involving an allegation of:
         (a)   The commission of a crime involving domestic or family violence
under I.C. 35-31.5-2-76 involving a family or household member under I.C. 35-
31.5-2-128;
         (b)   The commission of a crime of domestic violence under I.C. 35-
31.5-2-78 involving a family or household member under I.C. 35-31.5-2-128; or
         (c)   Physical abuse, sexual abuse, or child neglect, including crimes
listed under I.C. 35-31.5-2-76 involving a victim who was less than 18 years of
age at the time of the offense, whether or not the person is a family or
household member under I.C. 35-31.5-2-128.
      (4)   Division (B)(1)(a)1. above does not apply to:
         (a)   A person who qualifies for a special privilege under I.C. 34-46-
4 with respect to the testimony, information, document or thing; or
         (b)   A person who identifies as any of the following is not required
to testify under I.C. 34-46-3-1:
            1.   An attorney;
            2.   A physician;
            3.   A member of the clergy; or
            4.   A husband or wife.
      (5)   Division (B)(2) above does not apply to any of the following
persons engaged in that person’s professional or official duties:
         (a)   An attorney;
         (b)   An investigator;
         (c)   A law enforcement officer; or
         (d)   A judge.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed 6-3-1970) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person so firing such a device as set out in §
130.01 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than $2 for each
occurrence.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
130.03 or
130.04 of this chapter, or any order made by the Town Council in accordance
with the terms of §§
130.03 or
130.04, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment
for a period not to exceed six months.
   (D)   (1)   The violation of the provisions of §
130.02 of this chapter shall constitute an infraction, Class C infraction,
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 34-4-32-1 et seq., including, but not
limited to, the provisions of I.C. 34-4-32-4 and any successor law, which
offense is known as “disorderly conduct by a motor vehicle,” and which may be
punishable by a judgment or fine up to $500, together with costs and other
penalties as provided by the provisions of I.C. 34-4-32-4.
      (2)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity violating the terms
and provisions of §
130.02 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in the sum not exceeding
$500, plus costs, and other penalties as provided for a Class C infraction
pursuant to the provisions of I.C. 34-4-32-1 et seq., including, but not
limited to, the provisions of I.C. 34-4-32-4 and all other applicable law.
(Ord. 74, passed 4-25-1904; Ord. 1965-1, passed 7-12-1965; Ord. 1970-1, passed
6-3-1970; Ord. 95-01, passed 7-26-1995)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
Section
Curfew
   
131.01   Curfew for minors less than 15 years of age
   
131.02   Curfew for minors 15, 16 or 17 years of age
   
131.03   Exceptions
   
131.04   Responsibility of parents, guardians or custodians
 
   
131.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 131.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS LESS THAN 15 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It is a curfew violation for a child less than 15 years of age to be
in a public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
   (B)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      (1)   The child has violated this section; and
      (2)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-16-2000) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS 15, 16 OR 17 YEARS OF AGE.
   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be in a
public place:
   (A)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
   (B)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday; or
   (C)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
   (D)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of this section unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      (1)   The child has violated this section; and
      (2)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-16-2000) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is a defense to a violation under §§
131.01 and
131.02 that the child was emancipated in any of the following ways at the time
that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct:
      (1)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
      (2)   By virtue of having married; or
      (3)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation under §§
131.01 and
131.02 that the child engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian
or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States,
or Article 1, § 31 of the Constitution of the State, or both, such as freedom
of speech and the right of assembly; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision
of one or more adults.
      (4)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written
direction of the child’s parent, guardian or custodian; or
      (5)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside the state to another location outside the state.
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-16-2000)
§ 131.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS, GUARDIANS OR CUSTODIANS.
   No parent, guardian or custodian shall permit any child who is under his or
her care, custody or control to violate §§
131.01 or
131.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-16-2000) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any minor child under the age of 18 who is convicted of a
violation of §§
131.01 or
131.02 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in the following amount:
         (a)   First offense: $25 to $50, plus court costs;
         (b)   Second offense: $50 to $100, plus court costs; or
         (c)   Subsequent offenses: $100 to $500, plus court costs.
      (2)   Any parent, guardian or custodian who is convicted of allowing a
child under the age of 18 to act in violation of §§
131.01 or
131.02 shall be subject to a fine in the following amount:
         (a)   First offense: $25 to $50, plus court costs;
         (b)   Second offense: $50 to $100, plus court costs; or
         (c)   Subsequent offenses: $100 to $500, plus court costs.
(Ord. 2000-6, passed 10-16-2000)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS
      
153.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS
      
154.   COUNTY CODES ADOPTED
CHAPTER 150: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Scope
   
150.04   Authority
   
150.05   Right of entry
   
150.06   Violations
   
150.07   Right of appeal
   
150.08   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
150.09   Permit required
   
150.10   Plans
   
150.11   Compliance with other ordinances
   
150.12   Review of application
   
150.13   Inspections
   
150.14   Stop-work orders
   
150.15   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.16   Work standards
   
150.17   Remedies
   
150.18   Interpretation
Unsafe Building Law
   
150.30   Adoption
   
150.31   Enforcement Authority
   
150.32   Hearing Authority
   
150.33   Powers and duties of Enforcement Authority
   
150.34   Performance of work ordered; costs
   
150.35   Liability for costs
   
150.36   Unsafe Building Fund
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter, and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall
be known as the “Building Code of Farmland, Indiana,” may be cited as such, and
will be referred to herein as “this Code” or “this subchapter.”
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, limb, health, environment, public safety and welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981)
§ 150.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this Code apply to the construction, alteration, repair,
use, occupancy and maintenance, and additions to, all buildings and structures,
other than fences, in the town.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981)
§ 150.04 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The County Building Commissioner, hereinafter referred to as the
Building Commissioner, after having been designated as the officer of a single
agency to administer and enforce this Code, is hereby authorized in the name of
the town to issue building permits, collect permit fees, perform inspections,
order correction of violations of this Code and authorize occupancy of
buildings and structures within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner, after having been designated as the officer
of a single agency to administer and enforce building regulations by mutual
agreement by and between the cities of Winchester and Union City and the towns
of Farmland, Losantville, Lynn, Modoc, Parker City, Ridgeville and Saratoga,
and Randolph County, in accordance with the authority contained in I.C. 17-2-
72-9, shall be authorized to issue building permits, collect permit fees,
perform inspections, order correction of violations of building regulations and
authorize occupancy of building and structures situated within the corporate
limits of the cities of Winchester and Union City and the towns of Farmland,
Losantville, Lynn, Modoc, Parker City, Ridgeville and Saratoga.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981)
§ 150.05 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Commissioner or his or
her duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises in the town to perform any duty imposed upon him or her
by this Code.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981)
§ 150.06 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure, other than fences, in the town, or cause or permit the same to be
done, contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this Code.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any person, partnership, association or corporation aggrieved by a decision
of the regulating agency shall have the right of appeal as provided in I.C.
1971-22-11-21.5, as amended, provided that a 15-day written notice of his or
her intention to do so is given to the Town Council by registered mail. The
notice shall concisely state his or her grievance.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981)
§ 150.08 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The following rules, regulations and codes are hereby adopted by
reference as the rules and regulations governing the construction and
alteration of buildings and structures in the town:
      (1)   Construction Rules and Regulations, Volume 1, 1980 edition of this
state, 660 I.A.C. 1-1.1, originally published as 3 IR 2148, which identifies,
amends and incorporates therein the Uniform Building Code, 1979 edition, and
the Uniform Building Code Standards, 1979 edition;
      (2)   This state’s Electrical Rules, 1981 edition, 660 I.A.C. 7,
originally published as 4 IR 798, which identifies, amends and incorporates
therein the National Electrical Code, 1981 edition;
      (3)   This state’s Plumbing Rules, 1981 edition, 660 I.A.C. 9, originally
published as 4 IR 2398, which identifies, amends and incorporates therein the
Uniform Plumbing Code, 1979 edition;
      (4)   This state’s Mechanical Rules, 1981 edition, 660 I.A.C. 8,
originally published as 4 IR 1828, which identifies, amends and incorporates
therein the Uniform Mechanical Code, 1979 edition;
      (5)   One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code of this state, 660 I.A.C. 3-1,
originally published as 4 IR 916, which identifies, amends and incorporates
therein the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code, 1979 edition;
      (6)   This state’s Energy Conservation Rules and Regulations for New
Building Construction, Volume 5, 1979 edition, 660 I.A.C. 4 (1980 supplement),
published under that title; and
      (7)   Swimming Pool Code, 660 I.A.C. 5 (1979 supplement), published as
this state’s Swimming Pool Code, 1978 edition.
   (B)   Copies of this Code and the rules, regulations and codes adopted
herein by reference are on file as required by law in the Office of the County
Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 1982-9, passed 10-4-1982)
§ 150.09 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration
or repair of any building or structure the cost of which exceeds $500 for
electrical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning or combination, and $1,500 for
building structure, foundation, mechanical or combination, for said
improvements using forms furnished by the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   All permits shall be issued by the Building Commissioner, and all fees
provided for herein shall be paid to the county.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10 PLANS.
   (A)   No permits shall be issued for the foregoing purposes unless the
application for such permit is accompanied by a plat or sketch of the proposed
location showing lot boundaries and by plans and specifications showing all
work to be done.
   (B)   All plans for building construction under the authority of the
Administrative Building Council of the state must also be filed with the
Administrative Building Council, who will issue an approved certificate of
compliance under the provisions of I.C. 22-11-1-12. In all such cases under the
authority of said Administrative Building Council, no local permits shall be
issued hereunder until a copy of the release for construction from the
Administrative Building Council is received by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.11 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   All work done under any permit issued hereunder shall be in full compliance
with all other ordinances pertaining thereto, and in addition to the fees for
permits provided for in §
150.10 of this chapter, there shall be paid the fees prescribed in such
ordinances.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.12 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall:
   (A)   Review all building permit applications to determine full compliance
with the provisions of this subchapter;
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the flood
plain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed repair:
      (1)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to floor damage; and
      (2)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the flood plain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes):
      (1)   Is protected against flood damage;
      (2)   Is designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
      (3)   Uses construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
      (4)   Uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981)
§ 150.13 INSPECTIONS.
   After the issuance of any building permit hereunder, the Building
Commissioner shall make such inspections of the work being done under such
permit as are necessary to ensure full compliance with the provisions of this
Code and the terms of the permit.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981)
§ 150.14 STOP-WORK ORDERS.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this Code, the
Building Commissioner may order the work stopped by notice in writing, served
on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and any
such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Building
Commissioner to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.15 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy for any building or structure erected, altered
or repaired after the adoption of this Code shall be issued unless such
building or structure was erected, altered or repaired in compliance with the
provisions of this Code.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981)
§ 150.16 WORK STANDARDS.
   All work on the construction, alteration and repair of buildings and other
structures shall be performed in a good and professional manner according to
accepted standards and practices in the trade.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 REMEDIES.
   The Building Commissioner shall, in the name of the town, bring actions in
the Circuit or County Courts for mandatory and injunctive relief in the
enforcement of, and to secure compliance with, any order or orders made by the
Building Commissioner, and any such action for amendatory or injunctive relief
may be joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in this
Code.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981)
§ 150.18 INTERPRETATION.
   Whenever in the building regulations it is provided that anything must be
done to the approval of or subject to the direction of the Building
Commissioner or any other officer of the Commission, this shall be construed to
give such officer only the discretion of determining whether the rules and
standards established by ordinance have been complied with, and no such
provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to
what such regulations, codes or standards shall be, or power to require
conditions not prescribed by ordinances or to enforce ordinance provisions in
an arbitrary or discriminating manner.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981)
UNSAFE BUILDING LAW
§ 150.30 ADOPTION.
   The town hereby incorporates by reference and adopts I.C. 36-7-9, Unsafe
Building Law.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 2008-02, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 150.31 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-3, the town hereby formally specifies that it shall
be the duty of the Town Marshal to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 2008-02, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 150.32 HEARING AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Council to act as the Hearing Authority for
all matters requiring a hearing under this subchapter.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 2008-02, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 150.33 POWERS AND DUTIES OF ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Enforcement Authority may issue an order requiring action relative
to any vacant premises deemed unsafe:
      (1)   Sealing against intrusion by unauthorized persons;
      (2)   Extermination of vermin in and about the premises;
      (3)   Removal of trash, debris or fire-hazardous material in and about
the unsafe premises;
      (4)   Repair or rehabilitation to bring the building into compliance with
any ordinance, code or statute or for human habitation, occupancy or use;
      (5)   Removal of part of a building; and
      (6)   Removal of a building.
   (B)   For any action other than that described in division (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) above, a hearing shall be held pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-7.
   (C)   An order issued by the Enforcement Authority will contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom the order is issued (which person
shall be a person having a “substantial property interest” in the premises, the
definition of which is found in I.C. 36-7-9 and which is hereby incorporated by
reference;
      (2)   The legal description or address of the unsafe premises that is the
subject of the order;
      (3)   The action that the order requires;
      (4)   The period of time in which the action is required to be
accomplished (which is to be measured from the date the notice is given);
      (5)   If a hearing is required, a statement indicating the exact time and
place of the hearing and stating that the person to whom the order was issued
is entitled to appear with or without legal counsel, present evidence, cross-
examine opposing witnesses and present arguments;
      (6)   If a hearing is not required, a statement that the order becomes
final ten days after notice is given unless a hearing is requested in writing
by a person with a “substantial property interest;”
      (7)   The following statement:
 
   A person who has been issued and has received notice of an order relative to unsafe
and abandoned premises and has not complied with said order:
      (1)   Must supply full information regarding the order to a person who takes or
agrees to take a substantial interest in the premises before transferring or agreeing to
transfer that interest; and
      (2)   Must, within five days after transferring or agreeing to transfer a
substantial property interest in the premises, supply the Town of Farmland with written
copies of the full name, address and telephone number of the person taking a substantial
property interest in the premises and the legal instrument under which the transfer or
agreement to transfer the interest is accomplished.
   If a judgment is obtained against the Town of Farmland or other governmental entity
for the failure to provide notice of its actions, a person who failed to comply with
obligation is liable to the Town of Farmland of the amount of the judgment.
 
      (8)   The name, address and telephone number of the Enforcement
Authority.
   (D)   The order must allow at least ten days from the time when notice of
the order is given to accomplish the required action. The order may be enforced
for up to two years from the day the notice is given.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 2008-02, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 150.34 PERFORMANCE OF WORK ORDERED; COSTS.
   The work required by an order of the Enforcement Authority may be performed
in the following manners.
   (A)   Work described in §
150.33(A)(1), (A)(2) and (A)(3) of this chapter may be performed without
further notice to the property owner and may be performed by a contractor who
has been awarded a base bid to perform the work or by the Enforcement Authority
acting through its own works and equipment.
   (B)   (1)   All other work described in §
150.33 of this chapter which is estimated to cost less than $5,000 may be
performed after notice to the property owner of at least ten days by the
Enforcement Authority acting through its own employees and equipment.
      (2)   Work estimated to cost more than $5,000 must be let at public bid
to a contractor licensed and qualified under law.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 2008-02, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 150.35 LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   When action required by an order is performed by the Enforcement
Authority or by a contractor, each person who held a substantial property
interest from the time the order was issued to the time the work was performed
is jointly and severally responsible for the costs thereof pursuant to I.C. 36-
7-9-12.
   (B)   Judgment for these costs shall be obtained pursuant to I.C. 36-7-9-13.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 2008-02, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 150.36 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   (A)   The Enforcement Authority has established a fund designated the Unsafe
Building Fund. Money for the Unsafe Building Fund may be received from any
source, including appropriations by local, state or federal governments and
donations.
   (B)   Any money received by judgment for costs incurred by the Enforcement
Authority for work performed shall be deposited in the Unsafe Building Fund.
(Ord. 1986-3, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 2008-02, passed 3-3-2008)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
150.01 through 150.19 of this chapter or shall do any act prohibited therein,
or shall fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined within the time prescribed
by the Building Commissioner in connection with the provisions of §§
150.01 through 150.19, for each such violation, failure or refusal, such
person, firm or corporation shall constitute a Class C infraction. Each day
such violation continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 1981-2, passed 2-2-1981)
CHAPTER 151: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Purpose of historic preservation and protection
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Historic Preservation Commission establishment, organization
   
151.04   Powers and duties of the Commission
   
151.05   Certificate of appropriateness (COA)
   
151.06   Appeal provisions
   
151.07   Interested parties
   
151.08   Judicial review
Conservation Guidelines and Requirements
   
151.20   Historic districts, conservation districts and guidelines
   
151.21   Interim protection
   
151.22   Visual compatibility
   
151.23   Paint colors
   
151.24   Maintenance
   
151.25   Preserving historical, architectural character upon alteration,
relocation mandated
   
151.26   Relationship with zoning districts
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE OF HISTORIC PRESERVATION AND PROTECTION.
   (A)   In order to promote the educational, cultural and general welfare of
the citizens of the town and to ensure the harmonious and orderly growth and
development of the municipality; to maintain established residential
neighborhoods in danger of having their distinctiveness destroyed; to enhance
property values and attract new residents; to ensure the viability of the
traditional downtown area and to enhance tourism within the town, it is deemed
essential by the town that qualities relating to its history and the harmonious
outward appearance of its structures be preserved.
   (B)   This purpose is advanced through the restoration and preservation of
historic areas and buildings, the construction of compatible new buildings,
where appropriate, and the maintenance and ensurance of compatibility in
regards to style, form, proportion, texture and material between historic
buildings and those of contemporary design. It is the intention of the town,
through this chapter, to preserve and protect historic and architecturally
worthy buildings, structures, sites, monuments, streetscapes and neighborhoods
which impart distinct aesthetic quality to the town and serve as visible
reminders of its historic heritage.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words in the present tense include the future tense. The singular
number includes the plural and the plural the singular. The word SHALL is
always mandatory. The word PERSON includes a firm, a partnership, a limited
liability company or a corporation as well as an individual. Terms not defined
in this section shall have the meanings customarily assigned to them.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALTERATION. A material or color change in the external architectural
features of any building, structure or site within a historic district.
      CLASSIFICATIONS.
         (a)   CONTRIBUTING. A “C” classification means the property is at
least 40 years old but does not meet the criteria for an “O” or “N”
classification. Such resources are important to the density or continuity of
the area’s historic fabric. CONTRIBUTING structures can be listed in the
National Register only as part of a historic district.
         (b)   NON-CONTRIBUTING. Property classified as “NC” is not included in
an inventory unless it is located within the boundaries of a historic district.
Such properties may be less than 50 years old, or they may be older structures
that have been altered in such a way that they have lost their historic
character, or they may be otherwise incompatible with their historic
surroundings. These properties are not eligible for listing in the National
Register.
         (c)   NOTABLE. A classification of “N” means that the property does
not merit the outstanding rating, but it is still above average in its
importance. A NOTABLE structure may be eligible for the National Register.
         (d)   OUTSTANDING. The “O” classification means that the property has
sufficient historic or architectural significance that it is listed, or is
eligible for individual listing, in the National Register of Historic Places.
OUTSTANDING resources can be of local, state or national importance.
      DEMOLITION. The complete or substantial removal of any building,
structure or site located in a historic district.
      HISTORIC DISTRICT. A single building, structure, object or site, or a
concentration of buildings, structures, objects, spaces or sites, the
boundaries of which are described or delineated on a map approved in an
ordinance adopted under this chapter.
      INTERESTED PARTY. One of the following:
         (a)   The Town Council;
         (b)   The Town Historic Preservation Commission;
         (c)   Historic Farmland;
         (d)   A neighborhood association, whether incorporated or
unincorporated, a majority of whose members are residents of a historic
district designated by an ordinance adopted under this chapter;
         (e)   An owner or occupant of property located in a historic district
established by an ordinance adopted under this chapter;
         (f)   Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana, Inc., or any of its
successors; or
         (g)   The State Historic Preservation Officer designated under I.C.
14-3-3.4-10.
      PRESERVATION GUIDELINES. Criteria, locally developed, which identify
local design concerns in an effort to assist property owners in maintaining the
character of the designated district or building during the process of
rehabilitation or new construction.
      PRIMARY AREA. The principal area of historic and/or architectural
significance within a historic district, as delineated on the map establishing
the boundaries of the historic district.
      ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Work for which no certificate of appropriateness is
required.
      SECONDARY AREA. An area in a historic district, delineated on the map
establishing the boundaries of the historic district, that is adjacent to a
primary area and which has a visual relationship to the primary area and could
affect the preservation of the primary area. The purpose of designating a
SECONDARY AREA is to assure its compatibility and harmony with an adjacent
primary area.
      STREETSCAPE. Appearance from a public way, the distinguishing
characteristics of which are created by the width of the street and sidewalks,
their paving materials and color, the design of the street furniture (such as
street lights, trash receptacles, benches and the like), use of plant materials
such as trees and shrubs and the setback, mass and proportion of those
buildings which enclose the street.
      TOWN. The Town of Farmland, Indiana.
      VISUAL COMPATIBILITY. Those elements of design that meet the guidelines
set out in §
151.25 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.03 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION ESTABLISHMENT, ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby established the Historic Preservation
Commission of the town, hereinafter referred to as the “Commission.”
   (B)   Composition.
      (1)   The Commission shall consist of not less than three nor more than
nine voting members. The voting members shall be appointed by the President of
the Town Council, subject to the approval of the majority of the Town Council
members, and shall be residents of the town who are interested in the
preservation and development of historic areas.
      (2)   The members of the Commission should include professionals in the
disciplines of architectural history, planning and other disciplines related to
historic preservation to the extent that those professionals are available in
the community.
      (3)   Nonvoting, advisory member(s) may be appointed to the Commission by
the President of the Town Council with approval by the majority of the members
of the Town Council.
      (4)   Commission members shall serve without compensation, except for
reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (C)   Term. Voting members shall serve for a term of three years; however,
the initial terms of members shall be for one year, two years and three years
in order for the terms to be staggered. The term for nonvoting, advisory
members shall be for three years. A vacancy shall be filled within 90 days for
the duration of the term.
   (D)   Commission Administrator. A Town Administrator designated by the
President of the Town Council shall serve as the ex-officio administrator of
the Commission. The Administrator shall provide staff assistance to the
Commission, act as the Commission’s Secretary and issue certificates of
appropriateness as directed by the Commission.
   (E)   Officers. The Commission shall elect from its membership a
Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Treasurer, who shall serve for one year and
who may be reelected.
   (F)   Rules. The Commission shall adopt rules consistent with this chapter
for the transaction of its business. The rules must include the time and place
of regular meetings and a procedure for the calling of special meetings.
   (G)   Meetings. Commission meetings must be open to the public in accordance
with the state’s Open Door Law, and a public record shall be kept of the
Commission’s resolutions, proceedings and actions. The Commission shall hold
regular meetings at least monthly, except when it has no business pending.
Special meetings may be called in a manner determined by the Commission and its
rules.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission shall be concerned with those elements of
development, redevelopment, rehabilitation and preservation that affect visual
quality in a historic district, which include, but are not limited to,
viewsheds, landscapes and streetscapes of historic importance.
      (2)   The Commission may not consider details of design, interior
arrangements or building features if those details, arrangements or features
are not subject to public view and may not make any requirement except for the
purpose of preventing development, alteration or demolition in the historic
district obviously incongruous with the historic district.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct surveys and establish historic districts
in accordance with the provisions of §
151.20 of this chapter.
   (C)   The Commission may adopt preservation guidelines for architectural
review. If adopted, preservation guidelines shall be published and made readily
accessible to the general public.
   (D)   The Commission has the authority to receive funds in order to promote
its stated purpose.
   (E)   The Commission shall promote public interest in historic preservation
by initiating and carrying on a public relations and community education
program.
   (F)   The Commission, through this chapter, may:
      (1)   Acquire by purchase, gift, grant, bequest, devise or lease any real
or personal property, including easements, that is appropriate for carrying out
the purposes of the Commission;
      (2)   Hold title to real and personal property; and
      (3)   Sell, lease, rent or otherwise dispose of real and personal
property at a public or private sale on the terms and conditions that the
Commission considers best.
   (G)   The Commission shall establish procedures that the Commission must
follow in acquiring and disposing of property.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.05 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS (COA).
   (A)   Certificate required. A certificate of appropriateness (COA) must be
issued by the Commission before a permit is issued for, or work is begun on,
any of the following:
      (1)   Within all areas of a historic district:
         (a)   The demolition of any building or structure;
         (b)   The moving of any building or structure;
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of any historic
building or any part of or appurtenance to such a building, including walls,
fences, light fixtures, steps, paving and signs by additions, reconstruction,
alteration or maintenance involving exterior color change, if cited by
individual ordinance; or
         (d)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
      (2)   Within a primary area of a historic district:
         (a)   A change in walls and fences, or the construction of walls and
fences along public ways; or
         (b)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration and/or maintenance involving exterior color change.
      (3)   Within a conservation district:
         (a)   The moving of any building;
         (b)   The demolition of any building; or
         (c)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
   (B)   Application for a certificate.
      (1)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be made
in the Office of the Commission or its designee on forms provided by that
Office.
      (2)   All applications shall be subject to the rules and requirements
established by the Commission.
      (3)   Rules may include, but are not limited to, filing deadlines and
application requirements such as sketches, drawings, photographs, descriptions
or other information which the Commission requires to make a decision.
   (C)   Approval or denial of a certificate.
      (1)   The Commission may approve or deny certificates of appropriateness
for any actions covered by this chapter.
      (2)   If an application for a certificate of appropriateness is approved
by the Commission, or is not acted on by the Commission within 30 days after it
is filed, a certificate of appropriateness shall be issued. The Commission may
grant an extension of the 30-day limit if the applicant agrees to it.
      (3)   The Commission must report its findings and the reasons for its
decision in written form and supply the applicant with a copy of its report. A
copy of the certificate of appropriateness must be submitted with the
application for a building or demolition permit; no building or demolition
permit shall be issued unless a copy of the certificate of appropriateness is
provided by the applicant with the application; and
   (D)   Criteria for considering effect of actions on historic buildings.
      (1)   The Commission, in considering the appropriateness of any
reconstruction, alteration, maintenance or moving of a historic building,
structure, site or any part of or appurtenance to such building or structure,
including walls, fences, light fixtures, steps, paving and signs, shall require
that such work be done in a manner that will preserve the historical and
architectural character of the building, structure or appurtenance.
      (2)   In considering historic and architectural character, the Commission
shall consider, among other things, the following:
         (a)   Purposes of this chapter;
         (b)   Historical and architectural value and significance of the
building, structure, site or appurtenance;
         (c)   Compatibility and significance of additions, alterations,
details, materials or other non- original elements which may be of a different
style and construction date than the original;
         (d)   The texture, material, color, style and detailing of the
building, structure, site or appurtenance;
         (e)   The continued preservation and protection of original or
otherwise significant structures, materials and ornamentation;
         (f)   The relationship of buildings, structures, appurtenances or
architectural features similar to one within the same historic district,
including, for primary areas, visual compatibility as defined in §
151.22(B) of this chapter; and
         (g)   The position of the building or structure in relation to the
street, public right-of-way and to other buildings and structures.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.06 APPEAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to preserve historic buildings that are
important to the education, culture, traditions and economic values of the town
and to afford the town, historical organizations, property owners and other
interested persons the opportunity to acquire or to arrange for the
preservation of these buildings.
   (B)   If the Commission denies the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness for the demolition of a building, structure or site, a
demolition permit may be issued by other agencies and a building, structure or
site may be demolished, but only after the property owner has demonstrated to
the Commission that the historic building, structure or site is incapable of
earning an economic return on its value, as appraised by a licensed real estate
appraiser.
   (C)   Notice of the proposed demolition must be given for a period fixed by
the Commission based on the Commission’s classification on the approved map,
but not less than 60 days nor more than one year. Notice must be posted on the
premises of the building or structure proposed for demolition in a location
clearly visible from the street. In addition, notice must be published in a
newspaper of general local circulation at least three times before demolition,
with the first publication not more than 15 days after the application for a
permit to demolish is filed and the final publication at least 15 days before
the date of the permit.
   (D)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the notice period under division (C) above. If the certificate of
appropriateness is approved, a demolition permit shall be issued without
further delay and demolition may proceed.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.07 INTERESTED PARTIES.
   (A)   An interested party, as defined in §
151.02 of this chapter, has a private right of action to enforce and prevent
violation of provisions of this chapter or of an ordinance adopted by the town
under this chapter, and with respect to any building, structure or site within
a historic district, and has the right to restrain, enjoin or enforce by
restraining order or injunction, temporarily or permanently, any person from
violating a provision of this chapter or an ordinance adopted under this
chapter.
   (B)   The interested party does not have to allege or prove irreparable harm
or injury to any person or property to obtain relief under this section.
   (C)   The interested party bringing an action under this section does not
have to post a bond unless the court, after a hearing, determines that a bond
should be required in the interest of justice.
   (D)   The interested party that brings an action under this section is not
liable to any person for damages resulting from bringing or prosecuting the
action unless the action was brought without good faith or without a reasonable
belief that a provision of this chapter, or an ordinance adopted by a unit
under this chapter, had been, or was about to be, violated.
   (E)   An interested party who obtains a favorable judgment in an action
under this section may recover reasonable attorney fees and court costs from
the person against whom judgment was rendered.
   (F)   An action arising under this section must be brought in the circuit or
superior court of the county in which the historic district lies, and no change
of venue from the county shall be allowed in the action.
   (G)   The remedy provided in this section is in addition to other remedies
that may be available at law or in equity.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.08 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person or party aggrieved by a decision or action taken by the
Commission shall be entitled to a judicial review hereof in accordance with
I.C. 4-22-1.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
CONSERVATION GUIDELINES AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.20 HISTORIC DISTRICTS, CONSERVATION DISTRICTS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Recommendations. All recommendations for the establishment of a
historic district shall be in the form of a written report and must be based on
the criteria outlined in this section. A recommendation for establishing a
historic district may be initiated from either of the following two sources.
      (1)   Based on its survey, the Commission may draw and submit historic
district maps for Town Council approval.
      (2)   Owners of property in fee simple wishing to establish a historic
district which includes their property may petition the Commission to consider
drawing and submitting a map or maps of said property to the Town Council for
its approval. The Commission may establish in its rules criteria to be met
before it considers a petition.
   (B)   Conservation districts. The Commission may recommend, and the Town
Council may provide, that the establishment of a historic district shall occur
in two phases.
      (1)   During the first phase, which continues for a period of three years
from the date the ordinance is adopted, a certificate of appropriateness is
required for the following activities:
         (a)   The demolition of any building;
         (b)   The moving of any building; and
         (c)   Any new construction of a principal building or accessory
building or structure subject to view from a public way.
      (2)   At the expiration of the initial three-year period, the first phase
of a conservation district continues and the second phase does not become
effective if a majority of the property owners in the district object to the
Commission, in writing, to the requirement that certificates of appropriateness
be issued for the following activities:
         (a)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of historic
buildings by additions, construction, alteration or maintenance involving
exterior color changes;
         (b)   A change in walls and fences or construction of walls and
fences, if along public ways; and
         (c)   A conspicuous change in the exterior appearance of non-historic
buildings subject to view from a public way by additions, reconstruction,
alteration or maintenance involving exterior color change.
      (3)   The objections of a majority of the property owners must be
received by the Commission not earlier than 180 days or later than 60 days
before the third anniversary of the adoption of the ordinance.
   (C)   Commission preparation of historic district maps. In order to
establish a historic district, the Commission shall first prepare a map
describing the district in accordance with the following.
      (1)   The map shall be based on a survey conducted by the Commission
which identifies historic buildings, structures and sites located within the
town.
      (2)   A district may be limited to the boundaries of a property
containing a single building, structure or site.
      (3)   The map may divide the district into primary and secondary areas as
follows:
         (a)   Primary area: the principal area of historic and architectural
significance; or
         (b)   Secondary area: an area adjacent to a primary area which has a
visual relationship to the primary area and could affect the preservation of
the primary area. The purpose of designating a secondary area is to assure its
compatibility and harmony with an adjacent primary area.
   (D)   Classification and designation.
      (1)   The Commission shall classify and designate on the map all
buildings, structures and sites within each historic district described on the
map. Buildings, structures and sites shall be classified as historic or non-
historic. Historic buildings, structures and sites must possess identified
historic or architectural merit of a degree warranting their preservation.
      (2)   The Commission shall further classify and designate all buildings
and structures within a proposed historic district as follows:
         (a)   Outstanding;
         (b)   Notable; or
         (c)   Contributing.
      (3)   Non-historic buildings, structures and sites are those not
classified on the map as historic. In lieu of other classifications, the
Commission may devise its own system of further classification of historic
buildings, structures and sites.
   (E)   Town Council approval of maps of historic districts. Before a historic
district is established and the building classifications take effect, the map
setting forth the district’s boundaries and building classifications must be
submitted to, and approved in an ordinance by, the Town Council.
   (F)   Recording the fact of designation. The map establishing boundaries of
a historic district may be recorded in the Office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.21 INTERIM PROTECTION.
   (A)   When submitting a map to the Town Council under §
151.20 of this chapter, the Commission may declare one or more buildings or
structures that are classified and designated as historic on the map to be
under interim protection.
   (B)   Not more than two working days after declaring a building, structure
or site to be under interim protection under this section, the Commission
shall, by personal delivery or first-class mail, provide the owner or occupant
of the building, structure or site with a written notice of the declaration.
The written notice must:
      (1)   Cite the authority of the Commission to put the building, structure
or site under interim protection under this section;
      (2)   Explain the effect of putting the building, structure or site under
interim protection; and
      (3)   Indicate that the interim protection is temporary.
   (C)   A building or structure put under interim protection under division
(A) above remains under interim protection until the map is:
      (1)   Submitted to; and
      (2)   Approved in an ordinance or rejected by the Town Council.
   (D)   While a building, structure or site is under interim protection under
this section:
      (1)   The building, structure or site may not be demolished or moved; and
      (2)   The exterior appearance of the building, structure or site may not
be conspicuously changed by:
         (a)   Addition;
         (b)   Reconstruction; or
         (c)   Alteration.
   (E)   The Commission may approve a certificate of appropriateness at any
time during the period of interim protection, provided the proposed change
meets the criteria for considering effect of actions on historic buildings in §
151.05(D) of this chapter and any proposed preservation guidelines prepared for
the building, structure or site, but the certificate of appropriateness shall
have no effect, and no action may be taken pursuant thereto, unless the map
including the building, structure or site is approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.22 VISUAL COMPATIBILITY.
   (A)   For new construction, contemporary design and non-historic buildings.
To preserve and encourage the integrity of historic buildings, structures,
sites, monuments, streetscapes and neighborhoods and to ensure their
compatibility with any new work, the construction of a new building or
structure, and the moving, reconstruction, alteration, color change, major
maintenance or repair conspicuously affecting the external appearance of any
non-historic building, structure or appurtenance within the primary area, must
be generally of a design, form, proportion, mass, configuration, building
material, texture, color and location on a lot compatible with other buildings
in the historic district and with places to which it is visually related.
   (B)   Criteria for considering visual compatibility within historic primary
areas. Within the primary area of a historic district, new buildings,
structures, as well as buildings, structures and appurtenances that are moved,
reconstructed, materially altered, repaired or changed in color, must be
visually compatible with buildings and places to which they are visually
related generally in terms of the following visual compatibility factors.
      (1)   Height. The height of proposed buildings must be visually
compatible with adjacent buildings.
      (2)   Proportion of building’s front facade. The relationship of the
width of a building to the height of the front elevation must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (3)   Proportion of openings within the facility. The relationship of the
width of the windows to the height of windows in a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (4)   Relationship of solids to voids in front facades. The relationship
of solids to voids in the front facade of a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (5)   Rhythm of spacing of buildings on streets. The relationship of a
building to the open space between it and adjoining buildings must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (6)   Rhythm of entrances and porch projections. The relationship of
entrances and porch projections of a building to sidewalks must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (7)   Relationship of materials, texture and color. The relationship of
the materials, texture and color of the facade of a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (8)   Roof shapes. The roof shape of a building must be visually
compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually related.
      (9)   Wall of continuity. Appurtenances of a building or site, such as
walls, wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses and building facades,
must form cohesive walls of enclosure along the street if necessary to ensure
visual compatibility of the building to the buildings and places to which it is
visually related.
      (10)   Scale of the building. The size of a building, and the building
mass of a building in relation to open spaces, windows, door openings, porches
and balconies, must be visually compatible with the buildings and places to
which it is visually related.
      (11)   Directional expression of front elevation. A building must be
visually compatible with buildings, squares and places to which it is visually
related in its directional character, including vertical character, horizontal
character or non-directional character.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.23 PAINT COLORS.
   In an ordinance approving the establishment of a historic district, the town
may exclude changes in paint colors from the activities requiring the issuance
of a certificate of appropriateness under §
151.05 of this chapter before a permit may be issued or work begun.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.24 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Adherence to state statutes. Historic buildings, structures and sites
shall be maintained to meet the applicable requirements established under state
statute for buildings generally so as to prevent the loss of historic material
and the deterioration of important character-defining details and features.
   (B)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance. Nothing in this section shall be
construed so as to prevent the ordinary repairs and maintenance of any
building, structure or site, provided that such repairs or maintenance do not
result in a conspicuous change in the design, form, proportion, mass,
configuration, building material, texture, color, location or external visual
appearance of any structure or part thereof.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.25 PRESERVING HISTORICAL, ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTER UPON ALTERATION,
RELOCATION MANDATED.
   (A)   A historic building or structure, or any part of or appurtenance to
such a building or structure, including stone walls, fences, light fixtures,
steps, paving and signs, may be moved, reconstructed, altered or maintained
only in a manner that will preserve the historical and architectural character
of the building, structure or appurtenance.
   (B)   A historic building may be relocated to another site only if it is
shown that preservation on its current site is inconsistent with division (A)
above.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.26 RELATIONSHIP WITH ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Zoning districts lying within the boundaries of the historic district are
subject to regulations for both the zoning district and the historic district.
If there is a conflict between the requirements of the zoning district and the
requirements of the historic district, the more restrictive requirements shall
apply.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, whether as principal, agent, owner, lessee, tenant,
contractor, builder, architect, engineer or otherwise, who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as follows for each
offense:
      (1)   Not less than $10 nor more than $2,500 for demolition; and
      (2)   Not less than $10 nor more than $300 for all other offenses.
   (B)   Each day of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be a
separate offense.
   (C)   The erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
demolition, color change, moving or maintenance of any building, structure or
appurtenance which is begun, continued or maintained contrary to any provisions
of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance and in violation of this
chapter and unlawful. The town may institute a suit for injunction in the
Circuit Court or Superior Court of the county to restrain any person or
government unit from violating any provision of this chapter and to cause such
violation to be prevented, abated or removed. Such action may also be
instituted by any property owner who is adversely affected by the violation of
any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   The remedies provided for in this section shall be cumulative and not
exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
(Ord. 2007-07, passed 12-26-2007)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Minimum lot size
   
152.03   Placement on lots with dwellings or in yards
   
152.04   Parking in authorized mobile home parks
   
152.05   Trailer courts require a permit
   
152.06   Trailer court standards
   
152.07   Hearings on permits
   
152.08   Permit revocation
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FRONT YARD. A yard that is bounded by the front line of the principal
buildings, by the adjacent street right-of-way and by the segments of side lot
lines that they intercept.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The area of the building in square feet, as measured on a
horizontal plain at the ground floor level within its largest outside
dimensions, exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages and
exterior stairways.
   MOBILE HOME. A vehicle or other portable structure more than 30 feet in
length that is designed to move on the highway and designed or used as a
dwelling as manufactured.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land in which two or more mobile homes are
regularly accommodated with or without charge, including any building or other
structure, fixture or equipment that is used or intended to be used in
providing that accommodation.
   REAR YARD. A yard that extends across the full width of a lot and is bounded
on the rear by a rear lot line, and the depth of which is the least distance
between the rear lot line and the rear of the principal building.
   SIDE YARD. A yard between the principal building and the adjacent side lot
line that extends from the front yard, or street right-of-way where there is no
front yard, to the rear yard, and the width of which is the least distance
between the side lot line and the adjacent side of the building.
(Ord. 1969-2, passed 7-2-1969)
§ 152.02 MINIMUM LOT SIZE.
   (A)   No mobile home may be established on any lot in the town, subject to
the below restriction on lot size, which has less ground floor area, in square
feet, than 720 square feet.
   (B)   No mobile home will be placed upon any lot smaller in area than 6,000
square feet, with a minimum of 45 feet frontage, in the town.
   (C)   A lot on which a mobile home park or travel trailer park is located
may not be smaller in area than two acres, with an allotted minimum of 2,500
square feet per unit.
(Ord. 1969-2, passed 7-2-1969) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 PLACEMENT ON LOTS WITH DWELLINGS OR IN YARDS.
   A trailer may not be placed upon a lot upon which a dwelling is erected, and
no mobile home shall be placed in the back yard or side yard on any lot.
(Ord. 1969-2, passed 7-2-1969) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04 PARKING IN AUTHORIZED MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   A mobile home may be parked in any authorized mobile home park in the town.
(Ord. 1969-2, passed 7-2-1969)
§ 152.05 TRAILER COURTS REQUIRE A PERMIT.
   (A)   No trailer court shall be constructed, operated or maintained in the
town without a permit issued from the Town Council. Applications for such
permits shall be made in writing and shall be accompanied by plans and
specifications sufficient to determine whether or not the applicant is able to
comply with the requirements contained in this chapter.
   (B)   The permit shall carry a fee of $10 minimum and $1 for each trailer
space in the court, and shall be payable at the time of filing for the
application.
(Ord. 1969-2, passed 7-2-1969) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 TRAILER COURT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All trailer courts shall have a minimum area of two acres.
   (B)   The minimum area to be occupied by one trailer shall be 2,500 square
feet, clearly defined on the ground.
   (C)   All driveways within the court shall have a minimum width of 20 feet,
shall be surfaced with a durable, dust-proof, hard surface and shall have
unobstructed access to a public street.
   (D)   Trailers shall not be closer than 20 feet to each other, nor closer
than 30 feet to any street or right-of-way, nor within 25 feet of the
boundaries of the trailer court.
   (E)   Trailer courts shall comply with all local and state sanitary
regulations.
   (F)   Provisions shall be made for the handling and removal of garbage,
trash and refuse.
   (G)   All entrances, exits, lanes and driveways shall be lighted.
   (H)   No business shall be conducted in any trailer.
   (I)   Vehicles shall not be parked parallel with a trailer unless the
trailer lot is large enough to permit a ten-foot separation between vehicles
and trailer. Vehicles shall not be parked on drives but shall be provided with
off-driveway parking.
(Ord. 1969-2, passed 7-2-1969) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07 HEARINGS ON PERMITS.
   Prior to the issuance of a permit for the construction and maintenance of a
trailer court, if any person or persons aggrieved by said issuance shall file a
written remonstrance, the Town Council shall, within 15 days after said
remonstrance is filed, hold a public hearing to hear all interested persons as
to whether or not such a permit should be issued. The Council, after careful
consideration, will take whatever action is necessary.
(Ord. 1969-2, passed 7-2-1969) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Council may revoke any permit if, after investigation, it shall
determine that the standards of this chapter have been violated or that
irregularities exist in the maintenance of said trailer or trailer court.
(Ord. 1969-2, passed 7-2-1969) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $10 nor more than $100 per offense. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall or may constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1969-2, passed 7-2-1969)
CHAPTER 153: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS
Section
Streets and Alleys
   
153.01   Pole and wire placement
Sidewalk Obstructions
   
153.15   Obstructing sidewalks prohibited
   
153.16   Signs and permanent fixtures in business district
   
153.17   Snow removal by owners, occupants
   
153.18   Snow removal using vehicles restricted
Sidewalk Construction and Improvement
   
153.30   Purpose
   
153.31   Compliance with provisions required
   
153.32   Permitted materials
   
153.33   Brick sidewalks
   
153.34   Cement sidewalks
   
153.35   Flat stone or sandstone sidewalks
   
153.36   Crossings
   
153.37   Space around trees
   
153.38   Permit required for construction
   
153.39   Council duty upon application
 
   
153.99   Penalty
STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 153.01 POLE AND WIRE PLACEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Council, by its Street Commissioner or proper municipal
officer, exercises exclusive control over any and all telegraph, telephone,
electric and steam railroad companies holding a right of franchise, or that may
hereafter be granted a right of franchise, within the corporate limits of the
town compelling them or any of them to remove any and all poles now set, or
that may hereafter be set, to any place designated on any street or alley in
said town that will be more convenient or assure greater safety to the general
public, and to raise any and all wires now strung or that may hereafter be
strung so as to clear the ground at least 25 feet.
      (2)   All telegraph, telephone, electric light and all other wires of any
kind hereafter constructed within the corporate limits of said town shall be
supported by good, substantial wooden poles of a size not less than 12 inches
in diameter at the bottom and not less than six inches in diameter at the top
or iron or steel poles not less than five inches in diameter at the bottom and
three inches in diameter at the top. Such poles are to be set in the earth to a
depth of not less than six feet and well tamped; all such wires shall clear the
ground at least 25 feet and shall be fastened to said poles in such manner as
will properly hold the wires in place.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner or proper municipal
officer of the town to see that the provisions of this section are enforced,
and such municipal officer shall have the power within the corporate limits of
said town to require telegraph, telephone, electric light and other wires
constructed along and over the streets and alleys of the town to conform to the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   Note that the town does not currently own any poles within the town
limits. The respective utility departments, companies or franchises own the
poles and are responsible for maintaining them. When maintenance, repair,
replacement, removal or any other work is to be performed on poles within the
town limits, respective utility departments, companies or franchises shall
contact the town. Each utility has its own standards and codes, which shall
prevail over divisions (A) and (B) above. All provisions of the most current
version of the National Utility Codes and Standards shall apply to the
utilities owning poles within the town; where the National Utility Codes and
Standards or private policies of a utility department, company or franchise do
not provide adequate provisions, divisions (A) and (B) above shall apply.
(Ord. 76, passed 5-23-1904) Penalty, see §
153.99
SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 153.15 OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any abutting owners, or any other person or
persons, to place or allow any goods, wares or merchandise, or any other
obstruction of any kind, to be placed upon any of the sidewalks within the
corporate limits of the town. Permission to place any goods, wares, merchandise
or an obstruction of any kind on a sidewalk must be presented to the Town Board
in writing for approval.
(Ord. 73, passed 4-25-1904) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.16 SIGNS AND PERMANENT FIXTURES IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   The BUSINESS DISTRICT of the town shall be defined as follows:
      (1)   Each side of Henry Street between Mulberry Street and Plum Street;
and
      (2)   Each side of the entire length of Main Street in the town.
   (B)   No person, corporation or other business entity shall install any sign
or other permanent obstruction on any sidewalk in the business district in the
town without the express permission of the Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Council will not approve the installation of any sign or
permanent fixture on any sidewalk located in the business district of the town
unless it is determined that the sign or other specific fixture will enhance
the aesthetic value of the town.
(Ord. 2006-04, passed 5-1-2006) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.17 SNOW REMOVAL BY OWNERS, OCCUPANTS.
   It shall be and is hereby made the duty of the owners and occupants of lots,
part lots and lands abutting upon any sidewalk within the corporate limits of
the town to remove all snow, slush and other obstruction from the sidewalks in
front of the abutting lots, part lots and lands upon said walks within the
town, that said sidewalks may at all times be free of any and all obstruction
whatever to foot passengers making use of said walks. Where alleys intersect
the street and at all street crossings, the sidewalk is to be cleaned and kept
free of any and all obstruction whatsoever at the expense of the town.
(Ord. 82, passed 2-26-1906; Ord. 83, passed 4-23-1906) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.18 SNOW REMOVAL USING VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person in the town shall operate any vehicle for the purpose of
snow removal on any part of the following sidewalks:
      (1)   The sidewalk along the east and west sides of State Highway 32 in
the town between Fire Street and Williams Street; or
      (2)   The sidewalk along the north and south sides of Henry Street in the
town between Mulberry Street and Plum Street.
   (B)   No person shall operate any machine which has a weight in excess of
300 pounds for the purpose of snow removal on any of the following sidewalks in
the town:
      (1)   The sidewalk along the east and west sides of State Highway 32 in
the town between Fire Street and Williams Street; or
      (2)   The sidewalk along the north and south sides of Henry Street in the
town between Mulberry Street and Plum Street.
(Ord. 99-09, passed 12-6-1999) Penalty, see §
153.99
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT
§ 153.30 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is for the purpose of, and is hereby adopted for the purpose
of, the uniformity of building and constructing of sidewalks within the town,
and hereafter, all sidewalks built and constructed within said town shall be
built and constructed in conformity to this subchapter and the provisions
therein contained, and not otherwise.
(Ord. 95, passed 8-25-1908)
§ 153.31 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS REQUIRED.
   All sidewalks built or constructed within the corporate limits of the town
shall be built and constructed in strict compliance in all things with this
subchapter, and not otherwise.
(Ord. 95, passed 8-25-1908) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.32 PERMITTED MATERIALS.
   Any and all sidewalks built within the corporate limits of the town shall be
built of either brick, flat stone or sandstone or cement.
(Ord. 95, passed 8-25-1908) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.33 BRICK SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   In the building and construction of brick sidewalks, the stakes for
the line and grade of one edge of the walk will be set by the engineer or by
some person authorized so to do by the Town Council. The transverse slope will
be three-eighths inch per foot.
   (B)   Excavation will be made to a width shown on plans and to a depth of 16
inches below the top of the stakes. The subgrade shall be made perfectly
smooth, to conform to the grade of the walk when finished and to be compacted
by ramming. When necessary, any objectionable material below the subgrade shall
be excavated and the space filled with thoroughly compacted gravel or sand.
   (C)   Upon the subgrade thus prepared, a layer of good, clean gravel, such
as is required for cement sidewalks, will be spread, which, after ramming, will
be 12 inches thick. On the foundation of gravel, a layer of two inches of clean
sand will be placed. On this sand will be laid the bricks on their flat side,
and either at a right angle to the street or herringbone fashion, as the Town
Council may direct. The brick are to be laid with close joints, and each course
of bricks is to be of uniform width and depth and so laid that all longitudinal
joints will be broken by at least two inches. The bricks will then be carefully
rammed by placing a plank over several courses and ramming the plank with a
heavy rammer. The ramming will be continued until the bricks reach a firm,
unyielding bed and present a uniform surface with proper grade and slope. Any
lack of uniformity in the surface must be corrected by taking up and relaying.
When the ramming is completed, a sufficient amount of fine, dry sand shall be
spread over the surface and swept or raked into the joints. Edges of the brick
sidewalk, when not abutting against a curb or building, will be finished by a
continuous row of bricks set on edge or in such other manner as may be directed
by the Town Council.
   (D)   The brick shall be uniform in quality, of fine, compact, even texture,
sound and hard-burned, free from lines and cracks. All bricks shall be culled
before they are brought on the site of the work and at the expense of the
contractor, who shall furnish capable people for that purpose, and any brick of
improper quality or shape shall be immediately removed from the work. The brick
must be whole, except such bats as are necessary to fill in at the ends of
courses, and all brick broken in ramming shall be replaced with whole ones. All
brick shall be equal to the sample on file in the office of the Town Council.
(Ord. 95, passed 8-25-1908) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.34 CEMENT SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Stakes, grade marks and slope. In the building and construction of
cement sidewalks, the stakes will be set by the engineer or by someone
authorized by the Town Council to define the line of one edge of the sidewalk,
being the inner edge next to the property line, and the grade marks will
indicate the top of the walk at said line; the transverse slope of the sidewalk
will be one-fourth inch per foot and will be determined by level and grade
board.
   (B)   Grading. The sidewalk shall be graded to the width as shown on plans
in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, or as may be ordered by the Town
Council, for the entire length of the improvement, including all wings and
crossings, as shown on plans or as ordered by said Town Council, and 14 inches
below the finished surface of the work. The grading must be neatly and smoothly
done, all large stones, boulders, roots, sods and rubbish of every description
being removed from the grade, and the entire work must be made to conform fully
to the profile and the grade of the sidewalk when finished. Soft, spongy or
loamy places and spots in the subgrade must be taken out and refilled with good
material by ramming.
   (C)   Tree removal, accommodation. Trees shall not be cut down, removed or
otherwise disturbed except by order of the Town Council; roots of trees which
are not removed but which are contiguous to the line and grade of the sidewalk
or in any way interfere therewith must be trimmed and cut away as the Town
Council shall direct, and where the Town Council directs, the sidewalks shall
be fitted to the trees and roots covered with earthenware half-pipes, and trees
removed must be grubbed for the entire width of the sidewalk and also all its
roots that rise above the level of the subgrade. No extra compensation will be
allowed for said work, and the contractor shall notify the Town Council when
the excavation for the subgrade is complete, and said Council shall inspect the
same before the gravel is placed therein.
   (D)   Foundation laying. After the Town Council has been notified of the
completion of the subgrade and have inspected and accepted the same, upon the
subgrade thus prepared, a foundation of sand and fine gravel or broken stone in
such proportions as, when rammed, will form a solid and compact mass shall be
spread to a uniform depth of ten inches, all to be rammed and tamped until it
presents a hard, smooth surface. It shall be sprinkled with water as required,
with enough remaining to render the surface as moist as the concrete at the
time the latter is made.
   (E)   Framing, mixing and pouring.
      (1)   Wooden frames four inches in height will be placed in the manner
necessary to outline both external edges of the sidewalk accurately, the top of
the frame being located to coincide with the established grade of the sidewalk.
Gauges must be used to render surface of the foundation layer and of concrete
parallel to the top of the walk.
      (2)   Concrete will be made as follows: one measure of portland cement as
hereafter specified for sidewalks, and two measures of clean, sharp sand or
granite mixed together thoroughly while dry, and then made into mortar with the
least possible amount of water; broken stone or gravel not over one inch in
diameter, thoroughly cleaned from dirt and dust and drenched with water, but
containing no loose water in the heap, will then be mixed immediately with the
mortar in such quantities as will give a surplus of mortar when rammed. This
proportion, when ascertained, will be regulated by measure. The Town Council
may accept a clean, natural mixture of sand and gravel if it is uniform and
contains no dirt, sticks or stones larger than above specified. The proportions
will be one part of cement to five parts of the mixture.
      (3)   Each batch of the concrete will be thoroughly mixed, and the Town
Council may prescribe the number of times it shall be turned over, wet and dry,
to accomplish this result. In general, it shall be turned or cut four times dry
and three times wet. It will then be spread to fill the frames even full and be
at once compacted thoroughly by ramming until free mortar appears on the
surface and until a one- inch gauge shall pass over the concrete, cutting it
one inch below the top of the finished surface of the walk. It is the intention
that the surface of the concrete, when finished and thoroughly rammed, shall be
of at least one inch below the top of the frame. The whole operation of mixing
and laying each batch of concrete will be performed as expeditiously as
possible.
   (F)   Wearing surface application. After each batch of concrete is laid, as
required, it shall be immediately covered with the wearing surface. Any portion
of the foundation which has been left long enough to have any appearance of
setting shall be taken up and relaid before the top is put on, and under no
circumstances will concrete be allowed to remain overnight before the top is
put on. The wearing surface on top shall be composed of one part of the same
cement used in the concrete and one part of clean, sharp sand, thoroughly mixed
dry and made into mortar with the least possible amount of water, just enough
to bring it to a thin paste.
   (G)   Finishing. It shall be evenly and compactly spread to the finish
surface of the walk and made smooth and even by troweling and floating. The top
and concrete foundation shall be cut into blocks, to be approved by the Town
Council as to their dimensions. The pavement shall be properly fitted around
all fixtures in the sidewalk, the edges of the pavement to be leveled from the
top surface to the bottom of the concrete with the material used on the top
when finished. The work shall be kept covered from the sun for three days and
kept moist by sprinkling at least twice per day for that time and until
thoroughly set.
   (H)   Contractor duty to replace during guarantee period. If found not to
comply with the specifications up to the time of the guarantee period, in any
respect, they shall be taken out immediately and replaced by the contractor, or
the party who builds and constructs the same, at his or her own expense. All
disfigured walks shall be taken up and replaced at once by the contractor or
party who constructs the same at his or her own expense.
   (I)   Contractor bond; material testing. The contractor shall give bond with
good surety, to be approved by the Town Council, in the sum of $500,
guaranteeing his or her work against all defects for the period of five years
from the time of acceptance and completion of the same, and as a consideration
of the same, shall be allowed to put down public walks and use such American
portland cement, or any imported portland cement, as he or she may select,
providing the same is approved by the Town Council, and on demand of said
Council, he or she shall be required to furnish samples for tests, and should
he or she insist on using a cement not approved, he or she shall furnish
samples to be tested at his or her expense.
(Ord. 95, passed 8-25-1908) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.35 FLAT STONE OR SANDSTONE SIDEWALKS.
   In the building and construction of flat stone or sandstone sidewalks, the
stakes shall be set by the engineer or by the Town Council, and the excavation
shall be made as shown upon plans and to the depth of 16 inches below the top
of the stakes. The subgrade shall be made perfectly smooth, to conform to the
grade of the walk when finished, and shall be compacted by ramming so as to
make the same solid. Upon the subgrade shall be placed a bed of clean, sharp
gravel to the depth of eight inches, and the stone shall be placed upon such
bed of gravel. The stone used in building sidewalks shall not be less than
three inches in thickness.
(Ord. 95, passed 8-25-1908) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.36 CROSSINGS.
   Crossings shall be laid as shown on plans. The crossing stones shall be not
less than three feet nor more than six feet in length and laid one foot apart
or as ordered. The ends of the crossing stones shall be squared and hammer-
dressed so as to form joints not exceeding one-fourth inch to their full depth
and width. The crossing stones are to be bedded on fine, sharp sand, the bottom
surface of said sand to be level with the surface of the sand in which the
paving blocks are imbedded. The space between the walk stones and for one and
one-half feet on each side shall be bouldered as specified by the Town Council
or as set out in the plans.
(Ord. 95, passed 8-25-1908) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.37 SPACE AROUND TREES.
   Suitable areas shall be left unpaved around trees as directed by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 95, passed 8-25-1908) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.38 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   Any person, persons, company, firm or corporation desiring to build and
construct a sidewalk upon or along any street or alley or public place within
the corporate limits of the town shall first apply to the Town Council,
describing the place where said sidewalk is desired to be constructed and
setting forth the kind of sidewalk desired to be constructed and the width of
same. Before building or constructing such sidewalk, they must receive a permit
so to do from the Town Council.
(Ord. 95, passed 8-25-1908) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.39 COUNCIL DUTY UPON APPLICATION.
   The Town Council reserves the right, and it shall be its duty upon
application, to construct and build within the corporate limits of the town,
and to designate the width of such sidewalk on the granting of the permit to
build and construct the same.
(Ord. 95, passed 8-25-1908) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any person, company or corporation refusing or neglecting to comply
with any of the provisions of §
153.01 of this chapter after being notified by the Town Council shall forfeit
and pay to the town the sum of $5 for each day such notice is not complied
with. Such forfeiture shall be enforced by complaint being filed with any court
having jurisdiction of the subject matter within the county.
   (C)   Any person or persons who shall violate the provisions of §
153.15 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $20.
   (D)   Any person found to have violated §
153.16 of this chapter shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $100. Each day
that the sign or obstruction is not removed subsequent to the service of the
initial notice of code violation shall constitute a separate offense. Any
person who causes damage to a sidewalk located in the business district of the
town as a result of a violation of §
153.16 of this chapter shall pay restitution to the town in an amount necessary
to properly repair the damage to the sidewalk.
   (E)   (1)   Any owner or occupant of abutting property who shall refuse or
neglect to comply with the provisions of §
153.17 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined not less than $2 nor more than $10, such prosecution
to be in the name of the town before a Justice of the Peace having his or her
office within said town or before the Circuit Court of the county, and in case
there is no acting Justice of the Peace within said town, such prosecution may
be brought before any Justice of the Peace in the county upon a warrant issued
by said Justice, as in the case of misdemeanors. Such person, on conviction,
shall stand committed until the judgment and costs are paid or replevied, and
in default of payment or replevy of such judgment and costs, the defendant,
unless a woman, may be adjudged and required to pay the same by manual labor
upon the streets or other public works of said town, for which labor such
defendant shall be credited on such judgment and costs $1 per day.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Town Marshal or other officer, as the
Town Council may direct, to cause such defendant to work not less than six
hours nor more than ten hours per day, and each evening to return him to the
custody of the keeper of the prison to which such defendant was committed.
      (3)   Upon payment, as aforesaid, of such judgment and costs, such
defendant shall be discharged. The Marshal is hereby authorized and required to
perform all the duties herein prescribed and to use all proper means thereto,
and the Town Council is vested with full authority to pass bylaws and
ordinances for compelling the enforcement of such manual labor by such
defendant. Such defendant may be committed to the Town Prison, or if there be
none, then to the County Jail.
   (F)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity violating the terms and
provisions of §
153.18 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in a sum not exceeding $500,
plus costs. In addition, any person who causes any damage to any sidewalk
designated under §
153.18 in violation of §
153.18 shall be responsible to make restitution to the town for any expense
incurred for the repair of said damage.
(Ord. 73, passed 4-25-1904; Ord. 76, passed 5-23-1904; Ord. 83, passed 4-23-
1906; Ord. 99-09, passed 12-6-1999)
CHAPTER 154: COUNTY CODES ADOPTED
Section
Flood Damage Prevention
   
154.01   Participation in National Flood Insurance Program
   
154.02   County ordinance adopted; County Plan Commission designated
   
154.03   Copies maintained for public inspection
Subdivisions
   
154.15   County Subdivision Control Ordinance adopted
Zoning
   
154.30   County Unified Zoning Regulations, zoning maps adopted
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
§ 154.01 PARTICIPATION IN NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM.
   The town does hereby indicate its intention to participate (or maintain
participation) in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 154.02 COUNTY ORDINANCE ADOPTED; COUNTY PLAN COMMISSION DESIGNATED.
   The town does hereby adopt by reference and implement the provisions of Ord.
2013-03 (county ordinance number) as if the same were set out herein in full
and does designate the County Plan Commission as its planning and zoning
agency.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 2-4-2013)
§ 154.03 COPIES MAINTAINED FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer (or appropriate agency) maintains a copy of this
subchapter, together with Ord. 2013-03 (county ordinance number), in the manner
town ordinances are kept and available for public inspection.
(Ord. 2013-03, passed 2-4-2013)
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 154.15 COUNTY SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The Town Council ordains the existing Unified Subdivision Control Ordinance
be repealed and the enactment of the new Subdivision Control Ordinance,
incorporated herein by reference and implemented as if it were set out in full.
(Ord. 99-06, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 2017-02, passed 4-3-2017)
ZONING
§ 154.30 COUNTY UNIFIED ZONING REGULATIONS, ZONING MAPS ADOPTED.
   The Town Council ordains the existing Unified Zoning Regulations and
existing zoning maps be repealed and the enactment of the new Unified Zoning
Regulations and new amended zoning maps, incorporated herein by reference and
implemented as if it were set out in full.
(Ord. 99-07, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 2001-2, passed 10-1-2001; Ord. 2007-2,
passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2009-02, passed 7-6-2009; Ord. 2010-01, passed 2-1-2010;
Ord. 2011-03, passed 8-1-2011; Ord. 2013-05, passed 4-8-2013; Ord. 2014-07,
passed 12-1-2014; Ord. 2016-04, passed 8-1-2016; Ord. 2016-05, passed 8-1-2016;
Ord. 2016-06, passed 8-1-2016; Ord. 2016-07, passed 8-1-2016; Ord. 2016-08,
passed 8-1-2016; Ord. 2016-09, passed 8-1-2016; Ord. 2018-01, passed 1-2-2018;
Ord. 2018-02, passed 3-5-2018; Ord. 2018-03, passed 3-5-2018; Ord. 2018-07,
passed 8-6-2018; Ord. 2020-01, passed 6-8-2020; Ord. 2022-01, passed 4-5-2022)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cite Code Section
I.C. Cite          Code Section
1-1-1-5            10.04
1-1-1-7            10.12
1-1-1-8            10.06
1-1-4-5            10.05
1-1-5-1            10.11
1-1-6-1            10.08
4-22-1             151.08
5-2-1-9(f)         31.017;
                   31.018
5-13-5-5           32.03
5-14-1.5-1 et seq. 33.035
7.1-3-9-3          111.01
9-13-2             70.01
9-14-2-3           70.01
9-17-2-12(e)       31.002
9-19-10-2          70.01
9-19-11            70.01
9-19-11-2          70.01
9-20-6-5           70.01
9-20-11-1(1)       70.01
9-22-1-1 et seq.   94.08;
                   94.09
9-22-1-5 et seq.   94.07
9-22-1-6 et seq.   94.07
9-22-1-13          94.07
9-24-10            70.01
9-26-9-3           31.001
9-29-5-13(b)(2)    70.01
10-14-3-12         33.040
10-14-3-29         33.040
10-17-5-1          110.03
10-17-5-2          110.03
14-3-3.4-10        151.02
16-18-2-13         70.01
16-42-5-29         110.03
17-2-72-9          150.04
22-9-1-4 et seq.   90.02
22-9.5-1 et seq.   90.01
22-9.5-2-2         90.02
22-9.5-2-3         90.02
22-9.5-2-4         90.02
22-9.5-2-8         90.02
22-9.5-2-9         90.02
22-9.5-2-10        90.02
22-9.5-2-10(b)     90.02
22-9.5-2-10(c)     90.02
22-9.5-2-11        90.02
22-9.5-2-13        90.02
22-9.5-3 et seq.   90.10
22-9.5-3           90.03
22-9.5-4-8         90.11
22-9.5-5           90.02
22-9.5-5-1         90.03
22-9.5-6           90.02;
                   90.11
22-11-1-12         150.10
25-25-2-1          110.03
34-4-32-1 et seq.  130.99
34-4-32-4          130.99
34-4-32-4(c)       Ch. 73, Schd. III
34-28-5-4          33.999
35-31.5-2-76       130.07
35-31.5-2-78       130.07
35-31.5-2-128      130.07
35-31.5-2-185      130.07
35-45-2-1-(c)      130.07
34-46-3-1          130.07
34-46-4            130.07
35-47-2-3(b)       33.006
36-1-3 et seq.     31.016
36-1-3-8(a)(10)    10.99
36-5-2-4.1(g)      30.02
36-5-4-12          32.06
36-7-9             150.30;
                   150.33
36-7-9-3           150.31
36-7-9-7           150.33
36-7-9-12          150.35
36-7-9-13          150.35
36-8-3 et seq.     31.017
36-8-3-20          31.016 through
                   31.018
36-8-12-16         93.01
36-9-23-32         56.05
36-10-3            31.035;
                   31.039
1971-22-11-21.5    150.07
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        12-27-1966  30.20
1984-5   3-5-1984    30.21
2000-8   9-7-2000    52.03
2009-05  5-4-2009    33.007
2014-12  11-3-2014   32.02
2016-10  11-7-2016   33.001
2017-08  11-6-2017   32.05
2017-10  12-4-2017   33.023
2017-11  12-4-2017   51.16
2021-07  6-7-2021    33.035 through
                     33.040
2021-09  11-17-2021  30.01
2022-02  1-13-2022   32.06
2022-04  1-13-2022   33.003
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     95.001;
                     95.002;
                     95.004;
                     95.015 through
                     95.018;
                     95.030 through
84-01    - -         95.035;
                     95.050 through
                     95.052;
                     95.065 through
                     95.075;
                     95.090 through
                     95.101
85-3     - -         10.01;
                     10.07
1942-1   - -         30.01
1960-1   - -         52.22 through
                     52.24
                     70.03;
                     70.99;
                     71.01 through
1987-7   - -         71.05;
                     71.20 through
                     71.22;
                     71.99;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. VI
2006-08  - -         33.022
                     91.001 through
                     91.004;
                     91.015 through
                     91.018;
1929-1   9-9-        91.030;
                     91.031;
                     91.045 through
                     91.048;
                     91.060 through
                     91.063
68       1-12-1903   33.021;
                     33.999
73       4-25-1904   153.15;
                     153.99
76       5-23-1904   153.01;
                     153.99
82       2-26-1906   153.17
83       4-23-1906   153.17;
                     153.99
89       1-14-1908   74.01; 74.99
                     93.50 through
90       1-25-1908   93.59;
                     93.99
91       1-28-1908   74.02; 74.99
93       7-14-1908   92.20;
                     92.99
95       8-25-1908   153.30 through
                     153.39
1926-2   4-26-1926   93.35;
                     93.99
1948-2   10-4-1948   52.99
1964-4   10-6-1964   30.04
1965-1   7-12-1965   130.01;
                     130.99
                     110.01 through
1966-1   2-7-1966    110.07;
                     110.99
1969-1   5-14-1969   31.075;
                     31.076
                     152.01 through
1969-2   7-2-1969    152.08;
                     152.99
                     33.020;
                     33.999;
1970-1   6-3-1970    130.03;
                     130.04;
                     130.99
                     91.001 through
                     91.004;
                     91.015 through
                     91.018;
1972-08  10-16-1972  91.030;
                     91.031;
                     91.045 through
                     91.048;
                     91.060 through
                     91.063
1973-3   3-5-1973    91.090 through
                     91.092
1976-3   9-7-1976    31.055 through
                     31.060
                     150.01 through
                     150.07;
1981-2   2-2-1981    150.09 through
                     150.18;
                     150.99
1982-1   3-1-1982    30.04
1982-3   3-1-1982    31.001
1982-4   3-1-1982    33.006
1982-9   10-4-1982   150.08
                     52.20;
1982-10  11-1-1982   52.21;
                     53.06
1983-2   3-7-1983    53.04;
                     53.05
1983-5   7-11-1983   33.006
1983-12  12-28-1983  30.01
84-3     4-23-1984   31.035 through
                     31.040
1986-3   4-7-1986    150.30 through
                     150.36
-        8-4-1986    Ch. 73, Schd. III
1987-6   8-24-1987   33.004;
                     33.999
1989-10  9-5-1989    30.05
1990-2   3-5-1990    53.03
                     91.001 through
                     91.004;
                     91.015 through
                     91.018;
1991-04  5-6-1991    91.030;
                     91.031;
                     91.045 through
                     91.048;
                     91.060 through
                     91.063
1992-01  5-4-1992    31.002
1992-04  11-2-1992   30.02
                     94.01 through
93-07    2-7-1993    94.09;
                     94.99
                     92.01;
93-08    2-7-1993    92.02;
                     92.06
                     93.01 through
1993-09  2-7-1993    93.09;
                     93.99
1993-10  2-7-1993    Ch. 73, Schd. I
1993-03  7-6-1993    Ch. 73, Schd. II
                     31.015 through
94-02    6-6-1994    31.018;
                     31.020;
                     31.021
                     54.03;
                     54.25;
94-08    9-29-1994   54.26;
                     54.28;
                     55.01 through
                     55.07
                     54.01;
                     54.02;
                     54.04;
                     54.05;
                     54.07 through
94-09    9-29-1994   54.12;
                     54.27;
                     54.40 through
                     54.47;
                     54.60 through
                     54.63;
                     54.99
95-01    7-26-1995   130.02;
                     130.99
96-15    2-3-1996    52.26
95-07    2-5-1996    30.22
96-03    9-9-1996    33.005
96-06    9-9-1996    92.05
96-07    9-9-1996    Ch. 74, Schd. V
96-08    9-9-1996    Ch. 74, Schd. I; Ch. 76, Schd. II
96-09    9-9-1996    Ch. 74, Schd. II
                     71.06;
1996-14  12-2-1996   71.99;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. III
                     91.001 through
                     91.004;
                     91.015 through
                     91.018;
97-01    5-5-1997    91.030;
                     91.031;
                     91.045 through
                     91.048;
                     91.060 through
                     91.063
1997-02  3-3-1997    31.090 through
                     31.093
97-03    6-2-1997    92.03;
                     92.04
                     51.01;
                     51.02;
96-10    7-7-1997    51.15;
                     51.17;
                     51.31;
                     51.99
97-07    8-4-1997    51.03
97-09    8-4-1997    Ch. 74, Schd. III
97-13    11-3-1997   52.01
97-15    1-5-1998    31.015
1998-02  1-5-1998    50.01;
                     50.99
                     93.20;
1998-03  2-16-1998   93.21;
                     93.99
98-05    4-6-1998    32.01
98-06    5-18-1998   93.22;
                     93.23
98-12    11-2-1998   Ch. 74, Schd. IV
98-13    11-16-1998  Ch. 74, Schd. III
98-14    11-16-1998  Ch. 74, Schd. I
                     91.001 through
                     91.004;
                     91.015 through
                     91.018;
                     91.030;
99-02    6-7-1999    91.031;
                     91.045 through
                     91.048;
                     91.060 through
                     91.063;
                     91.999
99-03    6-17-1999   92.99
99-06    12-6-1999   154.15
99-07    12-6-1999   154.30
99-09    12-6-1999   153.18;
                     153.99
2000-01  3-6-2000    31.015
2000-02  7-3-2000    Ch. 74, Schd. III
2000-03  8-7-2000    30.23
2000-4   10-2-2000   54.06
2000-5   10-2-2000   52.02
                     131.01 through
2000-6   10-16-2000  131.04;
                     131.99
                     91.105;
2000-07  11-6-2000   91.106;
                     91.999
2000-08  11-6-2000   54.99
2001-01  5-21-2001   32.04
2001-2   10-1-2001   154.30
2002-02  2-4-2002    70.01;
                     70.99
2002-04  5-6-2002    91.999
2002-05  6-17-2002   31.001
                     94.01 through
2003-02  5-5-2003    94.09;
                     94.99
2004-03  5-3-2004    50.02
2005-02  5-4-2005    111.01
2005-03  7-5-2005    52.04
2006-02  4-4-2006    Ch. 74, Schd. I
2006-03  5-1-2006    Ch. 73, Schd. II
2006-04  5-1-2006    153.16
2006-07  10-2-2006   Ch. 73, Schd. IV;
                     Ch. 74, Schd. VI
2006-11  12-4-2006   31.015
2007-01  2-5-2007    Ch. 73, Schd. II
2007-2   3-5-2007    154.30
2007-05  10-1-2007   31.003
                     151.01 through
                     151.08;
2007-07  12-26-2007  151.20 through
                     151.26;
                     151.99
2007-09  12-26-2007  30.23
2007-10  12-26-2007  31.019
2008-02  3-3-2008    150.30 through
                     150.36
2008-03  5-5-2008    53.04
2009-02  7-6-2009    154.30
2009-3   9-8-2009    53.01;
                     53.02
2009-04  11-2-2009   52.05;
                     52.25
                     72.01 through
2009-05  11-2-2009   72.10;
                     72.99
2010-01  2-1-2010    154.30
2010-03  4-5-2010    70.02;
                     70.99
2011-02  3-7-2011    Ch. 74, Schd. III
2011-03  8-1-2011    154.30
2012-01  10-1-2012   30.03
2012-03  12-3-2012   33.002
                     56.01 through
                     56.09;
2013-04  - -2013     56.20 through
                     56.26;
                     56.99
2013-02  2-4-2013    Ch. 74, Schd. IV
2013-03  2-4-2013    154.01 through
                     154.03
2013-05  4-8-2013    154.30
                     90.01 through
2013-06  5-17-2013   90.11;
                     90.99
2013-09  12-2-2013   Ch. 73, Schd. I
2014-04  6-2-2014    Ch. 73, Schd. I
2014-07  12-1-2014   154.30
2015-04  8-3-2015    Ch. 74, Schd. I
                     110.01 through
2015-06  12-7-2015   110.07;
                     110.99
2016-2   3-30-2016   55.04
2016-04  8-1-2016    154.30
2016-05  8-1-2016    154.30
2016-06  8-1-2016    154.30
2016-07  8-1-2016    154.30
2016-08  8-1-2016    154.30
2016-09  8-1-2016    154.30
                     33.075 through
2016-11  12-5-2016   33.077;
                     33.999
2016-13  2-6-2017    51.30;
                     51.99
2017-02  4-3-2017    154.15
                     91.075 through
2017-04  12-4-2017   91.077;
                     91.999
2018-01  1-2-2018    154.30
2018-02  3-5-2018    154.30
2018-03  3-5-2018    154.30
2018-04  5-7-2018    52.40 through
                     52.46
2018-07  8-6-2018    154.30
                     91.090 through
2018-06  9-4-2018    91.092;
                     91.999
2018-08  9-4-2018    95.003;
                     95.999
2020-01  6-8-2020    154.30
2020-02  8-3-2020    33.055 through
                     33.064
2021-01  3-1-2021    32.03
                     52.05;
2021-03  4-5-2021    52.60 through
                     52.62;
                     52.99
2022-03  8-2-2021    32.03
2022-01  4-5-2022    154.30
2022-04  10-4-2022   Ch. 74, Schd. I
                    
 
