FISHERS, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-111 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance No. 042125E, passed 4-21-25; and
Resolution No. R042125C, passed 4-21-25; and
State legislation current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2024 Acts,
Pamphlet #3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 121791
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF FISHERS,
INDIANA, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE TOWN DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID
CODE
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the Town of Fishers are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the Town; and,
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the General Assembly of the State of Indiana empower
and authorize the Town Council of every Town to revise, amend, restate, codify
and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new ordinances not
heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said ordinance into one
ordinance in book form; and,
   WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Fishers has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Fishers,
Indiana, that:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the Town of Fishers, Indiana, as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified and compiled in book form, are adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Fishers, Indiana".
   Section 2. Said Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles, to-wit:
   Title 1         General Provisions
   Title 3         Administration
   Title 5         Public Works
   Title 7         Traffic Code
   Title 9         General Regulations
   Title 11         Business Regulations
   Title 13         General Offenses
   Title 15         Land Usage
   Table of Special Ordinances
   Parallel References
   Index
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code
except as they are included and reordinanced in whole or in part in said Code;
provided such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred
or any right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall
such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances, levying taxes, appropriating
money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting
special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing
the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale
of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plats or
dedication of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries
of streets, alleys, or other public places, or to any other ordinance of a
temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained therein.
   Section 4. Said Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Council and the Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Fishers
is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of said Code in the office of
the Clerk-Treasurer.
   Section 5. Said Code shall be in full force and effect two (2) weeks from
the date of its publication and filing thereof in the office of the Clerk-
Treasurer, and said Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and
notices thereof as required by law have been given.
      PASSED AND ADOPTED this 17th day of December, 1991.
   TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FISHERS, INDIANA
            Walter F. Kelly (s)                        Roy G. Holland (s)
   James P. Roederer (s)
ATTEST:
Linda Gaye Cordell (s)
Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 090992A
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE TOWN OF FISHERS
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1992 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Fishers,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and,
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Indiana Code; and,
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changed of the law of the State of Indiana.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Fishers,
Indiana:
   Section 1. That the 1992 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fishers, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as if
set out in its entirety.
   Section 2. That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and
effect from and after its passage.
   ALL OF WHICH IS SO ORDAINED this 9th day of September, 1992.
   TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FISHERS,
   HAMILTON COUNTY, INDIANA
            Walter F. Kelly (s)                        Roy G. Holland (s)
            James P. Roederer (s)                     Deborah H. Heckart (s)
   David C. Gingich (s)
ATTEST:
Linda Gaye Cordell (s)
Clerk-Treasurer
PREPARATION OF ORDINANCE:
Douglas D. Church (s)
Attorney
ORDINANCE NO. 011994
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE TOWN OF FISHERS, INDIANA.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1993 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Fishers,
which supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the
prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make reference to sections of the Indiana Code;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Fishers,
Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the 1993 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fishers, Indiana, as prepared by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and
after its passage.
Passed this 19th day of January, 1994
                                             THE TOWN COUNCIL OF FISHERS,
                                             HAMILTON COUNTY, INDIANA
                                 BY:
                                                                 
                                    Walter F. Kelly, President
                                      /s/                                      
Roy G. Holland, Vice President
                                      /s/                                      
James P. Roederer, Member
                                      /s/                                      
David C. Gingrich, Member
                                      /s/                                      
Deborah H. Heckart, Member
ATTEST:
/s/
Linda Gaye Cordell, Clerk-Treasurer
of the Town of Fishers, Indiana
Prepared by:   Roger A. Johnson,
         Department of Development,
         Town of Fishers
Approved by: Douglas D. Church
         Church, Church, Hittle and Antrim
         Town Attorney
ORDINANCE NO. 012595B
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES OF
THE TOWN OF FISHERS, INDIANA.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 1994 supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fishers, which supplements include all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision to or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances based on
or referencing sections of the Indiana Code;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Fishers,
Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the 1994 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fishers, Indiana, as prepared by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
upon its adoption in accordance law.
   PASSED AND ORDAINED by the Town Council this 25th day of January, 1995.
          /s/                 /s/
         Walter F. Kelly                      Roy G. Holland
          /s/                 /s/    
         James P. Roederer                  David C. Gingrich
                            /s/
                         Deborah H. Heckart
   Town Council of the Town of Fishers,
   Hamilton County, Indiana
ATTEST:
/s/
Linda Gaye Cordell, Clerk-Treasurer
ORDINANCE NO. 020796
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING
   A SUPPLEMENT TO THE TOWN OF FISHERS, INDIANA
   CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 1995 supplements to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fishers. Such supplements include all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision to or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances based on
or referencing sections of the Indiana Code;
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Fishers,
Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the 1995 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fishers, Indiana, as prepared by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and upon
its adoption in accordance with the law.
   PASSED AND ORDAINED by the Town Council this 7th day of February, 1996.
                                                                                                          
         Walter F. Kelly, President               Roy G. Holland, Vice
President
          /s/              /s/
         James P. Roederer, Member            Deborah H. Heckart, Member
                                                              /s/
         Stuart F. Easley, Member               Scott A. Faultless, Member
          /s/    
         Timothy O. Lima, Member
                                 ATTEST:  /s/
                                        Linda Gaye Cordell, Clerk-Treasurer
                                        Town of Fishers, Indiana
ORDINANCE NO. 020597
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING
   A SUPPLEMENT TO THE TOWN OF FISHERS, INDIANA
   CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 1996 supplements to the Town of Fishers, Code of Ordinances. Such
supplements include all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and,
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision to or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances based on
or referencing sections of the Indiana Code; and,
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Fishers,
Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the 1996 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fishers, Indiana, as prepared by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and upon
its adoption in accordance with the law.
   PASSED AND ORDAINED by the Fishers Town Council this 5th day of February,
1997.
   TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FISHERS, HAMILTON COUNTY, INDIANA
         AYE                                 NAY
BY:
/s/    Walter F. Kelly,                                                   
                         President
/s/    Roy G. Holland,                                                   
                                           James P.
Roederer,                                                
                         Member
                                           Deborah H.
Heckart,                                                
                         Member
/s/    Stuart F. Easley,                                                   
                         Member
/s/    Scott A. Faultless,                                                
                         Member
/s/    Timothy O. Lima,                                                
                         Member
ATTEST:  /s/  Linda Gaye Cordell, Clerk-Treasurer, Town of Fishers, Indiana;
   Approved by: Douglas D. Church of Church, Church, Hittle and Antrim - Town
Attorney
ORDINANCE NO. 012198
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING
   A SUPPLEMENT TO THE TOWN OF FISHERS, INDIANA
   CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 1997 supplements to the Town of Fishers, Code of Ordinances. Such
supplements include all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and,
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision to or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances based on
or referencing sections of the Indiana Code; and,
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Fishers,
Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the 1997 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fishers, Indiana, as prepared by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and upon
its adoption in accordance with the law.
   PASSED AND ORDAINED by the Fishers Town Council this 21st day of January,
1998.
   TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FISHERS, HAMILTON COUNTY, INDIANA
         AYE                                 NAY
BY:
/s/    Walter F. Kelly,                                                   
                         President
/s/    James P. Roederer,                                                
                         Vice President
/s/     Stuart Easley,                                                   
                         Member
/s/    Scott A. Faultless,                                                
                         Member
/s/    Deborah H. Heckart,                                                
                         Member
/s/    Roy G. Holland,                                                   
                         Member
/s/    Timothy O. Lima,                                                
                         Member
ATTEST:  /s/  Linda Gaye Cordell, Clerk-Treasurer, Town of Fishers, Indiana;
   Approved by: Douglas D. Church of Church, Church, Hittle and Antrim - Town
Attorney
ORDINANCE NO. 040799
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING
   A SUPPLEMENT TO THE TOWN OF FISHERS, INDIANA
   CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati Ohio, has
completed the 1998 supplements to the Town of Fishers, Code of Ordinances. Such
supplements include all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision to or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances based on
or referencing sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Fishers,
Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the 1997 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fishers, Indiana as prepared by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and upon
its adoption in accordance with the law.
   PASSED AND ORDAINED by the Fishers Town Council this 7th day of April, 1999.
   TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FISHERS, HAMILTON COUNTY, INDIANA
      AYE                                 NAY
BY:
/s/                     Walter F. Kelly,
                        President
/s/                     James P. Roederer,
                        Vice President
/s/                     Stuart Easley,
                        Member
/s/                     Scott A. Faultless,
                        Member
/s/                     Deborah H. Heckart,
                        Member
/s/                     Roy G. Holland,
                        Member
/s/                     Timothy 0. Lima,
                        Member
ATTEST: /s/               Linda Gaye Cordell, Clerk-Treasurer, Town of Fishers,
Indiana;
   Approved by: Douglas D. Church of Church, Church, Hittle and Antrim - Town
Attorney
ORDINANCE NO. 050100
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING
   A SUPPLEMENT TO THE TOWN OF FISHERS, INDIANA
   CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati Ohio, has
completed the 1999 supplements to the Town of Fishers, Code of Ordinances. Such
supplements include all ordinances of a general nature enacted since the prior
supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this municipality; and
   WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision to or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances based on
or referencing sections of the Indiana Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Council to accept these updated sections in
accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Indiana;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Fishers,
Indiana:
   SECTION 1. That the 1999 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Fishers, Indiana as prepared by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   SECTION 2. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and upon
its adoption in accordance with the law.
   PASSED AND ORDAINED by the Fishers Town Council this 1st day of May, 2000.
   TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FISHERS, HAMILTON COUNTY, INDIANA
      AYE                                 NAY
BY:
/s/                     Walter F. Kelly,
                        President
/s/                     Scott A. Faultless,
                      Vice President
                     Timothy O. Lima,
                        Member
/s/                     Stuart F. Easley,
                        Member
/s/                     Eileen N. Pritchard,
                        Member
                     James W. Wallace,
                        Member
/s/                     Arthur E. Bottoroff,
                        Member
ATTEST: /s/               Linda Gaye Cordell,
Clerk-Treasurer, Town of Fishers, Indiana;
   Approved by: Douglas D. Church of Church, Church, Hittle and Antrim - Town
Attorney
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   CITY OWNED REAL ESTATE EXEMPTION
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Fishers shall be
designated as the Code of Fishers and may be so cited.
(Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY, or TOWN. The City of Fishers,
Hamilton County, Indiana.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Hamilton County, Indiana.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Indiana.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
(Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words were clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time that is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a Sunday, it shall be extended to the following Monday.
(Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If an IC cite is included in the history, this indicates that
the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: IC 36-4-5-3 (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If an IC cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 CITY COUNCIL.
      The legislative authority of the town shall be vested in and exercised by
the City Council.
    (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For general provisions concerning the City Council, see IC 36-4-6 et seq.
(Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
CHAPTER 11: CITY OWNED REAL ESTATE EXEMPTION
Section
   
11.01   Applicable real estate
   
11.02   Public improvements, improvement on or to city owned property and
review of same
§ 11.01 APPLICABLE REAL ESTATE.
   All land owned in part or in full by the city or a subsidiary is hereby
exempt from all developmental standards and/or design standards set out in the
city Code of Ordinances (i.e. including but not limited to Chapter 158 Sign
Ordinance, Stormwater Management Ordinance, and the Unified Development
Ordinance). All other state and federal laws and regulations (i.e. State
Building Code) shall remain in full force and affect.
(Ord. 061608B, passed 6-16-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 11.02 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS, IMPROVEMENT ON OR TO CITY OWNED PROPERTY AND
REVIEW OF SAME.
   (A)   Project(s) on city owned property shall go through a review process
and make every effort possible to adhere to the development and design
standards contained herein.
   (B)   A review list outlining any deviations, if any, from the above
referenced standards shall be created, kept with the master file, and be made
available for review upon request.
   (C)   The above mentioned list shall also be issued, in memo format, to the
Public Works and Safety Board as a part of their project review and approval
process.
(Ord. 061608B, passed 6-16-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   ELECTED OFFICIALS
      
31.   PERSONNEL AND PAY
      
32.   DEPARTMENT, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY - POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   CITY POLICIES
      
36.   ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
37.   CITY COURT
CHAPTER 30: ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
City Council
   
30.01   Authority/City Council to serve as legislative branch
   
30.02   Council districts
   
30.03   Council members
   
30.04   President and Vice President of Council
   
30.05   Meetings
   
30.06   Quorum
   
30.07   Voting
   
30.08   Publication and notice of ordinances
   
30.09   Loans and bonds
   
30.10   Temporary or short term loans in anticipation of current revenues
   
30.11   Electronic participation policy
   
30.12   Standing committees
   
30.13   Appointments to non-standing committees, boards, and commissions
Mayor
   
30.20   Authority
   
30.21   Election and eligibility
   
30.22   Mayoral responsibilities
   
30.23   Appointments
   
30.24   Hear complaints/issue licenses
   
30.25   Meetings with departments; records
   
30.26   Mayor's absence
   
30.27   Mayor unable to discharge duties
City Clerk
   
30.30   Election
   
30.31   Clerk's authority and responsibility
   
30.32   Office space
   
30.33   Clerk's City Court duties
City Controller
   
30.40   City fiscal officer
   
30.41   Authority and responsibility
   
30.42   Bond
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.01 AUTHORITY/CITY COUNCIL TO SERVE AS LEGISLATIVE BRANCH.
   The City Council elected under IC 3-10-6 et seq. is the city legislative
body. Pursuant to IC 36-4-4-4, as amended, all powers and duties that are
legislative in nature shall be exercised or performed by the Council. The
Council may not elect or appoint a person to any office or employment, except
as provided by statute.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.02 COUNCIL DISTRICTS.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-1.5-3, the councilmanic districts are established as set
forth in Ordinance 100713A, passed November 4, 2013, which is incorporated by
reference and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.03 COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Council shall be composed of nine members of which six shall be
elected from districts and three elected at-large, pursuant to IC 36-4-6-3.
   (B)   The term of office of a member of the Council is four years, beginning
at noon on January 1 after the election and continuing until the successor is
elected and qualified, except that Council members elected in 2014 shall serve
a term of one year pursuant to IC 36-4-1.5-4.
   (C)   (1)   A member of the City Council must reside within:
         (a)   The city as provided in Article 6, Section 6 of the Constitution
of the State of Indiana; and
         (b)   The district from which the member was elected, if applicable.
      (2)   A member of the City Council who is elected by the voters of a
district forfeits office if the member ceases to be a resident of the district
from which he is elected.
      (3)   An at-large member of the City Council forfeits office if the
member ceases to be a resident of the city.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.04 PRESIDENT AND VICE-PRESIDENT OF COUNCIL.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-6-8(a):
   (A)   At its first regular meeting of the year, and each succeeding January,
the City Council shall choose from its members a President and a Vice
President.
   (B)   The Council President is the presiding officer. When the President is
absent, the Vice-President shall preside for that meeting.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.05 MEETINGS.
   Unless or until modified by resolution, the regular meetings of the City
Council shall be held on the first and third Mondays of each month. Exceptions
shall be made as needed with as much notice to the public of any such change as
possible, but in no event less than 48 hours notice of such change. Additional
meeting dates as needed may be set on not less than 48 hour notice or such
other notice as may be required by state law.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.06 QUORUM.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-6-10, a majority of all the elected members of the City
Council constitutes a quorum.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.07 VOTING.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-6-11:
   (A)   A requirement that an ordinance, resolution, or other action of the
City Council be passed by a majority vote means at least a majority vote of all
the elected members. A requirement that an ordinance, resolution or other
action of the City Council be passed by a two-thirds vote means at least a two-
thirds vote of all the elected members.
   (B)   A majority vote of the City Council is required to pass an ordinance,
unless a greater vote is required by statute, pursuant to IC 36-4-6-12.
   (C)   Pursuant to IC 36-4-6-13, a two-thirds vote of all the elected
members, after unanimous consent of the members present to consider the
ordinance, is required to pass an ordinance of the City Council on the same day
or at the same meeting at which it is introduced. This division (C) does not
apply to a zoning ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance that is adopted
under IC 36-7.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.08 PUBLICATION AND NOTICE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-4-6-14, an ordinance, order, or resolution passed by
the City Council is considered adopted when it is signed by the presiding
officer and Mayor or passed by the City Council over the veto of the Mayor
pursuant to IC 36-4-6-16. If required by statute, an adopted ordinance, order,
or resolution must be promulgated or published before it takes effect.
   (B)   An ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation must,
before it takes effect, be published in the manner prescribed by IC 5-3-1,
unless:
      (1)   It is published under division (C); or
      (2)   It declares an emergency requiring its immediate effectiveness and
is posted in one public place in each district in the city.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E), if the city publishes any of its
ordinances in book or pamphlet form, no other publication is required. If an
ordinance prescribing a penalty or forfeiture for a violation is published
under this division, it takes effect two weeks after the publication of the
book or pamphlet. Publication under this division, if authorized by the
legislative body, constitutes presumptive evidence:
      (1)   Of the ordinances in the book or pamphlet;
      (2)   Of the date of adoption of the ordinances; and
      (3)   That the ordinances have been properly signed, attested, recorded,
and approved.
   (D)   This section (other than division (F)) does not apply to a zoning
ordinance or amendment to a zoning ordinance, or a resolution approving a
comprehensive plan, that is adopted under IC 36-7 et. seq.
   (E)   An ordinance increasing a building permit fee on new development must:
      (1)   Be published:
         (a)   One time in accordance with IC 5-3-1; and
         (b)   Not later than 30 days after the ordinance is adopted by the
legislative body in accordance with IC 5-3-1.
      (2)   Delay the implementation of the fee increase for 90 days after the
date the ordinance is published under divisions (E)(1).
   (F)   Subject to division (J), the City Council shall:
      (1)   Subject to division (G), give written notice to the Department of
Environmental Management not later than 60 days before amendment or repeal of
an environmental restrictive ordinance; and
      (2)   Give written notice to the Department of Environmental Management
not later than 30 days after passage, amendment, or repeal of an environmental
restrictive ordinance.
   (G)   Upon written request by the City Council, the Department of
Environmental Management may waive the notice requirement of division (F)(1).
   (H)   An environmental restrictive ordinance passed or amended after 2009 by
the City Council must state the notice requirements of division (F).
   (I)   The failure of an environmental restrictive ordinance to comply with
division (H) does not void the ordinance.
   (J)   The notice requirements of division (F) apply only if the municipal
corporation received under IC 13-25-8-8.5(f) written notice that the Department
of Environmental Management is relying on the environmental restrictive
ordinance referred to in division (F) as part of a risk based remediation
proposal:
      (1)   Approved by the Department of Environmental Management; and
      (2)   Conducted under IC 13-22, IC 13-23, IC 13-24, IC 13-25-4 or IC 13-
25-5.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.09 LOANS AND BONDS.
   The City Council may, by ordinance, to or perform the following:
   (A)   Make loans of money and issue bonds for the purpose of refunding those
loans. The loans may be made only for the purpose of procuring money to be used
in the exercise of the powers of the city or for the payment of city debts.
   (B)   An ordinance adopted under this section:
      (1)   Must include the terms of the bonds to be issued in evidence of the
loan;
      (2)   Must include the time and manner of giving notice of the sale of
the bonds;
      (3)   Must include the manner in which the bonds will be sold; and
      (4)   May authorize a total amount for any issue of bonds.
   (C)   Bonds issued under this section may be sold in parcels of any size and
at any time their proceeds are needed by the city.
   (D)   Bonds issued and sold by a city under this section:
      (1)   Are negotiable with or without registration, as may be provided by
the ordinance authorizing the issue;
      (2)   May bear interest at any rate;
      (3)   May run not longer than 30 years;
      (4)   May contain an option allowing the city to redeem them in whole or
in part at specified times prior to maturity; and
      (5)   May be sold for not less than par value.
   (E)   The Controller shall:
      (1)   Manage and supervise the preparation, advertisement, negotiations,
and sale of bonds under this section, subject to the terms of the ordinance
authorizing the sale;
      (2)   Certify the amount the purchaser is to pay, together with the name
and address of the purchaser;
      (3)   Receive the amount of payment certified;
      (4)   Deliver the bonds to the purchaser;
      (5)   Take a receipt for the securities delivered;
      (6)   Pay the purchaser's payment into the city treasury; and
      (7)   Report the proceedings in the sale to the legislative body. The
actions of the Controller under this subsection are ministerial.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.10 TEMPORARY OR SHORT TERM LOANS IN ANTICIPATION OF CURRENT REVENUES.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-4-6-19, the City Council may, by ordinance, make
loans of money for not more than five years and issue notes for the purpose of
refunding those loans. The loans may be made only for the purpose of procuring
money to be used in the exercise of the powers of the city, and the total
amount of outstanding loans under this subsection may not exceed 5% of the
city's total tax levy in the current year (excluding amounts levied to pay debt
service and lease rentals). Loans under this subdivision shall be made in the
same manner as loans made under this chapter, except that:
      (1)   The ordinance authorizing the loans must pledge to their payment a
sufficient amount of tax revenues over the ensuing five years to provide for
refunding the loans; and
      (2)   The loans must be evidenced by notes of the city in terms
designating the nature of the consideration, the time and place payable, and
the revenues out of which they will be payable.
Notes issued under this subdivision are not bonded indebtedness for purposes of
IC 6-1.1-18.5.
   (B)   The City Council may, by ordinance, make loans and issue notes for the
purpose of refunding those loans in anticipation of revenues of the city that
are anticipated to be levied and collected during the term of the loans. The
term of a loan made under this subsection may not be more than five years.
Loans under this subdivision, among other procedures required by law, shall be
made as follows:
      (1)   The ordinance authorizing the loans must appropriate and pledge to
their payment a sufficient amount of the revenues in anticipation of which they
are issued and out of which they are payable; and
      (2)   The loans must be evidenced by time warrants of the city in terms
designating the nature of the consideration, the time and place payable, and
the revenues in anticipation of which they are issued and out of which they are
payable.
   (C)   An action to contest the validity of a loan made under this section
must be brought within 15 days from the day on which the ordinance is adopted.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.11 ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION POLICY.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   The provisions of P.L. 88-2021 (HEA 1437) (the “Act”), including
definitions, are hereby incorporated into this policy.
      (2)   This policy shall be known as the “electronic participation policy”
of the Common Council and applies to the Common Council and any committee
appointed directly by the Common Council or its presiding officer.
   (B)   Electronic participation.
      (1)   Subject to divisions (C) and (E), any member may participate in a
meeting by any electronic means of communication that:
         (a)   Allows all participating members of the governing body to
simultaneously communicate with each other; and
         (b)   Other than a meeting that is an executive session, allows the
public to simultaneously attend and observe the meeting.
      (2)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication:
         (a)   Shall be considered present for purposes of establishing a
quorum; and
         (b)   May participate in final action only if the member can be seen
and heard.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
      (4)   A member who participates by an electronic means of communication
shall strive to notify the Council President at least 48 hours in advance of
the meeting, unless emergency circumstances dictate otherwise.
   (C)   Restrictions on electronic participation.
      (1)   At least 50% of the members must be physically present at a meeting
at which a member will participate by means of electronic communication. Not
more than 50% of the members may participate by an electronic means of
communication at that same meeting.
      (2)   A member may not attend more than 50% of the meetings in a calendar
year by an electronic means of communication, unless the member’s electronic
participation is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (3)   A member may attend two consecutive meetings (a “set”) by
electronic communication. A member must attend in person at least one meeting
between a set that the member attends by electronic communication, unless the
member’s absence is due to:
         (a)   Military service;
         (b)   Illness or other medical condition;
         (c)   Death of a relative; or
         (d)   An emergency involving actual or threatened injury to persons or
property.
      (4)   No member of the Council may participate by means of electronic
communication in a meeting at which the Council may take final action to:
         (a)   Adopt a budget;
         (b)   Make a reduction in personnel;
         (c)   Initiate a referendum;
         (d)   Impose or increase a fee;
         (e)   Impose or increase a penalty;
         (f)   Exercise the Council’s power of eminent domain; or
         (g)   Establish, impose, raise or renew a tax.
   (D)   Minutes/memoranda. The minutes or memoranda of a meeting at which any
member participates by electronic means of communication must:
      (1)   Identify each member who:
         (a)   Was physically present at the meeting;
         (b)   Participated in the meeting by electronic means of
communication; and
         (c)   Was absent; and
      (2)   Identify the electronic means of communication by which:
         (a)   Members participated in the meeting; and
         (b)   Members of the public attended and observed the meeting, if the
meeting was not an executive session.
   (E)   Declaration of emergency.
      (1)   If an emergency is declared by (a) the Governor under IC 10-14-3-
12; or (b) the Mayor under IC 10-14-3-29, members are not required to be
physically present for a meeting until the emergency is terminated.
      (2)   Members may participate in a meeting by any means of communication
provided that:
         (a)   At least a quorum of the members participate in the meeting by
means of electronic communication or in person;
         (b)   The public may simultaneously attend and observe the meeting
unless the meeting is an executive session; and
         (c)   The minutes or memoranda of the meeting must comply with
division (D) above.
      (3)   All votes taken during a meeting at which at least one member
participates by an electronic means of communication must be taken by roll call
vote.
(Res. 122021B, passed 12-20-21)
§ 30.12 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The standing committees (“standing committees”) of the Common Council
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Budget and Finance Committee. Notwithstanding emergency
circumstances, the Committee shall consider any matter of financial impact to
be placed before the entire Common Council, prepare and review budget requests
related to the city’s annual budget, and any other matter properly referred to
the Committee by the Council President.
      (2)   Rules Committee. The Committee shall consider and recommend
proposed changes regarding the rules of the Common Council; state and federal
legislation; Council appointments to non-standing council committees, boards,
or commissions; and any other matter properly referred to the Committee by the
Council President.
      (3)   Non-Profit Committee. The Committee shall consider and recommend
grant awards to non-profit corporations that serve and benefit Fishers, subject
to annual appropriation, and any other matter properly referred to the
Committee by the Council President.
   (B)   The standing committees shall consist of at least three Council
members and shall have at least one member from the minority party, each as
determined and appointed by the Council President. The Council President shall
appoint each standing committee chairperson. Council members may indicate to
the Council President their preference for standing committee membership. All
standing committee appointments shall be made after the January Council meeting
in which the Council President is elected, and all appointments shall be deemed
final upon assignment by the Council President.
   (C)   Following the first reading of an ordinance or other matter properly
before the Common Council, the same may, at the discretion of the Council
President, be assigned to a standing committee for consideration and review. At
any regular meeting of a standing committee, any matter which has been referred
to the standing committee pursuant to this section but has not been reported
back to the Common Council shall be a proper item of committee business.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the standing committee to consider all
proposals referred to them as well as any other city matters that are within
the scope and purpose of their standing committee as generated by the committee
chairperson.
   (E)   The Mayor and Clerk (or their respective designees), city staff, and
other representatives as permitted by the committee chairperson shall be
entitled to participate in the discussion before any standing committee at the
direction of the committee chairperson. A majority of all standing committee
members shall constitute a quorum. Only members of the standing committee shall
be entitled to vote on committee business.
   (F)   The standing committee to which a matter is referred shall make a
report thereon recommending passage, non-passage, amendment, or no
recommendation at the next scheduled meeting of the Council.
   (G)   The standing committee chairperson, or any other standing committee
member designated by the standing committee chairperson, shall make the
standing committee’s report to the Council.
   (H)   Each standing committee shall meet at the call of the standing
committee chairperson, provided notice is given in accordance with Indiana law.
   (I)   The Clerk, or her designee, shall take meeting minutes of all standing
committee meetings.
   (J)   Where applicable, the Council rules of procedure shall apply to all
standing committees.
   (K)   Other standing committees of the Common Council shall be created by
majority vote by the Council.
(Ord. 101121C, passed 1-18-22)
§ 30.13 APPOINTMENTS TO NON-STANDING COMMITTEES, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS.
   Council members may indicate their preference for appointments to the
Council President for any non-standing Council committee, board, or commission
where council memberships or council appointments on the board or commission is
required by Indiana law or local ordinance. All annual appointments shall first
be assigned to the Rules Committee for its recommendation, and then presented
to the full Council at the January Council meeting for final consideration.
After annual appointments have been made by the Council, any non-standing
council committee, board or commission vacancy may be filled by the Council
President.
(Ord. 101121C, passed 1-18-22)
MAYOR
§ 30.20 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-4-3, the powers and duties of a city that are executive
or administrative in nature shall be exercised or performed by the Mayor,
another city officer, or a city department. If an executive or administrative
function is not assigned by a statute, ordinance, or resolution, the Mayor
shall assign that function to the proper department or officer.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.21 ELECTION AND ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-4-5-2, a mayor, who is the city executive, shall be
elected under IC 3-10-6 by the city's voters.
   (B)   A person is eligible to be Mayor if the person:
      (1)   Has resided in the city for at least one year or resides in
territory annexed by the city prior to the election; and
      (2)   Meets the qualifications prescribed by IC 3-8-1-26.
      (3)    The Mayor forfeits office if the Mayor ceases to be a resident of
the city.
   (C)   The Mayor's term of office is for four years, beginning at noon on
January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected and
qualified, except that the Mayor elected in 2014 shall serve a one year term
pursuant to IC 36-4-1.5-4.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.22 MAYORAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-5-3, the Mayor shall:
   (A)   Enforce the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state;
   (B)   Provide a statement of the finances and general condition of the city
to the City Council at least once a year;
   (C)   Provide any information regarding city affairs that the City Council
requests;
   (D)   Recommend, in writing, to the City Council actions that the Mayor
considers proper;
   (E)   Call special meetings of the City Council when necessary;
   (F)   Supervise subordinate officers;
   (G)   Ensure efficient government of the city;
   (H)   Fill vacancies in city offices when required by IC 3-13-8;
   (I)   Sign all bonds, deeds, and contracts of the city and all licenses
issued by the city; and
   (J)   Approve or veto ordinances, orders, and resolutions of the City
Council under IC 36-4-6-15.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.23 APPOINTMENTS.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-5-4, the Mayor shall make the appointments of city
officers and employees and appointments to city boards and commissions as
required by law.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.24 HEAR COMPLAINTS/ISSUE LICENSES.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-5-5, the Mayor is authorized to do the following:
   (A)   Adjudicate complaints against a person to whom a license is issued
following the procedure set forth in state statutes; and
   (B)   Following such proceedings, revoke or suspend city issued licenses.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.25 MEETINGS WITH DEPARTMENTS; RECORDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-4-5-6, at least once a month, the Mayor shall meet
with the officers in charge of the city departments:
      (1)   For consultation on the affairs of the city;
      (2)   To adopt rules and regulations for the administration of the
affairs of city departments; and
      (3)   To adopt rules and regulations prescribing a merit system for
selecting, appointing, or promoting city officers and employees.
   (B)   A record of meetings under this section shall be kept.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.26 MAYOR'S ABSENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-4-5-9, whenever the Mayor is absent or going to be
absent from the city, ill, or injured, he or she may designate the following as
acting executive for a maximum of 15 days in any 60 day period:
      (1)   The deputy mayor, if that position has been established; or
      (2)   A member of the City Council.
   (B)   The designation of an acting executive shall be certified pursuant to
IC 36-4-5-9.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.27 MAYOR UNABLE TO DISCHARGE DUTIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-4-5-9, the President or President Pro Tempore of the
Council may file with the Hamilton County Circuit Court a written statement
suggesting that the Mayor is unable to discharge the powers and duties of his
office, and the Circuit Court shall convene within 48 hours to decide that
question. After that, when the Mayor files with the Circuit Court his written
declaration that no inability exists, the Circuit Court shall convene within 48
hours to decide whether that is the case. Upon a decision that no inability
exists, the Mayor shall resume the powers and duties of his office.
   (B)   If the Court decides that the Mayor is unable to discharge the powers
and duties of his office, then:
      (1)   The deputy mayor, if that position has been established; or
      (2)   The City Council President;
shall serve as acting Mayor, with all the powers of the office for a maximum of
six months. The city legislative body may appropriate funds to compensate a
person acting as Mayor.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CITY CLERK
§ 30.30 ELECTION.
   The City Clerk is elected every four years pursuant to IC 3-10-6 by Fishers'
voters. Except that the Clerk elected in 2014 shall serve a one year term
pursuant to IC 36-4-1.5-4.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.31 CLERK'S AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-10-4 the City Clerk serves as the city's clerk and
shall:
   (A)   Serve as clerk of the city legislative body under IC 36-4-6-9 and
maintain custody of its records;
   (B)   Maintain all records required by law;
   (C)   Keep the City Seal;
   (D)   As soon as a successor is elected and qualified, deliver to the
successor all the records and property of the Clerk's office;
   (E)   Perform other duties prescribed by law;
   (F)   Administer oaths when necessary in the discharge of the Clerk's
duties, without charging a fee;
   (G)   Take depositions, without charging a fee;
   (H)   Take acknowledgment of instruments that are required by statute to be
acknowledged, without charging a fee;
   (I)   Serve as Clerk of the City Court.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.32 OFFICE SPACE.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-10-2.5, space shall be made available for the Clerk,
Clerk's staff and records maintained by the Clerk's office.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.33 CLERK'S CITY COURT DUTIES.
   Pursuant to IC 33-35-3-2, the City Clerk is the Clerk of the City Court.
   (A)   The Clerk shall give bond payable to the city in the penal sum of
$1,000, with surety to be approved by the Mayor and conditioned on the faithful
and honest discharge of the Clerk's duties.
   (B)   The Clerk may administer oaths.
   (C)   The Clerk shall:
      (1)   Issue all process of the Court, affix the seal of the Court to the
process, and attest to the process;
      (2)   Keep a complete record and docket of all cases showing:
         (a)   The name of a person who was arrested and brought before the
Court;
         (b)   The disposition of the case; and
         (c)   An account of the:
            1.   Fees;
            2.   Fines;
            3.   Penalties;
            4.   Forfeitures;
            5.   Judgments;
            6.   Executions;
            7.   Decrees; and
            8.   Orders; in as near to the same manner as the records are kept
by the Clerk of the circuit court; and
      (3)   Collect all:
         (a)   Fees;
         (b)   Fines;
         (c)   Penalties and forfeitures;
         (d)   Judgments;
         (e)   Executions; and
         (f)   Money; accruing to the city from the enforcement of ordinances.
   (D)   At the close of each week, the Clerk shall make and deliver to the
Controller a written report of all cases in which the clerk has received or
collected any fines or forfeitures due the city. The Clerk shall then pay over
the money to the Controller and take a receipt for the payment.
   (E)   At the end of each month, the Clerk shall make out and deliver to the
County Treasurer of the county in which the city is located a written report of
all cases in which the Clerk has received or collected any fines or forfeitures
due the state during the month and pay to the County Treasurer all fines or
forfeitures collected, taking a receipt for the payment.
   (C)   The Clerk shall deposit all court costs collected by the clerk in
accordance with IC 33-37-7-12. The Clerk shall distribute the state and county
share of court costs collected in accordance with IC 33-37-7-8.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CITY CONTROLLER
§ 30.40 CITY FISCAL OFFICE.
   The City Controller, appointed by the Mayor pursuant to IC 36-4-9-6, shall
serve as the city's fiscal officer.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.41 AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-4-10-5, the Controller shall:
      (1)   Prescribe the form of reports and accounts to be submitted to the
Controller;
      (2)   Sign and issue all warrants on the city treasury;
      (3)   Audit and revise all accounts and trusts in which the city is
concerned;
      (4)   Keep separate accounts for each item of appropriation made for each
city department, including a statement showing the amount drawn on each
appropriation, the unpaid contracts charged against it, and the balance
remaining;
      (5)   At the end of each fiscal year, submit under oath to the City
Council a report of the accounts of the city published in pamphlet form and
showing revenues, receipts, expenditures, and the sources of revenues;
      (6)   Maintain custody of the records of the department and turn them
over to the fiscal officer's successor in office;
      (7)   Perform duties prescribed by statute concerning the negotiation of
city bonds, notes, and warrants;
      (8)   Keep a register of bonds of the city and of transfers of those
bonds;
      (9)   Manage the finances and accounts of the city and make investments
of city money, subject to the ordinances of the Council;
      (10)   Issue city licenses on payment of the license fee;
      (11)   Collect fees as fixed by ordinance;
      (12)   Pay into the city treasury, once each week, all fees and other
city money collected by the department during the preceding week, specifying
the source of each item;
      (13)   Prescribe payroll and account forms for all city offices;
      (14)   Prescribe the manner in which salaries shall be drawn;
      (15)   Prescribe the manner in which creditors, officers, and employees
shall be paid;
      (16)   Provide that all salaries are payable monthly, unless the
legislative body establishes more frequent payments;
      (17)   Notify the Mayor of the failure of any city officer to collect
money due the city or to pay city money into the city treasury;
      (18)   Draw warrants on the city treasury for miscellaneous city
expenditures not made under the direction of a department and not specifically
fixed by statute.
   (B)   The Controller shall have all other authority provided in IC 36-4-10
et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 30.42 BOND.
   Pursuant to IC 5-4-1-18, the Controller shall file an individual surety bond
or the City Council may by ordinance authorize the purchase of a blanket bond
or a crime insurance policy endorsed to include faithful performance to cover
the faithful performance of all employees, commission members, and persons
acting on behalf of the city, including the Controller and other city officers
described in IC 5-4-1-18(a).
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 31: PERSONNEL AND PAY
Section
   
31.01   Compensation
   
31.02   Compensation of elected officials
   
31.03   Compensation of appointed officers, deputies and other employees
   
31.04   Additional compensation
§ 31.01 COMPENSATION.
   As used in this section and consistent with IC 36-4-7-2, compensation means
the total of all money paid to an elected city officer for performing duties as
a city officer, regardless of the source of funds from which the money is paid.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-7-2(b), the City Council shall by ordinance fix the
annual compensation of all elected city officers which amount may not be
changed in the year for which it is fixed nor may it be reduced below the
amount fixed for the previous year.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS, DEPUTIES AND OTHER EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-4-7-3, subject to the approval of the City Council,
the Mayor shall fix the compensation of each appointive officer, deputy, and
employee of the city, other than members of its Police and Fire Departments.
The legislative body may reduce but may not increase any compensation fixed by
the Mayor. Compensation must be fixed under this section not later than
November 1 of each year for the ensuing budget year.
   (B)   Compensation fixed under this section may be increased or decreased by
the executive during the budget year for which it is fixed.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Clerk may, with the approval of the
City Council, fix the salaries of deputies and employees appointed under IC 36-
4-11-4.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 31.04 ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-7-4:
   (A)   Subject to the approval of the City Council, the Mayor may provide
that city officers and employees receive additional compensation for services
that:
      (1)   Are performed for the city;
      (2)   Are not governmental in nature; and
      (3)   Are connected with the operation of a municipally owned utility or
function.
   (B)    Subject to the approval of the Mayor and City Council, the
administrative agency operating the utility or function shall fix the amount of
the additional compensation, which shall be paid from the revenues of the
utility or function.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Advisory Park Committee and Street Tree Board
   
32.01   Establishment; functions; members
   
32.02   Budget/role of Advisory Committee/city property
   
32.03   Street Tree Board
Department of Health
   
32.05   Establishment
Redevelopment Commission and Redevelopment Authority
   
32.15   Establishment/members
   
32.16   Taxing district
   
32.17   Membership; terms
   
32.18   Redevelopment Authority
   
32.19   Redevelopment Authority Board
Department of Economic Development
   
32.25   Establishment
Economic Development Commission
   
32.30   Establishment
   
32.31   Powers, privileges and duties
   
32.32   Members and term
   
32.33   Compensation
   
32.34   Oath of office
   
32.35   Meetings; election of officers
   
32.36   Bylaws, rules and regulations
   
32.37   Pecuniary interest
Plan Commission
   
32.50   Establishment
   
32.51   Membership; composition
   
32.52   Terms
   
32.53   Duties, powers and procedures
Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA)
   
32.54   Creation
   
32.55   Membership
   
32.56   Terms
   
32.57   Duties
   
32.58   Fall Creek Board of Zoning Appeals (FCBZA)
   
32.59   FCBZA Terms
Arts and Culture Commission
   
32.60   Creation
Advisory Committee on Disability
   
32.62   City of Fishers Advisory Committee on Disability (FACD)
Impact Fee Advisory Committee
   
32.65   Creation
   
32.66   Membership
   
32.67   Duties
Hoosier Heritage Port Authority
   
32.75   Establishment; term; expansion
   
32.76   Powers
   
32.77   Purpose
   
32.78   Organization
   
32.79   Fiscal affairs
   
32.80   Bylaws
Stormwater Utility
   
32.90   Operation of stormwater utility
Additional Executive Departments
   
32.95   Additional executive departments
   
32.96   Department heads
   
32.97   Duties
Public Works and Safety Board
   
32.100   Establishment
   
32.101   Members
   
32.102   Duties
Conflicts
   
32.105   Conflicts
Armed Services Commission
   
32.110   City of Fishers Armed Services Commission
ADVISORY PARK COMMITTEE AND STREET TREE BOARD
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT; FUNCTIONS; MEMBERS.
   There is hereby established pursuant to the provisions of IC 36-10-2-2 the
Advisory Park Committee which shall act at the pleasure of the Mayor and the
City Council and which shall offer such advice as it may determine is
reasonably related to the public purpose of such group which is defined to be
as follows: to advise the Mayor and the City Council in the establishment, aid,
and operation of public parks, playgrounds and recreational facilities
programs. The Advisory Park Committee shall consist of five members, three of
which shall be appointed by the Mayor and two of which shall be appointed by
the Council.
(Ord. 041890C, passed 4-18-90; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.02 BUDGET/ROLE OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE/CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   The budget for recreational activity, public parks, playgrounds and
recreational facilities shall be established pursuant to IC 36-4-7 et seq. and
approved as part of the budgeting process by the City Council.
   (B)   With regard to the operation of any public parks, playgrounds and
recreational facilities or programs, the Advisory Park Committee is advisory
only to the Mayor and the City Council to the extent desired by the Mayor and
the City Council.
   (C)   Pursuant to IC 36-9-6 et seq. the Public Works and Safety Board is
responsible for the maintenance, repair and supervision all city-owned property
including property comprising the city's park facilities.
(Ord. 041890C, passed 4-18-90; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.03 STREET TREE BOARD.
   The Parks Advisory Committee is hereby designated to also serve as the
Street Tree Board.
   (A)   The Committee shall follow its unusual election of officers, meeting
schedule, and terms of membership.
   (B)   In addition to its duties of advising the Mayor and the City Council
on park and recreation matters, the Committee shall also serve to advise on
matters concerning tree planting and care throughout the city.
(Ord. 012208B, passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
§ 32.05 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Establishment of Department. The city shall have a full- time Health
Department ("Department"). The Department shall operate as an agency of the
city, administratively responsible to the Mayor.
   (B)   Establishment of Board of Health.
      (1)    The Department shall be managed by a Board of Health ("Board")
consisting of seven members appointed by the Mayor, not more than four of whom
belong to the same political party. At least three of the members must be
licensed physicians. At least one of the members must be a licensed
veterinarian. The initial members of the Board shall be appointed as follows:
         (a)   One shall serve for a period of two years;
         (b)    Two shall serve for a period of three years; and
         (c)   Four shall serve for a term of four years.
      (2)   At the expiration of the respective, initial terms, future
appointments shall be made for four years. Vacancies shall be filled in
accordance with IC 16-20-4-8. An individual who has a vested interest or may
gain financially from any activity of the Department or policy decision of the
Board is ineligible to serve on the Board.
   (C)   Board elections and meetings. After appointment, the Board shall
immediately meet and organize by electing a chairman, vice chairman, and other
officers the Board considers necessary. The Board shall hold a meeting in
January of each year, at which meeting officers shall be elected for the
following calendar year. The Board shall hold regular meetings quarterly in
January, April, July, and October. The Board may hold special meetings upon:
      (1)   Written request signed by three members and filed with the local
Health Officer; or
      (2)   Request of the Health Officer.
   (D)   Procedural rules. The Board may adopt procedural rules for the Board's
guidance and as are necessary or desirable to protect, promote, or improve
public health or to control disease not inconsistent with state statutes and
rules of the State Department.
   (E)   Powers and duties of the Board. The Board has the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   Take any action authorized by state statute or rule of the State
Department to control communicable diseases;
      (2)   Make sanitary and health inspections necessary to carry out the
purposes of IC 16-20-4;
      (3)   Investigate the existence of any contagious or infectious disease;
      (4)   Adopt measures, not inconsistent with the rules of the State
Department, to arrest the progress of contagious or infectious disease;
      (5)   Make all necessary sanitary and health investigations and
inspections;
      (6)   Enter into contracts for the provision of health services within
the Board's jurisdiction in accordance with IC 16-20-1-8;
      (7)   Contract or purchase planning services considered essential to the
development of an effective community health program in accordance with IC 16-
20-1-8;
      (8)   Confirm the appointment of professional employees who meet the
qualification requirements of the Board for the respective professional
employee positions;
      (9)   Provide reports of Department activities to the State Department in
accordance with State Department rules;
      (10)   Enforce the Board's or officer's orders, citations, and
administrative notices by an action in the circuit or superior court in
accordance with IC16-20-1-26;
      (11)   With the approval of the Mayor, establish and collect fees for
specific services and records established by local ordinances and state law;
however, fees may not exceed the cost of services provided. The fees shall be
accounted for and transferred to the Health Fund of the taxing jurisdiction;
and
      (12)   All other powers and duties as provided by Indiana law.
   (F)   Officers and employees of the Department. The Board shall prescribe
the duties of all officers and employees of the Department. The Board shall
authorize payment of salaries and all other Department expenses from the proper
fund.
   (G)   Health Officer.
      (1)   In accordance with IC 16-20-4-20, as amended, the Board shall
appoint a Health Officer who meets the requirements set forth in IC 16-20-1-
9.5, as amended. The appointment is subject to the approval of the City
Council. The Health Officer is the executive officer for the Department and
shall serve as secretary of the Board. The Health Officer must be a citizen of
the United States. If the Department wants to employ a Health Officer who is
not a physician, but meets the requirements of IC 16-20-1-9.5(a)(2), as
amended, the Department must do the following:
         (a)   Obtain the approval of the Mayor.
         (b)   Upon obtaining the approval under division (G)(1)(a), submit a
request to the executive board of the state department for approval to employ
the individual. The request must detail how the city plans to ensure the
appropriate clinical oversight for any provided medical services. The executive
board of the state department shall determine whether to approve a request
based on the needs of the requesting city and the qualifications of the
individual.
      (2)   A Health Officer may be appointed to serve simultaneously more than
one local board of health.
      (3)   A Health Officer serves a term of four years unless removed for
cause as provided in IC 16-20 et seq. The Health Officer shall have all powers
and duties as prescribed by IC 16-20 et seq.
   (H)   Budget and appropriations. The Board shall submit an annual budget to
the City Council for approval of the annual budget at the regular time for
consideration of annual budgets. The City Council shall annually make the
necessary appropriation for expenses of the Department even though the
appropriation may exceed existing limitations. However, the tax may not exceed
one mill on each dollar of assessed valuation of taxable property in addition
to other health appropriations. An appropriation may be made, as emergency
appropriations are made, to provide for the expenses of the operation of the
Department, until appropriations are made available by the next regular annual
budget after the Department has been authorized.
   (I)   Annual report. The Board shall publish in pamphlet form, within 90
days after January 1, for free distribution, an annual report for the previous
year showing the following:
      (1)   The amount of money received from all sources;
      (2)   The name of any donor;
      (3)   How all money has been expended and for what purposes;
      (4)   Other statistics and information concerning the work of the
Department that the Board considers to be of general interest.
(Res. 042420, passed 4-24-20; Am. Ord. 071524A, passed 7-15-24)
Cross reference:
   Communicable disease, see
Ch. 173
   Fees, see
Ch. 180
   Public and semi-public pool and spa operations, see
Ch. 171
   Residential on-site sewage systems, see
Ch. 172
   Retail food establishments, see
Ch. 170
REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION AND REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 32.15 ESTABLISHMENT/MEMBERS.
   (A)   The City Council previously established the Fishers Department of
Redevelopment which shall be controlled by a board of five members known as the
Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
   (B)   The head of the Department shall be appointed by the Mayor and
approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 03-27-89, passed 3-27-89; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.16 TAXING DISTRICT.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-14 et seq., all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the city will be a taxing district to be known as the
Redevelopment District of the city for the purpose of levying and collecting
special benefit taxes for redevelopment purposes as provided in the Act. The
City Council finds and determines that all of the taxable property within this
special taxing district will be considered to be benefitted by the
redevelopment project carried out under the Act to the extent of the special
taxes levied under the Act.
(Ord. 03-27-89, passed 3-27-89; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.17 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-14-3, three members of the Redevelopment Commission
shall be appointed by the Mayor and two shall be appointed by the City Council.
The term of all members shall be one year expire on January 1.
(Ord. 03-27-89, passed 3-27-89; Am. Ord. 022091G, passed 3-6-91; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.18 REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-14.5-7, the previously established the Fishers
Redevelopment Authority, a body corporate and politic that may exercise the
authority provided in IC 36-7-14.5 et seq.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.19 REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY BOARD.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-7-14.5-8, the Redevelopment Authority shall be
comprised of three members appointed by the Mayor who must be city residents.
   (B)   Board members serve a three-year term, may be reappointed to
subsequent terms and may not receive a salary for their service.
   (C)   If a vacancy occurs on the Board, the Mayor shall fill the vacancy by
appointing a new member for the remainder of the vacated term.
   (D)   A Board member may be removed for cause by the Mayor.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
§ 32.25 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Fishers Department of Economic Development, which is controlled by
the Fishers Economic Development Commission, was previously created and granted
all powers and duties of such Department and Commission as set forth in IC 36-
7-12 et seq.
   (B)   The head of the Department shall be appointed by the Mayor and
approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 04-20-88C, passed 4-20-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 32.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Council previously established the Fishers Economic Development
Commission which is controlled by a board of three members.
(Ord. 5-7-79A, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.31 POWERS, PRIVILEGES AND DUTIES.
   The Fishers Economic Development Commission shall have all powers,
privileges and duties as granted by IC 36-7-12 et seq. and hereinafter enacted
with respect to the promotion of economic development, including, without
limitation, the following:
   (A)   To enter into agreements concerning, and to acquire by any lawful
means, land or interest in land and personal property needed for the purpose of
this Commission.
   (B)   To exercise its power of eminent domain to acquire unimproved land or
unoccupied facilities and the land relating thereto for the purpose of this
Commission.
   (C)   To purchase, lease as lessee, construct, remodel, rebuild, enlarge or
substantially improve facilities, including machinery and equipment.
   (D)   To lease facilities to users or developers with or without an option
to purchase.
   (E)   To sell facilities to users or developers for consideration that may
be paid in installments or otherwise.
   (F)   To make direct loans to users or developers for the cost of
construction of facilities, in which event, the bonds shall be secured by the
pledge of one or more notes, debentures, bonds or other secured or unsecured
debt obligations of the user.
   (G)   To enter into agreements with users or developers to allow such users
or developers to wholly or partially construct facilities to be acquired by the
municipality.
   (H)   To issue bonds pursuant to the provisions of law, accomplish the
purpose of the Commission and secure the payments of the bonds as provided by
laws pertaining to this Commission.
(Ord. 5-7-79A, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord. 020685, passed 5-2-85; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.32 MEMBERS AND TERM.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-7-12-5, the Fishers Economic Development Commission
shall consist of three members appointed by the Mayor, one of which shall be
nominated by the Hamilton County Council and one of which shall be nominated by
the Fishers City Council.
   (B)   Members of the Commission shall take office upon their appointment and
their terms of office shall run from February 1 and conclude as follows:
      (1)   If appointed by the Mayor, for three years;
      (2)   If nominated by the Fishers City Council, for two years; and
      (3)   If nominated by the Hamilton County Council, for one year.
   (C)   Pursuant to IC 36-7-12-9, appointments shall be made within 15 days
after receiving notice from the Clerk that the Mayor is required to make an
appointment and the City Council and Hamilton County Council have made such
nominations. At the expiration of the respective terms of each of the
Commissioners originally appointed, their respective successors shall be
selected and nominated before the expiration of the term in the same manner as
the original appointee, and each succeeding member shall serve for a term of
four years. In the event any person appointed as Commissioner shall fail to
qualify as hereinafter provided within ten days after the mailing to him of
notice of his appointment, or if any member after qualifying shall die, resign
or vacate such office, or be removed as provided by law, a new Commissioner
shall be selected or nominated and appointed to fill such vacancy in the same
manner as the Commissioner in respect to whom such vacancy occurred, and the
Commissioner so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the vacated term.
Commissioners shall hold over after the expiration of their terms until their
respective successors have been duly appointed and have qualified.
(Ord. 5-7-79A, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.33 COMPENSATION.
   Commission members shall not receive salaries but shall be entitled to
reimbursement for any expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their
duty.
(Ord. 5-7-79A, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.34 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Each Commissioner, before entering upon his or her duties, shall take and
subscribe an oath of office in the usual form, to be endorsed upon the
certificate of his or her appointment, which shall be promptly filed with the
Clerk.
(Ord. 5-7-79A, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.35 MEETINGS; ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Commissioners shall meet within 30 days after their appointment at
a time and place designated by the Mayor to reorganize in the month of February
of each succeeding year.
   (B)   The Commissioners shall elect one of its members as President, one as
Vice-President and one as Secretary, each of which officers shall serve from
the day of his or her election until January 31 next following his or her
election and until his or her successor is elected and qualified.
(Ord. 5-7-79A, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.36 BYLAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Commission is authorized to adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations as
it may deem necessary for the proper conduct of its proceedings, the carrying
out of its duties and the safeguarding of the funds and property placed in its
possession. Regular or special meetings shall be held at such time as it may
determine and upon such notice as it may fix, either by resolution or in
accordance with the provisions of the bylaws, rules and regulations adopted. A
majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum and the concurrence of a
majority shall be necessary to authorize any action.
(Ord. 5-7-79A, passed 5-7-79; Am. Ord.091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.37 PECUNIARY INTEREST.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-7-12-16, a Commissioner shall disclose any pecuniary
interest in any employment, financing agreement, or other contract made under
this chapter before any action by the Commission on it, and shall not vote on
any such matter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other law, a member of the City Council may have a
pecuniary interest in any employment, financing agreement, or other contract
made under this chapter if he or she discloses his or her pecuniary interest
before any action by the fiscal body on it and does not vote on any such
matter.
   (C)   If any property in which a Commissioner or member of the City Council
has a pecuniary interest is property required for the purposes of this chapter,
that property may be acquired, but only by gift or condemnation.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
PLAN COMMISSION
§ 32.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established an advisory City Plan Commission under the
authority of IC 36-7-4-200 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 12, passed 12-6-71; Am. Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.51 MEMBERSHIP; COMPOSITION.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-207(b), the membership of the Commission shall be
composed of 11 members as follows:
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint three persons, who must be elected or
appointed municipal officials or employees in the municipal government;
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint four citizen members, of whom no more than two
may be of the same political party;
   (C)   Pursuant to the terms of certain joinder agreements with Delaware
Township, the Delaware Township Trustee shall appoint two individuals to serve
on the Plan Commission; and
   (D)   Pursuant to the city's exercise of two mile jurisdiction outside its
incorporated boundaries, the Hamilton County Commissioners shall appoint two
individuals to serve on the Plan Commission pursuant to IC 36-7-4-214(a).
(Ord. 12, passed 12-6-71; Am. Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14 )
§ 32.52 TERMS.
   (A)   Terms of appointed official members shall coincide with their terms of
office or appointment, except that the City Council at the first regular
meeting of any year may appoint another to serve as its representative from the
city government and members appointed by the Delaware Township Trustee shall
serve a term of two years.
   (B)   Terms of two of the citizen members shall be for three years and terms
of the other two citizen members shall be for a term of four years.
   (C)   Terms of the citizen members shall expire on the first day of January
of the third and fourth year, respectively, following their appointments.
Thereafter, as terms expire, each new appointment shall be for a term of four
years.
   (D)   Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-218, members of the Commission may be removed
for cause.
(Ord. 12, passed 12-6-71; Am. Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.53 DUTIES, POWERS AND PROCEDURES.
   The responsibilities, duties, powers and procedures of the City Plan
Commission shall be as set forth in IC 36-7-4-200 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 12, passed 12-6-71; Am. Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS (BZA)
§ 32.54 CREATION.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-901 there is hereby established a board of zoning
appeals known as the Fishers Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.55 MEMBERSHIP.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-902(a), the Fishers Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals
shall consist of six members as follows:
   (A)   Three citizen members appointed by the Mayor, of whom one must be a
member of the Plan Commission and two members who must not be members of the
Plan Commission;
   (B)   One citizen member appointed by the City Council, who must not be a
member of the Plan Commission;
   (C)   One member appointed by the Plan Commission from the Plan Commission's
membership, who must be a county agricultural agent or a citizen member of the
Plan Commission other than the member appointed under division (A);
   (D)   Pursuant to the joinder agreement with Delaware Township, one member
appointed by the executive of Delaware Township and approved by Delaware
Township's legislative body.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.56 TERMS.
   (A)   Consistent with IC 36-7-4-906, members of Fishers Advisory Board of
Zoning Appeals shall initially serve for the following terms that expire on
first day of January of the first, second, third and fourth year, respectively,
following their appointments:
      (1)   One for a term of one year;
      (2)   One for a term of two years;
      (3)   One for a term of three years;
      (4)   Three for a term of four years which shall include the member
appointed under the joinder agreement.
   (B)   Thereafter, as terms expire, each new appointment shall be for a term
of four years. Members of the Fishers Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals may be
removed for cause.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.57 DUTIES.
   The responsibilities, duties, powers and procedures of the Fishers Advisory
Board of Zoning Appeals shall be as set forth in IC 36-7-4-900 et seq., as
amended.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.58 FALL CREEK BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS (FCBZA).
   The city previously established a separate division of its BZA for the
unincorporated areas of Fall Creek Township known as the Fall Creek BZA or
FCBZA. The FCBZA shall consist of five members who meet the qualifications of
IC 36-7-4-906(a) and are appointed in accordance with IC 36-7-4-902(a). The
Mayor shall appoint three members, one of whom is a citizen member of the Plan
Commission and two of which are citizen members who are not also members of the
Plan Commission. The Council shall appoint one citizen member who is not a
member of the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall then appoint the fifth
member from its membership excluding the Plan Commission member appointed to
the FCBZA by the Mayor. The term for members shall be four years pursuant to IC
36-7-4-906(a).
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.59 FCBZA TERMS.
   (A)   Consistent with IC 36-7-4-906, Members the FCBZA shall initially shall
initially serve for the following terms that expire on first day of January of
the first, second, third and fourth year, respectively, following their
appointments:
      (1)   One for a term of one year;
      (2)   One for a term of two years;
      (3)   One for a term of three years;
      (4)   Two for a term of four years.
   (B)   Thereafter, as terms expire, each new appointment shall be for a term
of four years.
   (C)   Members of the Fishers Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals may be removed
for cause.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
ARTS AND CULTURE COMMISSION
§ 32.60 CREATION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created the City of Fishers Arts and
Culture Commission. The Commission's budget will be considered within the
city's Planning and Zoning Department, which shall be approved as part of the
budgeting process by the City Council.
   (B)   Purpose. The Commission shall assist the city in becoming a community
in which arts and cultural activities are recognized as vital components of
community life; valued and promoted for their economic benefits; and represent
an integral part of the city's vibrant community and lifelong learning.
   (C)   Composition and term. The Commission shall be comprised of seven board
members to be appointed by the Mayor, one of which shall be a member of the
Common Council. Additionally, the Mayor shall appoint up to three non-voting
advisory members, which include representatives from the city's Community
Development and Parks and Recreation Departments. Terms of every voting member
shall be for two years.
   (D)   Duties, powers, and procedures.
      (1)    The Commission may perform the following:
         (a)   Adopt rules for affiliate memberships to encourage inclusivity
and greater participation;
         (b)   Enter into contracts within the limit of funds available with
individuals, organizations and institutions for services furthering the
objectives of the Commission;
         (c)   To accept gifts, contributions and bequests of funds from
individuals, foundations, corporations, limited liability companies, and other
organizations or institutions;
         (d)   Develop and manage the Master Arts and Culture Plan, including
setting annual goals and updating progress;
         (e)   Make recommendations for how to expend city funds lo support
art;
         (f)   Serve as public art review committee;
         (g)   Maintain listing of current community assets; and
         (h)   Identify opportunities and apply for grant writing and
sponsorship.
      (2)   Any city board or commission may refer projects which contemplate
art to the Commission for its review and consideration.
(Ord. 082018C, passed 8-20-18)
ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON DISABILITY
§ 32.62 CITY OF FISHERS ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON DISABILITY (FACD).
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created the City of Fishers Advisory
Committee on Disability. The Committee’s budget will be considered within the
City’s Administration Department, which shall be approved as part of the
budgeting process by the City Council.
   (B)   Purpose. The Committee shall further assist the city’s efforts of
becoming a community where persons of all abilities are recognized as a key
component to our vibrancy; where persons with disabilities are recognized as
vital members of the community; and to establish priorities and strategies to
address the various challenges and needs facing the disability community. The
Committee will promote inclusion and accessibility and strive to make Fishers a
community where people with physical and intellectual disabilities can live
life without limits.
   (C)   Composition and term. The Committee shall be comprised of nine voting
members to be appointed by the Mayor, two of which shall be designated as co-
chairs of the Committee. Additionally, the Mayor shall appoint up to four non-
voting advisory members which include representatives from the city’s Community
Development, Public Relations, and Parks & Recreation departments. Terms of
every voting and non-voting member shall be for two years. Committee members
may be re-appointed. Committee membership should include Fishers residents who
are:
      (1)   Professionals in advocacy, inclusion, and service to people with
disabilities within the city;
      (2)   People experienced with facing unique challenges by living with a
disability as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”),
including, but not limited to, hearing impairment, intellectual or
developmental disability, psychiatric disability, mobility disability, or
vision impairment;
      (3)   The City of Fishers ADA Coordinator;
      (4)   An employee of the HSE School’s Division of Exceptional Learners;
      (5)   A family member or in-home caregiver of an individual living with
disabilities with five or more years of experience; or
      (6)   A local employer who actively employs a person/people with
disabilities.
   (D)   Duties, powers, and procedures. The Committee may perform the
following:
      (1)   Provide strategic direction/guidance of:
         (a)   March Disability Awareness Month campaign and events;
         (b)   Fishers ADA Transition Plan; and
         (c)   Any similar programming created by the city.
      (2)   Represent the diverse needs and interests of the people with
intellectual and development disabilities in the city;
      (3)   Review and provide feedback on the city’s current services,
policies and practices;
      (4)   Provide informed input on the development and assessment of future
city projects and services that impact people with intellectual and
developmental disabilities;
      (5)   Work in partnership with local area employers and community
partners to increase employment and meaningful work opportunities of people
with intellectual and developmental disabilities in the city;
      (6)   Collaborate with disability stakeholders, community partners and
city leaders to foster a culture of inclusivity and enrich the lives of
individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities and their
families;
      (7)   Adopt rules for affiliate memberships to encourage inclusivity and
greater participation;
      (8)   Accept gifts, contributions, and bequests of funds from
individuals, foundations, corporations, limited liability companies, and other
organizations or institutions;
      (9)   Enter into contracts within the limitation of funds available with
individuals, organizations and institutions for services furthering the
objectives of the Committee; and
      (10)   Any city board or committee may refer projects which contemplate
physical or intellectual disabilities to the Committee for its review and
consideration.
(Ord. 022122A, passed 2-21-22)
IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 32.65 CREATION.
   There is hereby created a five-member body to be known as the Fishers Impact
Advisory Committee, pursuant to the provisions of IC 36-7-4-1312(b).
(Ord. 09-1891C, passed 10-2-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.66 MEMBERSHIP.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-1312, the members of the Fishers Impact Fee Advisory
Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor and at least 40% of the members shall
represent the development, building, or real estate industries.
(Ord. 09-1891C, passed 10-2-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.67 DUTIES.
   The Fishers Impact Fee Advisory Committee shall serve in an advisory
capacity and assist and advise the Mayor and City Council with regard to the
adoption of any impact fee ordinance permitted by state law. The Fishers Impact
Fee Advisory Committee shall have the authority to investigate matters in
support of its function as state statutes, as amended, allow.
(Ord. 09-1891C, passed 10-2-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
HOOSIER HERITAGE PORT AUTHORITY
§ 32.75 ESTABLISHMENT; TERM; EXPANSION.
   (A)   There was previously established the Historic Railroad Multi-
Jurisdictional Port Authority to be commonly known as "The Hoosier Heritage
Port Authority" subject to all powers and authority granted and conferred by
Indiana Code, as amended.
   (B)   In addition to the establishment of the Historic Railroad Multi-
Jurisdictional Port Authority by the City of Noblesville, the Town of Fishers,
and the county, (which shall hereafter be referred to as "The Jurisdictional
Members") the Historic Railroad Multi-Jurisdictional Port Authority may be
expanded to include other municipal corporations in the following manner:
      (1)   The municipal corporation seeking to join the multi-jurisdictional
port authority shall make application in a form prescribed by the Board of
Trustees seeking admission thereof;
      (2)   The Board of Trustees and the applicant shall define the
appropriate consideration for such admission;
      (3)   The Board of Trustees must vote unanimously in favor of accepting
the application;
      (4)   Upon unanimous acceptance of the application by the Board of
Trustees, the applicant must adopt an ordinance which is in substantially the
same form as this ordinance which establishes this subchapter, subject only to
the following amendments which shall be incorporated by amendment to this
subchapter by the legislative bodies of the Jurisdictional Members
participating in the multi-jurisdictional port authority:
         (a)   That the membership of the Board of Trustees shall be expanded
to include members for each municipal corporation added hereafter, such members
to serve for terms of three years to be appointed by the executive officer of
the Jurisdictional Member joining the port authority, or in accordance with
such other provision for appointment as the Jurisdictional Member may
determine.
   (C)   The term of existence of the Hoosier Heritage Port Authority shall be
in perpetuity.
   (D)   Upon the mutual adoption by the Town of Fishers, the City of
Noblesville, and Hamilton County of Ordinance 070506A, the membership of the
Hoosier Heritage Port Authority has been expanded to include all of said units,
subject to all of the powers and authority granted and conferred by the Indiana
Code.
(Ord. 090794B, passed 12-7-94; Am. Ord. 041598 passed 4-15-98; Am. Ord.
070506A, passed 7-5-06; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.76 POWERS.
   The Hoosier Heritage Port Authority shall have all the powers permitted
under the laws of the State of Indiana as from time to time amended, limited
only by the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 090794B, passed 12-7-94; Am. Ord. 070506A, passed 7-5-06; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.77 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Hoosier Heritage Port Authority shall be to protect
and preserve the existence of the real estate described as a single parcel of
real estate in perpetuity for such uses as may benefit the citizens of
Noblesville, Fishers and Hamilton County including, but not necessarily limited
to, recreational, transportation and tourism purposes.
   (B)   In order to implement the full participation of Hamilton County in the
Authority and the ownership of the right-of-way, the City of Noblesville and
the City of Fishers conveyed an undivided one-sixth interest in the real estate
to Hamilton County by quit-claim deed, resulting in each unit owning an
undivided one-third interest in the real estate.
(Ord. 090794B, passed 12-7-94; Am. Ord. 041598 passed 4-15-98; Am. Ord.
070506A, passed 7-5-06; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.78 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   Members. The business and affairs of the Hoosier Heritage Port
Authority shall be conducted by a Board of Trustees consisting of six members,
two of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Fishers, and two of
whom shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Noblesville; one member
appointed by the Board of Commissioners of Hamilton County, and one member
appointed by the Hamilton County Council.
   (B)   Terms. Members of the Board of Trustees shall be appointed for a term
of three years. The terms of all existing official and ex officio members shall
continue until their present terms expire. Thereafter, as each initial term
expires, the successor shall serve for a full three-year term. The appointing
executive shall deliver a certificate of appointment to such trustee
designating the term of his or her office.
   (C)   There shall be no limit on the number of successive terms a trustee
may serve.
   (D)   A trustee may be removed at any time without cause by the appointing
authority of such trustee. A replacement appointment shall serve the unexpired
term of the trustee so removed.
   (E)   Each trustee upon appointment shall take an oath of office in the
appropriate form.
   (F)   Officers.
      (1)   From the membership of the Board shall be elected the following
officers for a term of one year:
         (a)   President;
         (b)   Vice-President;
         (c)   Secretary;
         (d)   Treasurer.
      (2)   Officers may serve successive terms if elected.
(Ord. 090794B, passed 12-7-94; Am. Ord. 041598 passed 4-15-98; Am. Ord.
070506A, passed 7-5-06; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.79 FISCAL AFFAIRS.
   (A) All funds of the Hoosier Heritage Port Authority shall be deposited in a
special account known as the Hoosier Heritage Port Authority Fund which shall
be maintained under the supervision of the Treasurer and subject to annual
audit as may be required by law. Monies received shall be deposited in
accordance with sound fiscal practices; and shall be paid out only upon claims
approved by the Board.
   (B)   No claims shall be approved for any expenditure not consistent with
the purposes set forth herein. No contract or undertaking shall be approved
with any third party that causes the Hoosier Heritage Port Authority to become
liable for the expenditure of funds which is not consistent with the purposes
set forth herein.
(Ord. 090794B, passed 12-7-94; Am. Ord. 041598 passed 4-15-98; Am. Ord.
070506A, passed 7-5-06; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.80 BYLAWS.
   The Board of Trustees shall adopt bylaws for the conduct of the affairs of
the Hoosier Heritage Port Authority as needed and not inconsistent with the
provisions of this subchapter or state law.
(Ord. 090794B, passed 12-7-94; Am. Ord. 041598 passed 4-15-98; Am. Ord.
070506A, passed 7-5-06; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
STORMWATER UTILITY
§ 32.90 OPERATION OF STORMWATER UTILITY.
   The storm water utility shall operate in accordance with Indiana law, and
specifically IC § 36-9-23.
(Ord. 061818B, passed 6-18-18)
ADDITIONAL EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS
§ 32.95 ADDITIONAL EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-9 et seq., the City Council hereby creates, upon
recommendation by the Mayor, the following executive departments:
   (A)   Department of finance;
   (B)   Department of Law;
   (C)   Department of Public Works;
   (D)   Department of Human Resources;
   (E)   Department of Parks and Recreation;
   (F)   Department of Community Development;
   (G)   Fleet Department;
   (H)   Department of Engineering; and
   (I)   Department of Information Technology.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.96 DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-4-9-4 and 36-4-9-6, the Mayor shall appoint the
following who shall serve under the jurisdiction of the Mayor:
      (1)   A City Controller;
      (2)   A City Civil Engineer;
      (3)   Corporation Counsel;
      (4)   A Chief of the Fire Department;
      (5)   A Chief of the Police Department; and
      (6)   Other officers, employees, boards, and commissions required by
statute.
   (B)   Further, pursuant to IC 36-4-9-7, the City Council hereby establishes
the position of Deputy Mayor, who serves as the city executive's deputy. The
Mayor may appoint a Deputy Mayor, and the Deputy Mayor serves at the pleasure
of the Mayor. The Deputy Mayor may exercise the following powers which may not
exceed those of the Mayor:
      (1)   Enforce the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state;
      (2)   Provide a statement of the finances and general condition of the
city to the Council at least once a year;
      (3)   Provide any information regarding city affairs that the Council
requests;
      (4)   Recommend, in writing, to the Council, actions that he or she
considers proper;
      (5)   Call special meetings of the Council when necessary;
      (6)   Supervise subordinate officers;
      (7)   Insure efficient government of the city;
      (8)   Fill vacancies in city offices when required by state statutes;
      (9)   Sign all bonds, deeds, and contracts of the city and all licenses
issued by the city; and
      (10)   Approve or veto ordinances, orders and resolutions of the
legislative body, pursuant to state statutes.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.97 DUTIES.
   Consistent with IC 36-4-9-4, the departments shall perform the
administrative functions assigned by statute and ordinance.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY BOARD
§ 32.100 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-9-5, a Public Works and Safety Board is hereby
established.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.101 MEMBERS.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-9-6, the Public Works and Safety Board is hereby
comprised of three members appointed by the Mayor. A member may hold other
appointive positions in city government during the member's tenure. IC 36-4-11-
2 applies to board member appointments under this section. The Mayor shall
appoint a clerk for the board. Members of the Board must reside within the
municipal boundaries of the City of Fishers.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 32.102 DUTIES.
   The responsibilities, duties, powers and procedures of the Public Works and
Safety Board shall be as set forth in IC 36-9-6 et seq. and IC 36-8-3, as
amended.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CONFLICTS
§ 32.105 CONFLICTS.
   (A)   Members of the city's boards and commissions, including, without
limitation, advisory boards and review committees are disqualified and may not
participate in a hearing, discussion, recommendation or vote of that commission
or board on a subject in which the member:
      (1)   Has a direct or indirect financial interest; or
      (2)   Is biased, prejudiced or otherwise unable to be impartial.
   (B)   City board and commission members shall be responsible for reporting
potential conflicts to the applicable board or commission and abstaining from
participating in hearings, discussions, recommendations or votes concerning any
matter on which the member has a potential conflict.
   (C)   Failure to report a conflict may subject members to individual and
personal liability, and neither the city nor its insurance carrier shall be
responsible for defending a board or commission member in a cause of action
arising out of or resulting from the member's failure to report a conflict.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
ARMED SERVICES COMMISSION
§ 32.110 CITY OF FISHERS ARMED SERVICES COMMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created the City of Fishers Armed
Services Commission. The Commission’s budget will be considered within the
city’s Administration Department, which shall be approved as part of the
budgeting process by the City Council.
   (B)   Purpose. The Commission shall further assist the city’s efforts of
becoming a community where military service is honored and recognized as a key
component to our vibrancy; where military service is incorporated and promoted
in programming, policy decisions, and protocols; and to ensure that recognition
and appreciation towards military service is woven throughout the community and
understood as a critical component to the community’s sense of place. Those
serving, those who have served, those desiring to serve, and our entire
community that enjoys our daily freedom will be positively impacted by the
Commission.
   (C)   Composition and term. The Commission shall be comprised of 11 members
to be appointed by the Mayor. The Mayor shall appoint seven service-connected
residents of Fishers, five of which shall be veterans or individuals currently
serving in our Armed Forces. The remaining four members shall be: one
nomination filled by the American Legion Post 470; one nomination by the
OneZone Chamber of Commerce; and two nominations from the Superintendent of HSE
Schools, one faculty member and one student. Terms of every member shall be for
two years.
   (D)   Duties, powers, and procedures. The Commission may perform the
following:
      (1)   Provide strategic direction/guidance of:
         (a)   Hometown Help for Heroes program;
         (b)   Gold Star Memorial;
         (c)   Veteran Light Pole Banner program;
         (d)   Honor a Hero Brick Paver program;
         (e)   Special events (Veteran’s Day, Memorial Day, and the like); and
         (f)   Any similar programing created by the city;
      (2)   Develop events or programs that:
         (a)   Provide meaningful interactions related to honoring,
recognizing, and celebrating military service and the community; and
         (b)   Expand the vibrancy that accompanies armed forces recognition to
individuals not currently participating in this aspect of the community;
      (3)   Develop outreach initiatives to:
         (a)   Establish a listing of veterans and families in the community
currently serving; and
         (b)   Connect with other organizations or groups to build alliances
and collaborate on opportunities to further promote the Commission’s goals;
      (4)   Develop procedures and protocols for the city, which may include:
         (a)   Actions related to recognizing residents entering military
service, achievements during military service, or residents leaving military
service;
         (b)   Actions related to recognizing organizations or companies
supporting military service; and
         (c)   Actions related to recognizing significant military events;
      (5)   Adopt rules for affiliate memberships to encourage inclusivity and
greater participation;
      (6)   Accept gifts, contributions and bequests of funds from individuals,
foundations, corporations, limited liability companies, and other organizations
or institutions;
      (7)   Enter into contracts within the limitation of funds available with
individuals, organizations and institutions for services furthering the
objectives of the Commission; and
      (8)   Develop and manage a strategic plan, including setting annual goals
and updating progress.
   (E)   Any city board or commission may refer projects which contemplate
armed services to the Commission for its review and consideration.
(Ord. 122021, passed 1-18-22)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY - POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Public Works and Safety Board - city equipment
Police and Fire Departments - General Policies
   
33.10   Employment preferences
   
33.11   Vehicles
   
33.12   Police precincts
   
33.13   Participation in 1977 PERF Fund
   
33.14   Police and Fire Chiefs and upper level policy decisions
   
33.15   Compensation
Fire Department
   
33.20   Establishment
   
33.21   Purpose
   
33.22   Emergency medical services fees
   
33.23   Fire Merit Commission established
   
33.24   Commission authority and Department membership
   
33.25   Community Paramedic Program
Police Department
   
33.30   Establishment
   
33.31   Purpose
   
33.32   Police Merit Commission established
   
33.33   Merit Commission members
   
33.34   Commission authority
   
33.35   Commission rules
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY BOARD - CITY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-8-3-2, the Public Works and Safety Board has
exclusive control over all property relating to the following:
      (1)   Police Department;
      (2)   Fire Department, fire alarms, and fire escapes;
      (3)   Animal shelters; and
      (4)   Inspection of buildings.
   (B)   The Public Works and Safety Board may purchase the equipment and
supplies and make the repairs needed by the Police and Fire Departments.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS - GENERAL POLICIES
§ 33.10 EMPLOYMENT PREFERENCES.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-8-4-10, the Merit Commissions for the Police
Department and the Fire Department shall give a preference for employment
according to the following priority:
      (1)   A war veteran who has been honorably discharged from the United
States armed forces.
      (2)   A person whose mother or father was a:
         (a)   Firefighter of a unit;
         (b)   Municipal police officer; or
         (c)   County police officer; who died in the line of duty.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a person may not receive a preference
for employment unless the person:
      (1)   Applies; and
      (2)   Meets all employment requirements prescribed:
         (a)   By law, including physical and age requirements; and
         (b)   By the Fire or Police Department.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.11 VEHICLES.
   Members of the Police Department may not use vehicles owned or maintained by
their Department outside Hamilton County except during the performance of
official duties or as provided for by Department regulation.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.12 POLICE PRECINCTS.
   Pursuant to IC 36-8-3-3(f), the Public Works and Safety Board shall divide
the city into police precincts.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.13 PARTICIPATION IN 1977 PERF FUND.
   The City Council hereby acknowledges that it is mandated to participate in
the 1977 PERF Fund, all in accordance with IC 36-8-8-3.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.14 POLICE AND FIRE CHIEFS AND UPPER LEVEL POLICY DECISIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-8-3.5-11(a), the Mayor shall appoint and may remove
the Chief. The Chief shall appoint and may remove the Assistant Chief, Division
Commanders or any other person holding an upper level policy making position If
a person holding an upper-level policy making position is removed from his or
her position and he or she held a prior merit rank or position with the
Department, he or she shall be appointed by the Commission to his or her prior
held merit rank (immediately prior to his or her upper level appointment). If
such a merit rank is not open, the member is entitled to the pay of that merit
rank and shall be promoted to that merit rank as soon as an opening is
available. If a Chief, Assistant Chief or any other person holding an upper-
level policy making position did not hold a prior merit rank or position with
the Department, upon removal from his or her upper level policy making position
his or her employment with the Department is terminated without cause and
without a right to a hearing.
   (B)   In all other respects, the Fire Department and the Fire Chief and the
Police Department and the Police Chief, as provided for herein, shall be
governed by applicable statutes of the state, as set forth in Indiana Code, as
amended.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.15 COMPENSATION.
   The Police and Fire Chiefs shall recommend to the Mayor and the City Council
compensation to be paid to members of the Fire and Police Department in amounts
that are just and reasonable. By or before November 1 of each year, the Council
shall approve compensation for members of the Fire and Police Departments. The
appointment to the positions of Fire Chief and Police Chief and the regulation
of the respective Departments shall at all be pursuant to the provisions of
Indiana Code as from time to time amended which may be specifically applicable
to second class cities.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city hereby establishes a Fire Department as a department of the
municipal corporation of the city, pursuant to IC 36-8-2 et seq.
(Ord. 122089C, passed 12-20-89; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.21 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to IC 36-8-2-3, the Fire Department of the city is ordered,
authorized and directed to establish, maintain and operate a fire fighting and
fire prevention system on behalf of the citizens of the city and such others as
may lawfully contract for the provision of such service with the city.
(Ord. 122089C, passed 12-20-89; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.22 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES FEES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a schedule of fees for emergency medical
services provided by the city through its Emergency Medical Service Division of
the Fire Department. The schedule of fees for services is as follows:
Service Fees
Service Fees
   Base Charge & Patient Assessment                                    $ 150.00
   Oxygen/Administration                                               20.00
   Dressing/Bandaging                                                  25.00
   Cervical Immobilization                                             40.00
   bstetrics Management                                                20.00
   Burn Management                                                     25.00
   M.A.S.T. Application                                                40.00
   Splinting                                                           20.00
   Advanced Airway Management                                          70.00
   Cardiac Monitoring                                                  30.00
   Uncollected Account Final Bill                                       
      Service Fee                                                   15.00
   Misc./Other                                                         10.00
   Returned Check Charge                                               25.00
   Mileage-Loaded @ $25.00/Mi.                                          
   Advance Life Support Transport Rate                                 104.00
   Patient-originated response resulting in statement of release (non- 25.00
transport)
   Basic Life Support (BLS resident)                                   534.50
   Basic Life Support (BLS) non-resident                               1,200.00
   Advance Life Support Assessment (Medic assessment, BLS transport)   $ 475.00
   Advanced Life Support 1 (ALS-1 resident)                            677.80
   Advanced Life Support 1 (ALS-1) non-resident                        1,700.00
   Advanced Life Support 2 (ALS-2 resident)                            756.00
   Advanced Life Support 2 (ALS-2) non-resident                        1,900.00
   Advanced Life Support non-transport (resident)                      418.00
   Advanced Life Support non-transport (non-resident)                  1,000.00
 
   (B)   All such fees so collected shall be accounted for in a manner
prescribed by the Indiana State Board of Accounts. All such funds so collected
shall be deposited in the Emergency Medical Service Fund of the city and
appropriated therefrom in accordance with the laws. The Emergency Medical
Service Fund is hereby established as a non-reverting fund. Except as
specifically excluded by federal law relating to Medicare or Medicaid payments,
the city reserves the right to collect the entire fee which may be due,
notwithstanding the fact that upon assignment of insurance recovery, the
insurance pays less than the full amount due.
(Ord. 051591A, passed 5-15-91; Am. Ord. 031892A, passed 4-8-92; Am. Ord.
091598, passed 10-7-98; Am. Ord. 010702C, passed 1-7-02; Am. Ord. 022006C,
passed 2-20-06; Am. Ord. 121508, passed 12-15-08; Am. Ord. 051809, passed 5-18-
09; Am. Ord. 081511D, passed 9-6-11; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am.
Ord. 101121B, passed 11-15-21)
§ 33.23 FIRE MERIT COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-8-3.5 et seq. a Fire Merit Commission ("Commission")
is established to administer the Fire Department Merit System.
   (B)   Pursuant to IC 36-8-3.5-6, the Commission shall consist of five
Commissioners appointed in the following manner: two, who shall be members of
different political parties, appointed by the Mayor; one appointed by the City
Council; and two, who shall be members of different political parties, elected
by the career firefighters eligible to vote for such Commissioners as defined
by state law. To qualify as a Commissioner, an appointee must be of good moral
character, must have been a resident of the city for three consecutive years
immediately prior to appointment and must remain a resident of the city during
the commissioner's term. Not more than three of the Commissioners may be of the
same political party. A Commissioner may not be an active member of the city
Police or Fire Departments. All five Commissioners serving at the time this
section is amended shall continue to serve their term unless removed by their
respective electing or appointing authority. Thereafter, as a Commissioner's
term expires, the appropriate electing or appointing authority shall name the
Commissioner of its choice to begin serving a term of four years beginning on
January 1. Each Commissioner is subject to removal by their respective electing
or appointing authority for any cause that the electing or appointing authority
considers sufficient. Before entering upon his or her duties, each Commissioner
shall take and subscribe an oath. Each Commissioner shall also take and
subscribe an additional oath or affirmation that, in each appointment or
removal made by the Commission to or from the Fire Department under this
subchapter, he or she will not appoint or remove a member because of the
political affiliation of the person or for another cause or reason other than
that of the fitness of the person. The oath and affirmation shall be recorded
and placed among the records of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.24 COMMISSION AUTHORITY AND DEPARTMENT MEMBERSHIP.
   Pursuant to IC 36-8-3.5-10 and 36-8-3.5-11, the Commission may appoint,
subject to the qualifications set forth in state statutes and rules for
employment determined by the Commission, as many persons as necessary to serve
in the Fire Department. The Commission may establish a system for, and adopt
rules governing the selection and promotion of members of the Fire Department.
As needed, the Commission may also appoint other employees and promote
employees as necessary to carry on the work of the Fire Department. All persons
so appointed by the Commission must be of good moral character and serve only
during good behavior. Proceedings for the suspension, demotion or dismissal of
any member of the Fire Department shall be conducted in the manner prescribed
by IC 36-8-3.5 and the Commission's rules governing such proceedings.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.25 COMMUNITY PARAMEDIC PROGRAM.
   (A)   Recitals. The recitals stated in Ordinance 090214A are material to
this section and are made a part hereof as if fully restated.
   (B)   Authorization. The Fishers Fire Department Community Paramedic Program
is hereby established and specifically authorized to provide preventative
services.
   (C)   Availability of preventative services. For city residents to be
eligible to receive preventative services, the Fire Department must have the
following fully executed documents:
      (1)   An agreement with a hospital used by the resident to provide
preventative services;
      (2)   A specific, detailed order from a licensed physician that requests
that preventative services be provided for a specific patient ("order"); and
      (3)   Consent of the patient to participate in the Community Paramedic
Program.
   (D)   Hospital agreements. Agreements with hospital(s) desiring to
participate in the Community Paramedic Program shall, at a minimum, include
provisions for each of the following:
      (1)   Maintenance of patient records by the Fire Department;
      (2)   Compensation paid to the City of Fishers for services provided;
      (3)   Continuing training for EMTs and paramedics administering
preventative services; and
      (4)   Hospital oversight of the Community Paramedic Program.
   (E)   Oversight. The Fire Department's assigned Medical Director, who shall
be a licensed Indiana physician, shall be primarily responsible for providing
oversight for the Community Paramedic Program.
   (F)   Extraneous services. At no time shall an EMT or paramedic provide
medical preventative services that are not included in an order, outside or
beyond the EMT's or paramedic's training, outside the oversight of the Medical
Director or prior to receiving the resident's consent.
   (G)   Capacity. The Fire Department shall ensure that at all times it has
the capacity and availability to respond to emergency calls, and the Community
Paramedic Program shall not interfere with the Fire Department's ability and
capacity to promptly respond to emergency calls.
(Ord. 090214A, passed 9-15-14)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.30 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The city hereby establishes a Police Department as a department of the
municipal corporation of the city, pursuant to IC 36-8-2 et seq.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.31 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to IC 36-8-2-3, the Police Department of the city is ordered,
authorized and directed to establish, maintain and operate a public safety and
crime prevention system to preserve peace and safety on behalf of the citizens
of the city.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.32 POLICE MERIT COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-8-3.5 et seq., a Police Merit Commission
("Commission") is hereby established to administer the Police Department merit
system pursuant to IC 36-8-3.5 et seq. and this subchapter.
      (1)   Within 60 days after the adoption of this subchapter, at least
three weeks' notice shall be given to all active members of the department that
a meeting will be held to approve or reject the proposed merit system. The
notice shall be given by posting it in prominent places in all stations of the
Department. The notice must designate the time, place, and purpose of the
meeting.
      (2)   A copy of the ordinance or resolution shall be distributed to each
active member of the Department at least one week before the date of the
meeting.
      (3)   Only active members of the Department may attend the meeting, and
at the meeting one of them shall be selected as chairman. All voting must be by
secret written ballot.
      (4)   If a majority of the active members of the Department vote to
approve the merit system, the merit system takes effect on January 1 following
the vote. Appointments to the merit commission shall be made by March 1
following that January 1.
   (B)   After approval of the merit system, all members of the Department are
entitled to the same ranks and pay grades the members held under the prior
system.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.33 MERIT COMMISSION MEMBERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-8-3.5-6, the Commission shall consist of five
Commissioners appointed in the following manner: two, who shall be members of
different political parties, appointed by the Mayor; one appointed by the City
Council; and two, who shall be members of different political parties, elected
by the career police officers eligible to vote for such Commissioners as
defined by state law. To qualify as a Commissioner, an appointee must be of
good moral character and a legal resident of the city. Not more than three of
the Commissioners may be of the same political party. A Commissioner may not be
an active member of the city Police or Fire Departments. All five Commissioners
serving at the time this section is amended shall continue to serve their term
unless removed by their respective electing or appointing authority.
Thereafter, as a Commissioner's term expires, the appropriate electing or
appointing authority shall name the Commissioner of its choice to begin serving
a term of four years beginning on January 1. Each Commissioner is subject to
removal by their respective electing or appointing authority for any cause that
the electing or appointing authority considers sufficient.
   (B)   Before entering upon his or her duties, each Commissioner shall take
and subscribe an oath. Each Commissioner shall also take and subscribe an
additional oath or affirmation that, in each appointment or removal made by the
Commission to or from the Police Department under this subchapter, he or she
will not appoint or remove a member because of the political affiliation of the
person or for another cause or reason other than that of the fitness of the
person. The oath and affirmation shall be recorded and placed among the records
of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.34 COMMISSION AUTHORITY.
   The Commission shall have authority to administer discipline to Department
members including suspension, demotion, and termination of employment.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Commission shall not have authority over
Department members in upper-level policy making positions. The Chief of Police
shall retain the authority to administer discipline to Department members up to
and including 40 hours of unpaid suspension, which authority may be exercised
at the Chief's discretion and without approval of or review by the Commission.
The Commission's rules shall be adopted pursuant to IC 36-8-3.5-10. Proceedings
related to discipline, demotion, or dismissal of any member of the Police
Department shall be conducted in the manner prescribed by IC 36-8-3.5 et. seq.
and the Commission's rules governing such proceedings.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 33.35 COMMISSION RULES.
   Pursuant to IC 36-8-3.5-9:
   (A)   Within 30 days of selection, the Commission shall adopt rules to
govern the commission, including the time and place of regular monthly meetings
and special meetings that are necessary to transact the business of the
Commission. A majority of the Commissioners constitutes a quorum, and a
majority vote of all the Commissioners is necessary to transact the business of
the Commission. Each year the Commissioners shall select from among their
number a president, vice president, and secretary. The Commission shall keep a
permanent record of its proceedings.
   (B)   The Commission shall submit a proposed annual budget to the unit as
other budgets of the unit are submitted. The legislative body shall include in
its budget an amount sufficient for the necessary expenses of the Commission.
   (C)   The Commission shall act in accordance with this subchapter and
Indiana statutes governing merit commissions, as amended.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   (Reserved)
   
34.02   Prepayment of certain expenses
   
34.03   Reimbursable expenses
   
34.04   Expenditures of funds for promotion of city activities
   
34.05   Debt management policy
   
34.06   Reserves and liquidity policy
Funds
   
34.10   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
34.11   Criminal Investigation Fund
   
34.12   Special Construction Fund
   
34.13   Non-Reverting Parks and Recreation Fund
   
34.14   Non-Reverting Criminal Investigating Fund
   
34.15   Deferral Program Fund
   
34.16   Cash Change Funds and Petty Cash Funds
   
34.17   Sales Tax and Damage Deposit Refunds Agency Fund for the Parks and
Recreation Department
   
34.18   Agency Fund pertaining to Community Professional Partners of the Parks
and Recreation Department
   
34.19   Payment in Lieu of Open Space Fund
   
34.20   Health Department Fund
   
34.21   ARP Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund
   
34.22   Opioid settlement funds
   
34.23   Non-Reverting Community Center Fund
Food and Beverage Tax
   
34.40   Adoption
   
34.41   Taxable transactions
   
34.42   Establishment of Food and Beverage Tax Receipts Fund
   
34.43   Collection and distribution of tax revenue
   
34.44   Use of tax revenue
   
34.45   Covenant
   
34.46   Effective date of tax
Cross-reference:
   Investment policy, see §
35.50
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 (RESERVED).
§ 34.02 PREPAYMENT OF CERTAIN EXPENSES.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC 36-4-8-14, the Controller may make claim payments in
advance of board or Council allowance for the following kinds of expenses:
      (1)   Property or services purchased or leased from the United States
government, its agencies, or its political subdivisions;
      (2)   License or permit fees;
      (3)   Insurance premiums;
      (4)   Utility payments or utility connection charges;
      (5)   General grant programs where advance funding is not prohibited and
the contracting party posts sufficient security to cover the amount advanced;
      (6)   Grants of state funds authorized by statute;
      (7)   Maintenance or service agreements;
      (8)   Leases or rental agreements;
      (9)   Bond or coupon payments;
      (10)   Payroll;
      (11)   State, federal, or county taxes;
      (12)   Expenses that must be paid because of emergency circumstances;
      (13)   Expenses described in an ordinance:
         (a)   Vendor payments by credit card; and
         (b)   Paying credit card statements.
   (B)   Payment of expenses under this section must be supported by a fully
itemized invoice or bill certified by the Controller, and the City Council or
Public Works and Safety Board, as applicable, shall review and allow the claim
at its next regular or special meeting following the pre-approved payment of
the expense.
(Ord. 07-15-92B, passed 7-15-92; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
091916, passed 9-19-16)
§ 34.03 REIMBURSABLE EXPENSES.
   Whenever city funds are utilized to cause the repair or replacement of
damaged property and thereafter insurance proceeds are received by the city,
such insurance proceeds shall be deposited in the funds from which the original
monies were expended for the purpose of restoring such fund.
(Res. R-07-15-92, passed 7-15-92; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 34.04 EXPENDITURES OF FUNDS FOR PROMOTION OF CITY ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   There is hereby established an account for promotions which may be
funded by the City Council from time to time on the basis of request or
perceived need. It is the intent of the City Council in this regard that city
sponsored activities, projects or other promotions may be funded on a case-by-
case basis by resolution of the City Council meeting in regular session.
Examples of activities shall include, without limitation, the following:
   (B)   The Fishers Freedom Festival, The Fishers Celebration of Arts
Festival, Programs and projects involving local charitable organizations;
Community Forums promoted or sponsored by the City; Retreat Reception; Awards
or presentation ceremonies sponsored by the city; Development, printing and
distribution of the Fishers Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
   (C)   The Council shall retain discretion to define specific promotions
which it believes comply with the spirit of this section as such promotional
activities are presented to the city in regular session.
(Ord. 050797B, passed 5-7-97; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 34.05 DEBT MANAGEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   The Debt Management Policy, attached as Exhibit A to Ordinance 101915G
and incorporated by reference as if set forth in full herein, is hereby
adopted.
   (B)   The City Controller is hereby authorized to implement and oversee the
Debt Management Policy.
(Ord. 101915G, passed 10-19-15; Am. Ord. 112017B, passed 11-12-17)
§ 34.06 RESERVES AND LIQUIDITY POLICY.
   (A)   The Reserves and Liquidity Policy, attached as Exhibit A to Ordinance
021516E and incorporated by reference as if set forth in full herein, is hereby
adopted.
   (B)   The City Controller is hereby authorized to implement and oversee the
Reserves and Liquidity Policy.
(Ord. 101915H, passed 10-19-15; Am. Ord. 021516E, passed 2-15-16)
FUNDS
§ 34.10 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   There was previously established a Fishers Cumulative Capital
Development Fund.
   (B)   An ad valorem property tax levy was imposed and the revenues from the
levy will be retained in the Fund.
   (C)   The maximum rate of levy under division (B) did not exceed $0.05 per
$100 assessed valuation.
   (D)   The Fund was re-established for the years 2021 and 2022.
   (E)   The Fund shall be utilized for all purposes prescribed in IC 36-9-
15.5.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (E), funds accumulated in the Fund may be
spent for purposes other than the purposes stated in division (E), if the
purpose is to protect the public health, welfare or safety in an emergency
situation which demands immediate action. Money may be spent under the
authority of this division only after the Mayor issues a declaration that the
public health, welfare or safety is in immediate danger that requires the
expenditure of money in the Fund.
(Ord. 10-4-65; Ord. 8-20-84-A, passed 10-1-84; Ord. 08-19-87, passed 9-2-87;
Am. Ord. 080890, passed 8-8-90; Am. Ord. 070793, passed 7-21- 93; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Res. R031819A, passed 3- 18-19; Am. Res.
R032320A, passed 3-23-20; Am. Res. R031521D, passed 3-15-21; Am. Res. R041822A,
passed 4-18-22)
§ 34.11 CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Criminal Investigation Fund to be expended
by the Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners of the Police Department,
subject to approval of the Public Works and Safety Board in a public meting, in
accordance with the provisions, limitations and conditions of this section. The
money deposited in the Criminal Investigation Fund shall not be commingled
with, nor become part of, the General Fund of the city. The Criminal
Investigation Fund shall be a non-reverting fund.
   (B)   The source of funds to be deposited in the Criminal Investigation Fund
shall be from the public sale of seized property and funds derived from the
sale of seized property disposed of in accordance with the Department of
Justice policy, a copy of which is attached to Ordinance 07-15-92 (upon which
this section is based) as Exhibit A (which is hereby adopted and incorporated
as a part of this section as if fully set forth herein). Funds from either
source paid into the General Fund of the city shall immediately be paid over
and deposited into the Criminal Investigation Fund by the Controller.
   (C)   Authorized expenditures from the Criminal Investigation Fund shall be
utilized solely for law enforcement purposes and may include, without
limitation, the following:
      (1)   Purchase of vehicles and equipment needed for law enforcement
functions;
      (2)   Purchase of weapons and protective equipment;
      (3)   Purchase of investigative communications equipment;
      (4)   Payment of unbudgeted salaries and overtime for law enforcement
officers;
      (5)   Purchase of Automated Data Processing (ADP) equipment and software
to be used in support of law enforcement purposes;
      (6)   Payment of expenses for training of law enforcement personnel;
      (7)   Payment of expenses for travel and salaries for law enforcement
personnel;
      (8)   Use as reward money or expenses in the running of a "sting"
operation;
      (9)   Money used to make "buys" in connection with anticipated arrests;
      (10)   Costs associated with the construction, expansion, improvement or
operation of detention facilities; and
      (11)   Costs associated with public education on drug awareness, alcohol
abuse or other issues related to prevention of illegal or criminal activity.
   (D)   Requests for expenditures from the Criminal Investigation Fund shall
be made only by the Chief or Deputy Police Chief and shall be subject to formal
claim approval by the Public Works and Safety Board pursuant to IC 36-8-3-2.
   (E)   There shall be no reversion of the Criminal Investigation Fund or any
monies paid into the Criminal Investigation Fund to the General Fund of the
city. Funds from the sale of seized property may accumulate in the Criminal
Investigation Fund as a non-reverting fund. The Criminal Investigation Fund is
to be used exclusively for law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. 07-15-92, passed 7-15-92; Am. Ord. 100798B, passed 10-21-98; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 34.12 SPECIAL CONSTRUCTION FUND.
   (A)   The sales proceeds shall be deposited into a special fund of the city
hereby created and designated as 1-69 Economic Development Area Special
Construction Fund.
   (B)   All sales proceeds deposited into the 1-69 Economic Development Area
Special Construction Fund, together with all investment earnings thereon, are
hereby appropriated for the purpose of providing funds to be applied to the
cost of the road projects identified in the Economic Development Plan, I-69
Economic Development Area dated June 11, 2001 which was approved by the Town
Council on June 18, 2001 and is incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   Such appropriation is in addition to all appropriations provided for
in the existing budget and levy, and shall continue in effect until the
completion of the activities described in division (B).
   (D)   The Controller is hereby authorized and directed to certify and report
this appropriation to the Indiana State Board of Tax Commissioners as required
by law.
(Ord. 030402, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 34.13 NON-REVERTING PARKS AND RECREATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby maintained a non-reverting fund pursuant to Indiana
law to be known as The City of Fishers Non-Reverting Parks and Recreation Fund.
   (B)   Revenues collected from the following activities shall be deposited
into the Fund:
      (1)   Parks and recreation program fees;
      (2)   Parks and recreational facility rental fees;
      (3)   Revenue from the sale of parks and recreation related merchandise;
and
      (4)   Revenue collected from the sale of advertising space on parks and
recreation material.
   (C)   The Public Works and Safety Board shall provide periodically for
expenditures from this Fund for the following purposes:
      (1)   Parks and recreation programs and activities;
      (2)   Parks and recreation and material costs; and
      (3)   The improvement of parks and recreation amenities and
infrastructure.
   (D)   All costs associated with the Parks and Recreation Department,
including but not limited to administrative and overhead costs, shall be
applied to this Fund for accounting and recordkeeping purposes.
(Res. R111708B, passed 11-17-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 34.14 NON-REVERTING CRIMINAL INVESTIGATING FUND.
   (A)   This section enables the existing Criminal Investigation Fund, Fund
Number 394 ("Fund"), to be designated as the local Non-Reverting Fund for the
purposes of receiving, holding and managing proceeds from the sale of property
or deposit of money seized by the city's law enforcement officers in accordance
with IC 34-24-1-1 et seq. and any other monies received by the city's law
enforcement agency as a result of a forfeiture of property from time to time.
   (B)   The Fund shall serve as the local non-reverting fund to receive, hold
and manage proceeds from the sale of property or deposit of money seized by the
city's law enforcement officers in accordance with IC 34-24-1-1 et seq. and any
other monies received by the city's law enforcement agency as a result of a
forfeiture of property.
   (C)   The Controller shall keep records and monitor activities of all
receipts into the Fund. Subject to state statutes, disbursements may be made
from the fund upon a valid claim being presented to the Public Works and Safety
Board, subject to other requirements of processing and publication required by
state statute, including, without limitation, IC 34-24-1 et. seq.
   (D)   Money remaining in the Fund at the end of every budget year shall not
revert to any other source; rather, monies shall continue to be held in this
Non-Reverting Fund from year to year.
(Ord. 110209A, passed 11-2-09; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 34.15 DEFERRAL PROGRAM FUND.
   (A)   There is established a Deferral Program Fund. The Deferral Program
Fund shall be perpetual, unless terminated by subsequent ordinance duly enacted
by the City Council.
   (B)   The Deferral Program Fund shall be administered by the Controller who
shall maintain appropriately detailed records of all Deferral Program fees
deposited into and transferred out to the Deferral Program Fund.
   (C)   The Deferral Program Fund shall consist solely of fees collected
pursuant to the Ordinance Violation Deferral Program established under §
36.09 of this code ("Deferral Program"), plus any interest earned thereon as
permitted by law.
   (D)   Pursuant to IC 33-37-8-4, disbursement of monies from the Deferral
Program Fund may be used for the following purposes:
      (1)   Personnel expenses related to the operation of the program;
      (2)   Special training for a law enforcement officer;
      (3)   Electronic legal research;
      (4)   Office equipment, including computers, computer software,
communication devices, office machinery, furrushings, and office supplies;
      (5)   Any other purpose that benefits law enforcement and that is agreed
upon by the city fiscal body and the prosecuting attorney;
      (6)   Any other purpose permitted by IC 33-37-8-4(b).
   (E)   If the Deferral Program is tenninated, and after all Deferral Program
costs and expenses have been paid in full, the Deferral Program fees collected
and on deposit in the Deferral Program Fund shall revert to the city's General
Fund.
(Ord. 011712A, passed 2-6-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
34.16 CASH CHANGE FUNDS AND PETTY CASH FUNDS.
   (A)   The City Council hereby appoints and authorizes the City Controller to
revise the Cash Change and Petty Cash Fund Schedule as he sees most appropriate
at any time, but not to exceed $2,500 for any one till (cash box) or individual
departmental fund.
   (B)   The amount for the petty cash funds as provided for by the City
Controller shall be paid by warrant drawn on the appropriate fund in favor of
the custodians and shall be returned to the appropriate fund when there is a
change of custodian or when the fund is no longer needed.
   (C)   The custodian of the petty cash fund in each department shall continue
to be the department head or designee, who shall use the fund to pay small or
emergency items of operating expense. A receipt shall be provided for each
expenditure from the fund.
   (D)   The amounts for the cash change funds as provided for by the City
Controller shall be paid by warrant drawn on the appropriate fund in favor of
the custodians and shall be returned to the appropriate fund when there is a
change of custodian or when the fund is no longer needed.
   (E)   The custodian of the cash change fun in each department shall be the
department head or designee, who shall use the fund to make change when
collecting cash revenues. The custodian or designee shall account for the fund
in the same manner as other funds.
(Ord. 021615A, passed 2-16-15; Am. Ord. 081715B, passed 8-17-15)
§ 34.17 SALES TAX AND DAMAGE DEPOSIT REFUNDS AGENCY FUND FOR THE PARKS AND
RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Sales tax will be remitted to the Indiana Department of Revenue in
accordance with timing requirements established by the Indiana Department of
Revenue.
   (B)   Deposits will be refunded to the depositor upon satisfaction of the
terms of the deposit agreement. Violations of the deposit agreement will allow
the city to refund all, or a portion of, the deposit to the city to be
deposited into the Agency Fund.
   (C)   Other funds held in an agency capacity will be collected and
distributed in accordance with timing requirements established by the receiving
authority.
   (D)   The Sales Tax and Damage Deposit Refund shall remain in effect until
the city no longer receives sales tax and damage deposits refunds. Any
remaining undistributed balance will revert to the General Fund if the Sales
Tax and Damage Deposit Refund is declared dormant.
(Ord. 041816A, passed 4-18-16)
§ 34.18 AGENCY FUND PERTAINING TO COMMUNITY PROFESSIONAL PARTNERS OF THE PARKS
AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Program registration funds held in an agency capacity will be
collected and distributed in accordance with timing and terms outlined in the
Fishers Parks and Recreation Community Professional Partner Services Contracts.
   (B)   After the registration period for the applicable program ends, program
registration proceeds will be distributed to the Community Professional Partner
at the rate of 85% upon submission to the City Controller’s Office by Parks.
The remaining 15% of program revenue shall be distributed to the city’s General
Fund parks revenue account.
   (C)   Any remaining undistributed balance will revert to the General Fund if
the Community Professional Partner program is declared dormant.
(Ord. 011618, passed 1-16-18)
§ 34.19 PAYMENT IN LIEU OF OPEN SPACE FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of non-reverting fund. The Council hereby establishes
the Payment in Lieu of Open Space Fund, Fund Number 8130 (the "Fund") to be
designated as a local non-reverting fund.
   (B)   Purpose. The Fund shall serve as a local non-reverting fund for the
purposes of:
      (1)   Paying or reimbursing the city for the commissioning, installation,
maintenance and programming of public art throughout the city; or
      (2)   Paying or reimbursing the city for capital construction,
maintenance or other improvements to nearby regional parks.
   (C)   Administration of the Fund. The Controller shall keep records and
monitor activities of all receipts into the Fund. Disbursements may be made
from the Fund without the necessity of appropriation by the Council upon a
valid claim being presented to the city subject to any other requirements by
Indiana law.
   (D)   All monies in the Fund at the end of every budget year shall not
revert to any other source; rather, monies shall continue to be held in this
non-reverting fund from year to year.
(Ord. 061520, passed 6-15-20)
§ 34.20 HEALTH DEPARTMENT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of Fund. The Council hereby established the Health
Department Fund, Fund Number 20201 (the "Health Fund"), to be designated as a
local fund.
   (B)   Purpose. The Health Fund shall serve as a local fund which supports
purposes of the Health Department in accordance with IC 16- 20 et seq.
   (C)   Initial expenditures. The Council hereby authorizes the Controller to
expend $2,000,000 of already appropriated and available funds from the General
Fund to the Health Fund for the establishment of the Department of Health.
   (D)   Administration of the Fund. The Controller shall keep records and
monitor activities of all receipts into the Health Fund. Disbursements may be
made form the Health Fund without the necessity of appropriation by the Council
upon a valid claim being presented to the Board of Health or Board of Public
Works and Safety, as applicable, and subject to any other requirements
established by the Board of Health and Indiana law.
(Res.R042420A, passed 4-24-20)
§ 34.21 ARP CORONAVIRUS LOCAL FISCAL RECOVERY FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of the Fund. The Council hereby establishes the ARP
Coronavirus Local Fiscal Recovery Fund, Fund Number 1760 (the "ARP Fund"), to
be designated as a local fund.
   (B)   Purpose. The ARP Fund shall serve as a local fund which supports
expenditures in accordance with Section 603 of the Social Security Act and
guidance issued by federal and state agencies.
   (C)   Initial expenditure. The Council hereby appropriates the ARP funds to
be used for any lawful purpose in accordance with Section 603 of the Social
Security Act and guidance from all federal and state agencies regarding the
expenditures.
   (D)   Administration of the Fund. The Controller shall keep records and
monitor activities of the ARP Fund. Disbursements made from the ARP Fund will
be made in accordance with the city's claims approval process.
(Ord. 041921, passed 4-19-21)
§ 34.22 OPIOID SETTLEMENT FUNDS.
   (A)   Establishment of opioid funds.  The Common Council hereby establishes
the following as local non-reverting funds:
      (1)   Fund 2256: “Opioid Settlement Unrestricted”; and
      (2)   Fund 2257: “Opioid Settlement Restricted”.
   (B)   Use of funds. Fund 2256 (unrestricted) may be spent in manner similar
to the General Fund. Fund 2257 (restricted) shall be spent in accordance to the
Opioid Litigation Settlements Act, IC 4-16-15 et seq., Distributor Settlement,
Johnson & Johnson Settlement, and further guidance from counsel.
   (C)   Administration of funds. The Controller shall keep records and monitor
activities of all receipts into the opioid funds. The Controller shall provide
an annual report on the use of any restricted funds to FSSA.
   (D)   Non-reverting funds.  All monies remaining in the opioid funds at the
end of every budget year shall not revert to any other source; rather, monies
shall continue to be held in these non-reverting funds, from year to year.
(Ord. 121922, passed 12-19-22)
§ 34.23 NON-REVERTING COMMUNITY CENTER FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of non-reverting fund. The Council hereby establishes
the Community Center Fund, Fund Number 2781 (the “Fund”), to be designated as a
local non-reverting fund.
   (B)   Purpose. The Fund shall serve as a local non-reverting fund for the
purposes of (a) receiving proceeds as revenue from users of the Fishers
Community Center from programs, facilities, and resources; and (b) paying
applicable expenses relating to the Fishers Community Center relating to
programs, facilities, and resources.
   (C)   Administration of the Fund. The Controller shall keep records and
monitor activities of all receipts into the Fund. Disbursements may be made
from the Fund without the necessity of appropriation by the Council upon a
valid claim being presented to the city subject to any other requirements by
state law. The Community Center will determine and adopt an annual budget each
year as part of the city’s annual budget process.
   (D)   All monies remaining in the Fund at the end of every budget year shall
not revert to any other source; rather, monies shall continue to be held in
this non-reverting fund, from year to year.
(Ord. 081924, passed 8-19-24)
FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX
§ 34.40 ADOPTION.
   The City Council hereby adopts a Food and Beverage Tax of 1% of the gross
retail income received by a merchant from qualifying food or beverage
transactions.
(Ord. 091922J, passed 10-10-22)
§ 34.41 TAXABLE TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to IC § 6-9-44-4(a), the Food and Beverage Tax shall apply to
a transaction in which food or beverage is furnished, prepared or served:
      (1)   For consumption at a location or on equipment provided by a retail
merchant;
      (2)   In the city; and
      (3)   By a retail merchant for consideration.
   (B)   Transactions described in division (A)(1) include transactions in
which:
      (1)   Food or a beverage is served by a retail merchant off the
merchant’s premises;
      (2)   Food is sold in a heated state or is heated by a retail merchant;
      (3)   Food is made of two or more food ingredients, mixed or combined by
a retail merchant for sale as a single item (other than food that is only cut,
repackaged or pasteurized by the seller, and eggs, fish, meat, poultry and
foods containing these raw animal foods requiring cooking by the consumer as
recommended by the federal Food and Drug Administration in Chapter 3, Subpart
3-401.11 of its Food Code so as to prevent food-borne illnesses); or
      (4)   Food is sold with eating utensils provided by a retail merchant,
including plates, knives, forks, spoons, glasses, cups, napkins or straws (for
purposes of this division, a plate does not include a container or package used
to transport the food).
   (C)   The Food and Beverage Tax does not apply to the furnishing, preparing
or serving of food or a beverage in a transaction that is exempt, or to the
extent the transaction is exempt, from the state gross retail tax imposed by IC
6-2.5.
(Ord. 091922J, passed 10-10-22)
§ 34.42 ESTABLISHMENT OF FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX RECEIPTS FUND.
   The City Council hereby instructs the City Controller to establish a Food
and Beverage Tax Receipts Fund. The City Controller shall deposit in this Fund
all amounts received by the imposition of the Food and Beverage Tax. Money
earned from the investment of money in the fund becomes a part of the Fund.
(Ord. 091922J, passed 10-10-22)
§ 34.43 COLLECTION AND DISTRIBUTION OF TAX REVENUE.
   The Food and Beverage Tax shall be imposed, paid and collected in the same
manner that the state gross retail tax is imposed, paid and collected under IC
6-2.5. The amounts received from the imposition of the Food and Beverage Tax
shall be paid monthly by the State Treasurer to the City Controller upon
warrants issued by the auditor of the state.
(Ord. 091922J, passed 10-10-22)
§ 34.44 USE OF TAX REVENUE.
   (A)   Money in the Food and Beverage Tax Receipts Fund shall be used by the
city:
      (1)   To reduce the city’s property tax levy for a particular year at the
discretion of the city (but this use does not reduce the maximum permissible ad
valorem property tax levy under IC 6-1.1 -18.5 for the city); or
      (2)   For economic development purposes, including the pledge of money
under IC 5-1-14-4 for bonds, leases or other obligations for economic
development purposes.
   (B)   Revenue derived from the imposition of the Food and Beverage Tax may
be treated by the city as additional revenue for the purpose of fixing its
budget for the budget year in which the revenues are to be distributed to the
city.
(Ord. 091922J, passed 10-10-22)
§ 34.45 COVENANT.
   With respect to obligations for which a pledge has been made under IC § 6-9-
44-9, the general assembly covenants with the holders of the obligations that
IC §§ 6-9-44-1 et seq. will not be repealed or amended in a manner that will
adversely affect the imposition or collection of the Food and Beverage Tax if
the payment of any of the obligations is outstanding.
(Ord. 091922J, passed 10-10-22)
§ 34.46 EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX.
   In accordance with IC § 6-9-44-3(c), the Food and Beverage Tax shall apply
to transactions that occur after the last day of the month that succeeds the
month in which Ordinance 091922J is adopted. The city shall immediately send a
certified copy of Ordinance 091922J to the Indiana Department of Revenue.
Ordinance 091922J shall be of full force and effect from and upon its adoption
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 091922J, passed 10-10-22)
CHAPTER 35: CITY POLICIES
Section
Smoking in Public Places
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Smoking in public places prohibited
Bad Checks
   
35.15   Cost of collection on bad checks
Fees
   
35.30   Fee Schedule
Nepotism; Contracting with City
   
35.40   Nepotism policy adopted
   
35.41   Contracting with the city by a relative policy adopted
Investments
   
35.50   Investment policy
Public Records
   
35.60   Public records; commercial use
 
   
35.99   Penalty
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FISHERS MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS. Those structures owned, leased or otherwise
occupied by the city, including, but not limited to, all areas within said
buildings or any additions thereto.
   PERSON. Any man, woman, or child, regardless of age.
   PUBLIC PLACE(S). Any area to which the public is invited or in which the
public is permitted, and which is owned and operated by the city or any other
governmental entity, such as a park, playground, common area, school, or
library. PUBLIC PLACE(S) shall specifically not include public rights-of-way
except those that are on or across real estate owned by the city, such as the
City Municipal Complex and/or city parks.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. To ignite or cause to be ignited tobacco or a tobacco
product or derivative, which includes but is not limited to tobacco, or a
derivative thereof, e-cigarettes or other devices utilized for “vaping,” such
that the product or derivative emits a gas or cloud which is commonly
understood to be smoke, which may be or is intended to be inhaled by any
person.
   TOBACCO. Any of several plants belonging to the genus Nicotiana, of the
nightshade family, especially one of those species, as N. tabacum, whose leaves
are prepared for smoking or chewing or as snuff; the prepared leaves, as used
in cigarettes, cigars, and pipes, any product or products made from such
leaves; any of various similar plants of other genera.
(Ord. 110691C, passed 11-20-91; Am. Ord. 080706E, passed 9-5-06; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 011618A, passed 1-16-18)
§ 35.02 SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibition of smoking in public places. Smoking shall be prohibited
in any public place, including, but not limited to, the following areas:
      (1)   All school buildings and grounds, including athletic facilities
located within the Hamilton Southeastern Schools district, pursuant to the
policy of Hamilton Southeastern School Corporation;
      (2)   All other governmental buildings and grounds pursuant to policies
adopted by such governmental entities;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing prohibition, the Mayor, in his or her
discretion, may provide a location for smoking outside city-owned buildings and
on city-owned grounds that shall be a designated smoking area to be used only
by employees of the city during a permissible work break. Such a designated
location shall meet the conditions of division (B) below. An appropriate
container shall be provided by the city at such location in order to avoid the
accumulation of trash and debris and cigarette residue.
   (B)   Reasonable distance. Smoking shall occur at a reasonable distance
outside any area where smoking is prohibited to insure that tobacco smoke does
not enter the area through entrances, windows, ventilation systems, or any
other means. It shall be a violation for smoke to be detected in any area where
smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   Posting of signs - removing of paraphernalia.
      (1)   "No Smoking" signs or the international "No Smoking" symbol
(consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it) shall be clearly, sufficiently, and
conspicuously posted in every building or other area where smoking is
prohibited by this section, by the owner, operator, manager, or other person
having control of such building or other area.
      (2)   Every public place where smoking and tobacco is prohibited by this
section shall have posted at every entrance, a conspicuous sign clearly stating
that smoking and tobacco is prohibited.
      (3)   All ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from
any area where smoking is prohibited by this section, by the owner, operator,
manager, or other person having control of such area.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this section
may initiate enforcement with the department designated herein.
      (2)   Upon finding that any provision of this section has been violated,
the enforcement designee(s) shall issue a Notice of Violation (NOV) to the
person(s) in violation. The NOV shall be in writing and shall be served upon
the person(s) in violation by delivery in person or first class mail.
   (E)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, operates, or
otherwise controls the use of any premises subject to regulation under this
section to fail to comply with any of its provisions.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, manages, operates, or
otherwise controls the use of any premises subject to regulation under this
section to knowingly or willingly allow smoking to occur where prohibited by
this section. It is a defense to this section, if the foregoing persons or
their employees act in a reasonable and timely manner to personally inform the
violator of the prohibition and request that he/she refrain from smoking.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in an area where
smoking is prohibited by the provisions of this section.
   (F)   Public education. The city may engage in programs to explain and
clarify the purposes and requirements of this section to citizens affected by
it, and to guide owners, operators, and managers in their compliance with it.
Such programs may include publication of a brochure for affected businesses and
individuals explaining the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Other applicable laws. This section shall not be interpreted or
construed to permit smoking where it is otherwise restricted by other
applicable laws.
(Ord. 110691C, passed 11-20-91; Am. Ord. 080706E, passed 9-5-06; Am. Ord
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 011618A, passed 1-16-18; Am. Ord. 111918D,
passed 11-19-18) Penalty, see §
35.99
BAD CHECKS
§ 35.15 COST OF COLLECTION ON BAD CHECKS.
   The Controller is hereby authorized to impose a $25 fee against any party,
person, business organization or other entity that tenders a check in payment
of fees or costs to the city that is returned for any reason. This policy
applies to all departments and activities of the city that accepts checks in
satisfaction of the obligation to pay fees or charges.
(Ord. 052296B, passed 5-22-96; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
FEES
§ 35.30 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fees are hereby established to be imposed and collected by the
departments associated with the activities set forth hereafter. The city shall
impose an additional 3% administrative charge to any credit card transaction.
   (A)   Schedule I.
DEPARTMENT ACTIVITY/LICENSE/MATERIALS FEE
DEPARTMENT     ACTIVITY/LICENSE/MATERIALS                                    FEE
Administration Facility Rental/Damage Deposit                                $50.00
Department
All            Certification of Documents                                    $5.00
Departments
All            Digital Versatile Disc (DVD)                                  $7.00
Departments
All            Electronic media devices, except DVDs                         $1.00
Departments
All            Inspection, review, examine, search for, etc. of a public     No Cost
Departments    document
All            Per page copy charge, 8.5"x 11" black & white copy            $0.10
Departments
All            Per page copy charge 8.5"x 11" color copy                     $0.25
Departments
All            Photo (4x6 or 3x5 color)                                      $1.00
Departments
All            Return check charge                                           $25.00
Departments
All            Special requests                                              To be
Departments                                                                  determined
Police         Lifetime - Handgun License Application
Department     (A person who fails to properly apply for and obtain a         
               license for a handgun commits a Class B misdemeanor)
Police            •   Hunting and/or target practice - no current lic$50.00
Department
Police            •   Hunting and/or target practice - current valid $10.00e
Department
Police            •   Four-year hunting and/or target practice       $10.00
Department
Police            •   Personal protection - no current license       $50.00
Department
Police            •   Personal protection - current valid license    $40.00
Department
Police            •   Four-year personal protection                  $10.00
Department
Police         Handgun License Application                                    
Department
Police            •   Firearm dealer                                 Exempt
Department
Police            •   Retired police officer or retired corrections oExempt
Department
Police            •   Police Department vehicle inspection           $5.00
Department
Police         Fingerprinting services                                        
Department
Police            •   Non-residents                                   
Department
Police               •   First two fingerprint cards              $10.00
Department
Police               •   Each additional card                     $5.00
Department
Police            •   Residents                                      Exempt
Department
Police         Cassette tape                                                 $2.00
Department
Police         Computer disk                                                 $5.00
Department
Police         Video cassette tape                                           $3.00
Department
Police         Automobile accident reports                                   $12.00
Department
                                                                             $.62 per
Police         Video or law enforcement recording copy fee (per video) -     minute of
Department     Copy and Police Department review                             the video,
                                                                             up to $150
                                                                             $.92 per
Police         Video or law enforcement recording copy fee (per video) -     minute of
Department     Attorney review                                               the video,
                                                                             up to $150
Police                                                                       $219.78-
Department     Rapid DNA                                                     $234.06
                                                                             per run
Police                                                                       $181.97-
Department     M-Vac                                                         $1,058.50
                                                                             per run
Police                                                                       $83.06-
Department     VMD                                                           $619.04
                                                                             per run
Police                                                                       $73.10-
Department     DCS5                                                          $146.20
                                                                             per run
 
   (B)   Schedule II.
DEPARTMENT ACTIVITY/LICENSE/MATERIALS FEE
DEPARTMENT  ACTIVITY/LICENSE/MATERIALS                                                       FEE
Community   (A) Division of Planning and Zoning                                               
Development
               Inspections: $75 for 1 & 2 Family construction/projects and $100 for all
           other construction types and projects (i.e. Multi-Family, Commercial, Industrial  
            and Institutional)
              (1) Annexation                                                              
                 (a) Annexation - consensual or voluntary                             $400
                 (b) Annexation - Involuntary                                         $0
              (2) Zoning ordinance amendment (e.g., commitment change, PUD text amendment 
            etc.)
                                                                                             $1,200 + $50/
                                                                                             acre
                                                                                             (Additional
                                                                                             fees
                 (a) Rezone - UDO Zoning District                                     associated
                                                                                             with PUD
                                                                                             Committee
                                                                                             review may
                                                                                             apply)
                                                                                             $3,000 + $50/
                                                                                             acre
                                                                                             (Additional
                                                                                             fees
                 (b) Rezone - PUD                                                     associated
                                                                                             with PUD
                                                                                             Committee
                                                                                             review may
                                                                                             apply)
                 (c) PUD text amendment                                               $1,600 + $50/
                                                                                             acre
              (3) Primary Plat                                                            
                 (a) Single-unit and two-unit living                                  $1,200 + $50/
                                                                                             lot
                 (b) Non-residential and multi-unit                                   $1,500 + $50/
                                                                                             lot
                 (c) PUD                                                              $2,000 + $50/
                                                                                             lot
                 (d) Minor                                                            $500
                 (e) Vacation                                                         $1,000
                                                                                             $500 + $100/
                 (f) Waiver                                                           additional
                                                                                             waiver
              (4) Secondary Plat or Replat                                                
                 (a) Single-unit and two-unit living                                  $550 + $50/lot
                 (b) Non-residential and multi-unit                                   $700 + $50/lot
                 (c) PUD                                                              $1,500 + $50/
                                                                                             lot
                 (d) Minor                                                            $500
                 (e) Replat                                                           $500
              (5) Subdivision Improvement Permit                                          
                 (a) Residential                                                      $700 + $50/lot
                 (b) PUD                                                              $850 + $50/lot
                 (c) Minor SIP                                                        $500
              (6) Improvement Location Permit                                             
                 (a) Non-residential                                                  $1,600 + $50/
                                                                                             acre
                 (b) PUD                                                              $1,750 + $50/
                                                                                             acre
                 (c) Minor ILP                                                        $500
              (7) Preliminary Grading Permits (grading, erosion control and sedimentation$500
            plan shall be approved by the city)
               (8) Amendment to a recorded plat. Fees are required in accordance with the
           classifications in division (4) above, for the area affected, as determined by    
            the Community Development Department
              (9) Additional fees may be required for each review required to address ite 
            which were not addressed in the original staff reviews.
              (10) Variances                                                              
                 (a) Board of Zoning Appeals                                           
                    1. Development standards variance                               
                                                                                             $450 + $100/
                       a. Single-unit and two-unit living                       additional
                                                                                             standard
                                                                                             $650 + $100/
                       b. Non-residential and multi-unit                        additional
                                                                                             standard
                                                                                             $$650 + $100/
                    2. Use variance                                                additional
                                                                                             standard
                    3. Special exception                                           $650
                    4. Appeal of administrative determination                      $350
                    5. Hearing Officer                                              
                       a. Single-unit and two-unit living                       $200
                       b. Multi-unit living                                     $300
                       c. Non-residential                                       $400
                 (b) Plan Commission                                                   
                    1. Subdivision control waiver                                  $350
              (11) Temporary Use (no fee for not for profit and civic organizations)      
                 (a) Model homes/sales office                                         $600
                 (b) Construction trailers                                            $400
                 (c) All other temporary uses                                         $200/week
                 (d) Annual mixed use entertainment overlay                           $1,250
                 (e) Storage and rubbish containers (i.e. PODs, dumpsters, etc.)      $100
                             (f) Annual Mixed Use Entertainment Overlay Fe$1,250
              (12) Sign Permit (any inspection)                                           
                 (a)   1. Permanent - freestanding, wall, and projecting           $200
                    2. Permanent - other sign types                                $75
                                                                                             $25/week, up
                                                                                             to a maximum
                                                                                             of $150 (no
                 (b) Temporary (Banners, construction signs)                          fee for not
                                                                                             for profit,
                                                                                             civic
                                                                                             organizations)
                 (c) Vehicular Traffic Directional sign                               $60
                 (d) Special Event                                                    $75
                 (e) Grand Opening                                                    No fee
              (13) Zoning Determination Letter                                           $100
              (14) Committee Review Fee (PUD and Nickel Plate)                           $350
              (15) Change of Use                                                         $150
           (B) Inspections and Penalties                                                     
              (1) Single-unit and two-unit living                                         
                 (a) First inspection                                                 $100
                 (b) Re-inspection                                                    $150 per
                                                                                             inspection
              (2) Non-residential and multi-unit living                                   
                 (a) First inspection                                                 $150
                 (b) Re-inspection                                                    $200 per
                                                                                             inspection
              (3) Penalties                                                               
                 (a) Failure to call for required inspection                          $150 per
                                                                                             inspection
                 (b) Notice of violation - temporary sign                             $200/day
                 (c) Notice of violation - temporary use                              $500/day
                 (d) Notice of violation - all other                                  $300/day
                 (e) Continued to work under stop work order                          $500/day
 
   (C)   There is established the schedule of rates and fees for use in
connection with Engineering activities and functions. It is understood that
such rates and fees may be from time to time amended as warranted.
Fees paid with the Improvement Location Permit (ILP)/Subdivision Improvement
Permit (SIP)
**Contact the Engineering Department for payment submittal requirements
Fees paid with building permit
DEPARTMENT ACTIVITY/LICENSE/MATERIALS FEE
Fees paid with the Improvement Location Permit (ILP)/Subdivision Improvement Permit (SIP)
**Contact the Engineering Department for payment submittal requirements
Fees paid with building permit
DEPARTMENT   ACTIVITY/LICENSE/MATERIALS                                                             FEE
Engineering  ILP (Multi-Family, Commercial, Industrial and Institutional)                           $2,750
             SIP (1 & 2 Family)                                                                     $2,800
            Primary Plat or Detailed Development Plan                                              $600
            Residential Minor Primary Plat (5 lots or less)                                        $100
            Secondary Plat                                                                         $375
            Residential Minor Secondary Plat (3 lots or less)                                      $150
            Minor Improvement Location Permit                                                      $475
            Minor Subdivision Improvement Plan                                                     $475
            Above includes initial review plus 3 revisions. Additional reviews are subject to a     
             charge of $160 per revision.
            Digital Record Drawing Review                                                          $660
             Minor Digital Recording Drawing Review                                                 $330
            Above includes initial review plus 2 revisions. Additional reviews are subject to a     
             charge of $100 per revision.
Engineering  Re-inspection fee (all inspections)                                                    $110, $220,
                                                                                                    $550
            Work not inspected fee                                                                 $330
            Stop Work Order Re-Instatement Fee                                                     $440
            Work completed during a stop work order                                                $550 per day
            Lateral inspection (Residential)                                                       $85
            Lateral inspection (Commercial)                                                        $110
Engineering  Right-of-way (ROW) Activity Permit
            Filing fee                                                                             $55
                                                                                                    $2,000 per
             Surety requirements                                                                    location
                                                                                                    $10,000
                                                                                                    blanket bond
            Open cut maintenance bond                                                              $25,000 per
                                                                                                    location
            ROW boring                                                                             $55 +.80 per
                                                                                                    lineal foot
            ROW open cut: Allisonville Road and 96th/116th/126th Streets                           $550 + $110
                                                                                                    per day
                                                                                                    $330 + $5 per
             ROW open cut: All other streets   Surface 1 year old                                sq. ft.
               Surface 2 years old                                                              $220 + $5 per
                Surface 3 years old                                                              sq. ft.
                                                                                                    $110 + $5 per
                                                                                                    sq. ft.
            Stop work order re-instatement fee                                                     $440
             Work completed during a stop work order
            ROW fees do not apply for repairs to existing sidewalks. All applicable inspections    $550 per day
             still required.
            Aerial fee                                                                             $55 + .11 per
                                                                                                    lineal foot
            Bore pit                                                                               $55 per set
            Potholing/open cut                                                                     $110 + $5 per
                                                                                                    sq. ft.
            Reinspection fees                                                                      $110, $220,
                                                                                                    $550
                                                                                                    $200 per
                                                                                                    location,
            Performance bond                                                                       $10,000 for
                                                                                                    driveways,
                                                                                                    $25,000
                                                                                                    blanket
            Utility hit fine                                                                       $250
            ROW trenching                                                                          $55 + .80 per
                                                                                                    sq. ft.
Community    (B) Building Division                                                                   
Development
               Contractor registration - permit holder must be registered                       $100 annually
               Inspections: $75 for 1 & 2 Family construction and $100 for all other constructio 
             types (i.e. Multi-Family, Commercial, Industrial and Institutional)
               Same Day Inspections: $150 for 1 & 2 Family construction and $200 for all other   
             construction types (i.e. Multi-Family, Commercial, Industrial and Institutional)
                  New structure                                                               
All permits
include all
initial                                                                                             $850 + $.20/
required                                                                                            sq. ft. +
inspections                                                                                         Bridge, Park,
including             (i) One and two-family                                               and Road
driveway and (Fees include Utility Locates for individual lots)                                     Impact Fees
sidewalk                                                                                            (Add $75 for
inspections                                                                                         basement)
and
Certificates
of Occupancy
                        1. Additional code inspections or On-site Consultation         $75 each
                                                                                                    $1285 + $.17/
                                                                                                    sq. ft. + $160
                                                                                                    per unit +
                     (ii) Multi-family (more than two units attached)                     Bridge, Park,
                                                                                                    and Road
                                                                                                    Impact Fees
                                                                                                    (Add $100 for
                                                                                                    basement)
                        1. Additional code inspections or On-site Consultation         $100 each
                                                                                                    $1285 + $.17/
                                                                                                    sq. ft. +
                     (iii) Commercial, industrial, churches, schools, and public buildingsBridge and
                                                                                                    Road Impact
                                                                                                    Fees (Add $100
                                                                                                    for basement)
                        1. Additional code inspections or On-site Consultation         $100 each
                     (iv) Foundation only release                                         $400
                     (v) Tenant finish                                                    $785
                     (vi) Additions: addition to an existing structure                     
                        1. One and two-family residential                              $300 + $.10/
             (If 3 or more rooms, the fee is the same as a single-family dwelling)                  sq. ft.
                           a. Additional code inspections or On-site Consultation   $75 each
                                                                                                    $1085 fee +
                         2. Multi-family, industrial, commercial, churches, schools and $.17/sq. ft. +
            buildings                                                                              Bridge and
                                                                                                    Road Impact
                                                                                                    Fees
                           a. Additional code inspections or On-site Consultation   $100 each
                     (vii) Remodeling: remodeling, alteration or repair of an existing str ture,
             change of use
                        1. One and two-family                                          $150
                        2. Multi-family (more than two units attached)                 $225 + $60 per
                                                                                                    unit
                        3. Industrial, commercial, churches, schools and public buildin$650 + $.10/
                                                                                                    sq. ft.
                        4. Change of use                                               $100
                                                                                                    $75 for 1 & 2
                                                                                                    Family
                                                                                                    construction
                                                                                                    and $100 for
                                                                                                    all other
                     (viii) Accessory structures (any additional inspections)             construction
                                                                                                    types (i.e.
                                                                                                    Multi-Family,
                                                                                                    Commercial,
                                                                                                    Industrial and
                                                                                                    Institutional)
                                                                                                    $285 + $.10
                                                                                                    sq. ft.
Includes                                                                                            No fee, no
initial                                                                                             permit for
required                                                                                            portable
inspections              1. Multi-purpose buildings                                     multi- purpose
and                                                                                                 buildings 200
Certificates                                                                                        sq. ft. or
of                                                                                                  less
Occupancies                                                                                         (applicable
                                                                                                    standards
                                                                                                    apply)
                        2. Swimming pools                                               
                           (a) Portable less than 42" in depth                      No permit
                                                                                                    needed
                           (b) 1 & 2 Family                                         $250
                           (c) 1 & 2 Family Spas/hot tubs                           $75
                           (d) Multi-Family, Commercial/Public pool/spas/hot tubs   $585
                                                                                                    No permit
                        3. Decks Under 30" (deck surface to grade)                     (applicable
                                                                                                    standards
                                                                                                    apply)
                           30" or more from grade                                   $150
                           Screen porch                                             $225
                                                                                                    No permit
                        4. Fences                                                      (applicable
                                                                                                    standards
                                                                                                    apply)
                                                                                                    $75 for 1 & 2
                                                                                                    family
                                                                                                    inspections &
                                                                                                    $100 for all
                                                                                                    other
                     (ix) Reroof                                                          construction
                                                                                                    types (i.e.
                                                                                                    Multi-Family,
                                                                                                    Commercial,
                                                                                                    Industrial and
                                                                                                    Institutional)
                                                                                                    $250 + traffic
                      (x) Moving or changing location of a permanent structure             safety costs
                                                                                                    provided by
                                                                                                    the city
                                                                                                    $225
                      (xi) Demolition                                                      Residential;
                                                                                                    $325
                                                                                                    Commercial
                     (xii) Basement finish                                                $150
                                                                                                    $75
                     (xiii) Electrical, Plumbing and Mechanical permit                    Residential;
                                                                                                    $100
                                                                                                    Commercial
                (2) Re-submittal fees may apply in those cases where re-submittal is required of
            petitioner for not addressing items noted in the original staff reviews. Concerns       
             identified by staff after original review will not result in a resubmission fee.
               (3) Architectural, electrical, additional construction, and misc. inspections are 
             payable before inspection is made.
                                                                                                    $75 for each 1
                  (a) Residential                                                            & 2 family
                                                                                                    construction
                                                                                                    inspection
                                                                                                    $100 for each
                                                                                                    Multi-Family,
                  (b) Multi-Family, Commercial, Industrial and Institutional                 Commercial,
                                                                                                    Industrial and
                                                                                                    Institutional
                                                                                                    inspection
               (4) Conditional/Temporary Certificate of occupancy:                              $100
            (C) Permit Penalties                                                                    
                (1) Any person failing to call for a required inspection shall be assessed a
            penalty of $150 for each missed inspection payable before receiving re-inspection.      
             Additional permits shall not be issued to any individual, firm or corporation until
             all outstanding fees/fines are paid on the subject lot/parcel.
                (2) All construction or operations started or under way prior to obtaining the
            required permits, inspections and certificates of occupancy shall be assessed as        
             follows:
                                                                                                    Up to, but not
                  (a) All required permit types starting prior to issuance of permit         to exceed,
                                                                                                    double the
                                                                                                    filing fee
                  (b) Failed inspection re-inspection fee for same violation:                 
                                                                                                    $75 for 1 & 2
                                                                                                    family
                                                                                                    construction;
                                                                                                    $100 for all
                                                                                                    other
                     (i) First re-inspection                                              construction
                                                                                                    types (i.e.
                                                                                                    Multi-Family,
                                                                                                    Commercial,
                                                                                                    Industrial and
                                                                                                    Institutional)
                                                                                                    $150 for 1 & 2
                                                                                                    family
                                                                                                    construction;
                                                                                                    $200 for all
                                                                                                    other
                     (ii) Second re-inspection                                            construction
                                                                                                    types (i.e.
                                                                                                    Multi-Family,
                                                                                                    Commercial,
                                                                                                    Industrial and
                                                                                                    Institutional)
                     (iii) Third re-inspection and all subsequent re-inspections          $500
                                                                                                    Fee + late
                                                                                                    fee. The fee
                                                                                                    will be
                                                                                                    increased by
                                                                                                    $50/day as
                                                                                                    long as the
                                                                                                    violation
                                                                                                    continues, up
                                                                                                    to, but not to
                                                                                                  exceed $2,500.
                                                                                                    Starting 5
                                                                                                    business days
                                                                                                    after a Notice
                                                                                                    of Violation
                                                                                                    has been
                                                                                                    issued or sent
                                                                                                    by the
                                                                                                    Department of
                                                                                                    Development
               (3) Stop Work Order                                                               
                                                                                                    $400 (includes
                                                                                                    one re-
                                                                                                    inspection
                                                                                                    fee,
                                                                                                    additional
                                                                                                    inspections
                                                                                                    are $75 for 1
                                                                                                    & 2 family
                  (a) Stop Work Order Re-Instatement Fee                                     construction;
                                                                                                    $100 for all
                                                                                                    other
                                                                                                    construction
                                                                                                    types (i.e.
                                                                                                    Multi-Family,
                                                                                                    Commercial,
                                                                                                    Industrial and
                                                                                                    Institutional)
                                                                                                    each
                  (b) Work Completed during Stop Work Order                                  $500/day
                                                                                                    $500 for each
                                                                                                    1 & 2 family
                                                                                                    inspection
                                                                                                    missed and
                                                                                                    $750 for each
                  (c) Work Not Inspected Fee                                                 Multi-Family,
                                                                                                    Commercial,
                                                                                                    Industrial or
                                                                                                    Institutional
                                                                                                    inspection
                                                                                                    missed
 
   (D)   In accordance with IC 5-14-3-8, the fees to cover costs for
maintaining, upgrading, and enhancing an electronic map may be waived by the
city if the electronic map for which the fee is charged will be used for a
noncommercial purpose, including the following:
      (1)   Public agency program support;
      (2)   Non-profit activities;
      (3)   Journalism; or
      (4)   Academic research.
   (E)   There is established a schedule of fees for Department of Parks and
Recreation building and shelter rentals.
DEPARTMENT Parks and Recreation
ACTIVITY/LICENSE/MATERIALS      FEES
Resident   Capacity Sq. Footage Deposit Price Add’l Hour
DEPARTMENT              Parks and Recreation
ACTIVITY/LICENSE/MATERIALS                   FEES
Resident                Capacity Sq. Footage Deposit Price          Add’l Hour
BUILDING
Cumberland (includes    54       870         $100    $75            $20
shelter)
Roy G. Holland Memorial 76       1,148       $150    $106           $30
Park
Billericay Park         112      1,728       $200    $156           $40
SHELTER (4 and 8 hour rentals)
Brooks School Park      80       800         $80     $50(4)/$100(8)
Shelter
Harrison Thompson Park  80       812         $100    $50(4)/$100(8)
Shelter
Holland Park Playground 80       832         $100    $50(4)/$100(8)
Shelter
Holland Park Building   80       1,085       $100    $50(4)/$100(8)
Shelter
Billericay Park         80       2,020       $100    $50(4)/$100(8)
Playground Shelter
 
DEPARTMENT   Parks and Recreation
ACTIVITY/LICENSE/MATERIALS        FEES
Non-Resident Capacity Sq. Footage Deposit Price Add’l Hour
DEPARTMENT              Parks and Recreation
ACTIVITY/LICENSE/MATERIALS                   FEES
Non-Resident            Capacity Sq. Footage Deposit Price          Add’l Hour
BUILDING
Cumberland (includes    54       870         $100    $114           $40
shelter)
Roy G. Holland Memorial 76       1,148       $150    $159           $45
Park
Billericay Park         112      1,728       $200    $234           $60
SHELTER (4 and 8 hour rentals)
Brooks School Park      80       800         $80     $75(4)/$150(8)
Shelter
Harrison Thompson Park  80       812         $100    $75(4)/$150(8)
Shelter
Holland Park Playground 80       832         $100    $75(4)/$150(8)
Shelter
Holland Park Building   80       1,085       $100    $75(4)/$150(8)
Shelter
Billericay Park         80       2,020       $100    $75(4)/$150(8)
Playground Shelter
 
   (F)   There is established a schedule of fees for Department of Parks and
Recreation special events.
DEPARTMENT Parks and Recreation - Special Event Prices
           Price Deposit
DEPARTMENT Parks and Recreation - Special Event Prices
                                Price                  Deposit
Resident
          Parks (special events) $25                    $500
          Sports Fields          $150                   $500
Non-Resident
          Parks (special events) $25                    $500
          Sports Fields          $225                   $500
Lifeguards                       $19/hour per lifeguard
 
   (G)   There is established a schedule of fees for the Department of Public
Works for every special event which requires a special event permit, regardless
of whether the special event is held by a resident or non-resident. These fees
do not apply to city-sponsored events, city parks and recreation events, block
parties or sport events. There shall be a mandatory $50 payment for all special
event permits, which shall include: (i) 20 reflective cones, (ii) four A-frame
barricades, and labor associated with each. All additional supplies may be
purchased in accordance with the schedule below.
DEPARTMENT Public Works
   ACTIVITY/LICENSE/MATERIA   FEES
DEPARTMENT Public Works
   ACTIVITY/LICENSE/MATERIA   FEES
Reflective cones              $0.33 each/day
A-frame barricade             $1.00 each/day
Eight-foot Type 3 barricade   $2.80 each/day
Twelve-foot Type 3 barricade  $4.50 each/day
Construction barrel           $0.50 each/day
Water filled jersey walls     $85.00/day
Cattle fence                  $5.00 section/day
Arrow board                   $40.00 each/day
Message board                 $235.00 each/day
Light tower                   $115.00 each/day
Temporary signage             $20.00 each/day
Pickup dump truck             $57.94/hour
CDL truck                     $86.91/hour
Backhoe/loader                $106.86/hour
Skidsteer                     $45.00/hour
Mobilization/demobilization   $250.00
Labor during event            $19.29 - $42.00, depending on task and
                              availability
 
(Ord. 030600C, passed 3-20-00; Am. Res. R030303, passed 3-3-03; Am. Ord.
080403B, passed 9-15-03; Am. Ord. 020204, passed 3-2-04; Am. Ord. 100206B,
passed 12-18-06; Am. Ord. 121806B, passed 1-16-07; Am. Ord. 080607, passed 8-6-
07; Am. Ord. 121068, passed - -07; Am. Ord. 061608, passed 6-16-08; Am. Res.
R100603A, passed 10-6-03; Am. Ord. 090208, passed 12-1-08; Am. Ord. 122109,
passed 12-21-09; Am. Ord. 051611A, passed 5-16-11; Am. Ord. 060611, passed 6-
20-11; Am. Ord. 062011, passed 6-20-11; Am. Res. R040212D, passed 4-2-12; Am.
Ord. 060412, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 051313A, passed 6-3-13; Am. Ord. 111813,
passed 11-18-13; Am. Ord. 111813, passed 12-16-13; Am. Ord. 030314, passed 3-3-
14; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 051616G, passed 5-16-16; Am.
Ord. 032017B, passed 3-20-17; Am. Ord. 102218G, passed 10-22-18; Am. Ord.
121619D, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 101121B, passed 11-15-21; Am. Ord. 112023,
passed 11-20-23; Am. Ord. 081924A, passed 8-19-24; Am. Ord. 022425, passed 3-
17-25)
Statutory reference:
   Fees; copies, see IC 5-14-3-8
Cross reference:
   Health Department fees, see
Ch. 180
NEPOTISM; CONTRACTING WITH CITY
§ 35.40 NEPOTISM POLICY ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city nepotism policy is hereby established effective July 1, 2012,
by adopting the minimum requirements of IC 36-1-20.2, and including all future
supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to time, and
making them a part hereof as if fully set out herein. A copy of the nepotism
policy in effect July 1, 2012 and adopted hereby is attached to Res. No.
R061812B and is available for public inspection at the office of the Clerk
during normal business hours.
   (B)   The city finds that IC 36-1-20.2 specifically allows the city to adopt
requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and that are more detailed
as necessary.
   (C)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the city are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the nepotism policy
created under this section and demonstrating compliance with this same policy.
   (D)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy is a violation and may
result in the discipline, including termination, of an employee or a transfer
from the direct line of supervision or other curative action. An elected or
appointed official of the city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the
implementation, with the compliance and with mandated certifications of the
nepotism policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (E)   The policy created hereby is hereby directed to be implemented by any
of the following actions:
      (1)   Posting a copy of Res. No. R061812B in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the city where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of Res. No. R061812B to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of Res. No. R061812B;
or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the policy
established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials. Upon the taking of any of these actions, the nepotism policy is
deemed implemented by the city.
(Res. R061812B, passed 6-18-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 35.41 CONTRACTING WITH THE CITY BY A RELATIVE POLICY ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city contracting with a unit by a relative policy is hereby
established effective July 1, 2012, by adopting the minimum requirements of IC
36-1-21, and including all future supplements and amendments thereto which
become law from time to time, and making them a part hereof as if fully set out
herein. A copy of the contracting with city policy by a relative policy in
effect July 1, 2012 and adopted hereby is attached to Res. No. R061812B and is
available for public inspection at the office of the Clerk during normal
business hours.
   (B)   The city finds that IC 36-1-21 specifically allows the city to adopt
requirements that are “more stringent or detailed” and that are more detailed
as necessary.
   (C)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the city are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the contracting
with the city by a relative policy created under this section and demonstrating
compliance with this same policy.
   (D)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the contracting with the city by a relative
policy is a violation and may result in the discipline, including termination,
of an employee or a curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
city who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, with the
compliance and with mandated certifications of the contracting with the city by
a relative policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
   (E)   The policy created hereby is hereby directed to be implemented by any
of the following actions:
      (1)   Posting a copy of Res. No. R061812B in its entirety in at least one
of the locations in the city where it posts employer posters or other notices
to its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of Res. No. R061812B to its employees and elected
and appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of Res. No. R061812B;
or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the policy
established by this section to its employees and elected and appointed
officials. Upon the taking of any of these actions, the nepotism policy is
deemed implemented by the city.
(Res. R061812B, passed 6-18-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
INVESTMENTS
§ 35.50 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to provide investment
objectives and guidelines for the management of public funds, to safeguard
funds on behalf of the city, to assure the availability of funds when needed,
to encourage investments that earn a competitive rate of return, and, at all
times, to invest according to and consistent with IC 5-13-9 et seq., as
amended.
   (B)   Investing officer. The City Controller is hereby designated, for the
limited purpose of this section, as the city's investing officer and is hereby
authorized to invest city funds in authorized funds or any fund that state
statutes, as amended, may deem or consider an authorized fund prior to
expiration of this Investment Policy. For the avoidance of doubt, this Policy
shall be interpreted to authorize the City Controller to invest in any manner
allowed by the Act (as defined in division (D) below); and to the extent that
the Act allows greater investment authority than this section, the Act shall
control.
   (C)   Minimum rating. Authorized funds in which the city's investing officer
invests city funds shall have attained at least the minimum rating required by
state statutes, as amended.
   (D)   State statutes. All investments made by the city's investing officer
shall be made in accordance with IC 5-13 et seq. (the “Act”).
   (E)   Maturity date. The city's investing officer is hereby authorized to
make investments up to five years in maturity. This policy authorizes longer
term investments, defined as more than two years but not more than five years
after the date of purchase or entry into a repurchase agreement ("longer term
investments") pursuant to IC 5-13-9-5.6, as amended.
   (F)   Longer-term investments. The city's investing officer shall limit
total longer-term investments outstanding to not more than 25% of the city's
total portfolio, including balances in the city's transaction accounts.
However, an investment is authorized and remains legal even if a subsequent
decrease in the city's total portfolio of public funds invested, including
balances in transaction accounts, causes the percentage of longer-term
investments outstanding to exceed 25% of the city's total portfolio.
   (G)   Term of policy.
      (1)   This Investment Policy is and shall be effective upon adoption and
publication as required by IC 5-13-9-5.7 and shall expire on May 15, 2027 (the
"expiration date"). The power to make investments under this Investment Policy
terminates on the expiration date.
      (2)   Investments made in accordance with this Investment Policy that are
outstanding on or after the expiration date remain valid investments, and
nothing herein shall be construed to render such investments improper or
unlawful.
   (H)   Approval of investment officer. All investments made pursuant to this
Investment Policy must be approved by the investing officer.
   (I)   Internal control/external review.
      (1)   The City Controller is responsible for establishing and maintaining
policies and procedures to ensure that city assets are protected from loss,
theft, or misuse. Such policies and procedures shall be discussed with and
approved by the Mayor. The City Controller shall review all proposed
investments with the Mayor or his/her designee before investing to maintain
dual control, legal/ethical compliance, and to ensure both parties agree with
the proposed investment.
      (2)   Annually, the City Controller shall conduct an independent review
by an external auditor to ensure compliance with policies and procedures.
   (J)   Investment advisor. The investing officer is hereby authorized to
contract with a federally regulated investment advisor or other institutional
money manager to make investments under this Investment Policy.
   (K)   Certificates of deposit (CDs). Certificates of deposits, transaction
accounts, and other interest-bearing deposit accounts may be used for
investment of city funds pursuant to IC 5-13-9-5. The investment pool may be
invested in negotiable CDs provided that market yields on CDs exceed treasury
bills of comparable maturity and duration. All CD investments shall be insured
by the FDIC. However, for institutions rated Prime-1, there is no limitation of
total investment per institution. Total investment with a non-rated institution
is limited to the lessor of 10% of the institution's capital and 90 days
maximum maturity. In accordance with state law, this subchapter will expire two
years from the date this section is adopted.
   (L)   Diversification of investments. The city's investment portfolio shall
be diversified by institution, investment instruments and maturity schedule to
the extent practical and prudent. Maturities shall be time diversified over a
schedule determined by known liability to achieve target duration or weighted
average maturity for the portfolio based on the judgment of the City
Controller.
   (M)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. The Investment Officer and employees
involved in the investment process shall refrain from personal business
activity that could conflict with the proper execution and management of the
investment program, or which could impair their ability to make impartial
decisions. The Investment Officer and employees involved in the investment
process shall complete a conflict-of-interest form provided by the City
Attorney affirming that the Investment Officer or employee does not have a
pecuniary interest in the city's investments.
   (N)   Reporting.
      (1)   The City Controller shall maintain an inventory of all obligations
and securities and shall provide quarterly investments reports to the city's
Finance Committee detailing the following information: types of investments,
depository institutions, principal balances, maturity dates, rates of return,
purchases, and sales.
      (2)   The City Controller shall make an annual written report to the City
Council summarizing the city's investments during the previous calendar year.
The report must contain the name of each financial institution, government
agency or instrumentality, or other person with whom the city invested money
during the previous calendar year (IC 5-13-7). The City Council shall review
the report and review the city's overall investment policy.
      (3)   The City Controller or his or her designee shall review the
investment policy at least annually and propose such changes to safeguard funds
on behalf of the city, to assure the availability of funds when needed, and to
provide a competitive investment return.
(Ord. 091712A, passed 9-17-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
061515D, passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 021819D, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 051523A,
passed 5-15-23)
Cross-reference:
   Finance and revenue, see
Ch. 34
PUBLIC RECORDS
§ 35.60 PUBLIC RECORDS; COMMERCIAL USE.
   Any individual or entity receiving public records or information, pursuant
to a request made under IC 5-14-3-3(d), shall not use the records or
information for commercial purposes. This prohibition does not apply to the use
of such records in connection with the preparation or publication of news, for
nonprofit activities, or for academic research. A person who uses information
in a manner contrary to this section may be prohibited by the city from
obtaining a copy of any further data under IC 5-14-3-3(d).
(Ord. 022425E, passed 3-17-25)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   Citations for violation of §
35.02 may be issued by the Fishers Police Department, Fishers Fire Department,
the Building Commissioner, or the Department of Parks and Recreation. Each
violator of the restrictions and provisions of this chapter shall pay a fine to
the city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau in the sum and amount set forth in §
36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action may be filed by the
City Attorney’s office in the Fishers City Court.
(Ord. 110691C, passed 11-20-91; Am. Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18)
CHAPTER 36: ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
36.01   (Reserved)
   
36.02   Establishment of Bureau
   
36.03   Purpose
   
36.04   Contesting citations
   
36.05   Payment of fines
   
36.06   Duties
   
36.07   Procedures
   
36.08   Schedule of fines
   
36.09   Ordinance Violation Deferral Program
§ 36.01 (RESERVED).
§ 36.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF BUREAU.
   There is hereby established the Fishers Ordinance Violations Bureau. Such
Bureau shall be located in facilities designated by the Mayor and identified as
such. Personnel assigned to mange the operations of the Bureau shall be
designated by the Mayor, including, without limitation, the violations cleric
pursuant to IC 33-36-2-2.
(Ord. 050100A, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 36.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Ordinance Violations Bureau shall be to receive, during
regular business hours or, such other hours as may be established, fines and
fees imposed pursuant to ordinances of the city for all violations thereof
which are other than moving traffic violations, including, without limitation,
overtime parking, general parking violations and violations of building code.
Section 36.08 shall constitute the initial ordinances which may utilize the
Ordinance Violations Bureau as a means of resolving a citation. The schedule
may be amended from time to time by resolution of the City Council to add or
delete qualified ordinance violations.
(Ord. 050100A, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 36.04 CONTESTING CITATIONS.
   The Bureau is not a court. Any person or entity who has received a citation
and desires to contest said citation shall, pursuant to I C 33-36-3-3:
   (A)   Appear before the Violation Clerk and deny the violation or enter a
written denial; and
   (B)   Then seek review in a court having jurisdiction to hear such
violations and to enforce same.
(Ord. 050100A, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 36.05 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   Any person cited for an offense for which payment of a fine may be made to
the Bureau shall have the option of paying such fine within the time specified
in the citation issued by the city by appearing, admitting the violation and
paying the appropriate scheduled fine; or, upon a denial of the alleged
violation, the matter shall be transferred and docketed with a court having
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 050100A, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 36.06 DUTIES.
   The following duties are hereby imposed upon the Bureau in reference to
ordinance violations:
   (A)   It shall accept designated fines and issue receipts therefor;
   (B)   It shall keep an easily accessible record of all violations and
enforcements for which such fines are received, including the issuance of a
monthly report to the City Council and Mayor of all fines collected by the
Bureau and of the final disposition or present status of every case presented
to it during the preceding period. Such records shall be so maintained as to
show all types of violations and the totals of each. Such records shall be
public records.
(Ord. 050100A, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 36.07 PROCEDURES.
   The Bureau shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed by ordinances of
the city and state statutes, as amended.
(Ord. 050100A, passed 6-19-00; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 36.08 SCHEDULE OF FINES.
   (A)   Fines or fees imposed by reason of a violation of any of the following
ordinances shall be eligible for disposition at the Ordinance Violations Bureau
established within the city.
 
VIOLATION -                FIRST      SECOND      THIRD          SUBSEQUENT
FATS, OILS    CODE SECTION VIOLATION  VIOLATION   VIOLATION      VIOLATION
AND GREASES
No FOG                                Failure to  Failure to     Failure to
pretreatment              30 days to cure within cure within 45 cure within 60
device of     51.50        cure       30 days     days           days
non-working                           $100        $200           $500
device
Violation of                                                  
cleaning      51.50        $50        $100        $200           $500
schedule
Failure to
report                                                        
accidental    51.50        $100       $100        $100           $100
discharge
Failure to
provide logs,
files, and                                                    
other records 51.50        $50        $100        $200           $500
during an
inspection
Failure to                            Failure to  Failure to     Failure to
provide                   10 days to cure within cure within 20 cure within 30
quarterly     51.50        cure       10 days     days           days
report to the                         $50         $100           $200
Utility
Refusal of                                                    
inspection    51.50        $100       $200        $500           $500
 
VIOLATION - TRAFFIC CODE SECTION FINE IF NOT PAID AFTER 30 DAYS
VIOLATION - TRAFFIC      CODE SECTION         FINE     IF NOT PAID AFTER 30
                                                       DAYS
Parking obstructing      72.10                 $20.00 $40.00
traffic
Parking blocking an      72.11                  $20.0$40.00
alley
Parking in violation of
a no parking sign        72.12                $20.00   $40.00
adjacent to a school
Stopping, standing, or   72.13                $20.00   $40.00
parking violations
Violation of temporary   72.14                $20.00   $40.00
parking prohibition
Parking in fire lanes    72.15                $50.00   $100.00
Parking in handicap
parking space without    72.16                $50.00   $100.00
appropriate authority
General parking          72.20, 72.21, 72.22, $20.00   $40.00
violations               72.23
Parking violations       72.30, 72.31, 72.32,
within loading and       72.33, 72.34         $50.00   $100.00
unloading zones
Operation of bicycle in
roadway, multi-use path, 73.10                $20.00   $40.00
sidewalk and bicycle
lanes
 
VIOLATION - GENERAL REGULATIONSCODE SECTION FINE
VIOLATION - GENERAL REGULATIONS CODE SECTION FINE
Duties and responsibilities      91.03        Up to $500 per occurrence   
Restraint of animals             91.05        Up to $500 per occurrence   
Permanent identification         91.04        Up to $500 per occurrence   
Public nuisance animal           91.06        Up to $1500 per occurrence and
                                              the animal may be impounded
Feral cats                       91.06        Up to $500 per occurrence   
Dangerous animals                91.07        Up to $500 per occurrence   
Commercial animal establishments 91.09        Up to $500 per occurrence   
Disposition of dead animals      91.10        Up to $500 per occurrence   
Cruelty, neglect, abandonment    91.11        Up to $2500 per occurrence and
                                              the animal may be impounded
Vaccinations                     91.12        Up to $500 per occurrence
Vehicular collision              91.13        Up to $500 per occurrence
Interfering with Animal Control/ 91.14        Up to $2500 per occurrence
Humane Officer
Animal waste                     91.16        Up to $500 per occurrence
Animals in vehicles              91.18        Up to $500 per occurrence
Animal sacrifice                 91.19        Up to $2500 per occurrence
Sterilization of dogs and cats   91.20        Up to $2500 per occurrence
Service animals in public        91.22        Up to $500 per occurrence
buildings
 
VIOLATION - GENERAL REGULATIONS CODE SECTION FINE IF NOT PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS
PARK AND TRAIL REGULATIONS
VIOLATION - GENERAL REGULATIONS CODE SECTION FINE    IF NOT PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS
PARK AND TRAIL REGULATIONS
Litter in public places
Note: This is an existing
ordinance with a fine of not    93.02        $ 50.00 $100.00
less than $25 and not more than
$100
Park and trail rules            96.16        20.00   40.00
Vehicle restrictions            96.16        50.00   100.00
Hunting                         96.16        250.00  500.00
Fires                           96.16        100.00  200.00
Animals and plants              96.16        50.00   100.00
Games                           96.16        50.00   100.00
Vandalism                       96.16        100.00  200.00
Camping                         96.16        50.00   100.00
Alcohol                         96.16        50.00   100.00
Amusements                      96.16        50.00   100.00
Swimming                        96.16        50.00   100.00
Peddling and soliciting         96.16        50.00   100.00
Assembly                        96.16        50.00   100.00
Interference                    96.16        50.00   100.00
Reservations                    96.16        50.00   100.00
Fees                            96.16        50.00   100.00
Park hours                      96.16        20.00   40.00
Additional Penalty: Restitution, in addition to the fine, applies in all cases
when damage to city property occurs.
 
VIOLATION - BUSINESS REGULATIONS CODE SECTION FINE IF NOT PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS
VIOLATION - BUSINESS      CODE SECTION         FINE    IF NOT PAID WITHIN 30
REGULATIONS                                            DAYS
No alarm permit when      111.10               $ 50.00 $100.00
required
Fourth through seventh
false alarms in one year  111.30               100.00  200.00
(per occurrence)
Eighth and subsequent
false alarms in one year  111.30               250.00  500.00
(per occurrence)
                         Any other section in 50.00   100.00
                          Chapter 111
Noise ordinance           98.02                50.00   100.00
Fireworks ordinance       99.02                150.00  300.00
Building contractors      115.01 - 115.05      50.00   $100
 
 
VIOLATION - CURFEW  CODE SECTION    FIRST VIOLATION IF NOT PAID WITHIN 30
                                                    DAYS
Violation of curfew 131.01, 131.02,
ordinance           131.03, 131.04, $50.00          $100.00
                    131.05
 
 
VIOLATION - SOLICITATION  CODE SECTION           FINE    IF NOT PAID WITHIN 30
                                                         DAYS
Violation of solicitation 112.11, 112.12, 112.13 $100.00 $200.00
ordinance
 
 
                                                CODE                IF NOT PAID
VIOLATION - SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES            SECTION     FINE    WITHIN 30
                                                                    DAYS
Smoking on school grounds                       35.02(A)(1) $100.00 $200.00
Smoking in governmental buildings or on grounds 35.02(A)(2) 100.00  200.00
Failure of owner or operator to comply or to    35.02(E)(1)
allow smoking to occur in violation of § 35.02 , 35.02(E)  100.00  200.00
                                                (2)
 
 
                                               SECOND OFFENSE THIRD AND
VIOLATION - WATER  CODE SECTION  FIRST OFFENSE WITHIN A YEAR  SUBSEQUENT
                                                              OFFENSES
Violation of Water 52.01 through
Conservation       52.07         Warning       $500           $500
Ordinance
 
 
VIOLATION - TOWING FOR DISABLED CODE SECTION FIRST VIOLATION SECOND VIOLATION
VEHICLES
All sections                    118.99       $150            $250
 
 
VIOLATION - PUBLIC SAFETY CODE SECTION FIRST VIOLATION SECOND AND SUBSEQUENT
NUISANCE                                               VIOLATIONS
All sections              100.99       $250            $250
 
 
VIOLATION - LOITERING CODE SECTION VIOLATION
All sections          132.99       $250
 
   (B)   A person in violation may admit their violation and pay the civil
penalty in the amount and time set forth in §
36.08(A) to the city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau or may appear within 30 days
of the notice of violation and enter a written denial of the violation and
request a trial. If the person in violation: (1) timely denies the violation;
(2) fails to satisfy the penalty assessed within 30 days of having entered an
admission of violation; or (3) within 60 days of the date of the notice of
violation, fails to deny or admit the violation, the Ordinance Violations
Bureau Clerk shall report this fact to the City Attorney’s office, and the City
Attorney, or his or her designee, may file an ordinance enforcement action in
the Fishers City Court. If judgement is entered against a violator who has: (1)
failed to satisfy the penalty assessed after having entered an admission of
violation; or (2) failed to deny or admit the violation, the fine for the
violation shall be double the amount set forth in §
36.08(A) for tickets not paid within 30 days. If judgement is entered against a
violator who timely entered a written denial and request for trial, the fine
for the violation shall be the fine amount set forth in §
36.08(A).
   (C)   In the event that a violator has three judgements concerning a parking
violation that has not been paid before the deadline established by statute,
ordinance or court order, the Fishers Court Clerk may send a referral to the
Department of Motor Vehicle to suspend the registered owner’s registrations,
pursuant to I.C. 9-30-11-3, as amended.
(Ord. 050100A, passed 6-19-00; Am. Res. R091806A, passed 9-18-06; Am. Ord.
121806B, passed 1-16-07; Am. Ord. 121068, passed - -07; Am. Ord. 061608A,
passed 6-16-08; Am. Ord. 061608F, passed 6-16-08; Am. Ord. 060109A, passed 7-6-
09; Am. Ord. 080309A, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 020110A, passed 2-15-10; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 101915C, passed 10-19-15; Am. Ord. 082117,
passed 8-21-17; Am. Ord. 082117A, passed 8-21-17; Am. Ord. 101617H, passed 10-
16-17; Am. Ord. 052118E, passed 7-16-18; Am. Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18; Am.
Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23; Am. Ord.
051523C, passed 6-19-23; Am. Ord. 031824, passed 3-18-24)
§ 36.09 ORDINANCE VIOLATION DEFERRAL PROGRAM.
   (A)   The City Ordinance Violation Deferral Program ("Deferral Program") is
established. Eligible individuals who violate a qualifying city ordinance may
voluntarily enter the Deferral Program by written agreement with the
prosecuting attorney. The Deferral Program shall provide for the following:
      (1)   The defendant shall voluntarily agree to the terms and conditions
of the deferral agreement offered by the prosecuting attorney;
      (2)   The terms and conditions of the deferral agreement shall be in
writing and signed by the prosecuting attorney and the defendant;
      (3)   The defendant shall agree to pay to the Clerk the deferral fees
established by the prosecuting attorney;
      (4)   The defendant shall agree to pay all other applicable court fees
and costs to the Clerk;
      (5)   The executed deferral agreement shall be filed in the City Court;
      (6)   Upon the defendant's successful compliance with the terms and
conditions of the deferral agreement, the prosecuting attorney shall file a
motion with the City Court to dismiss the pending deferred action; and
      (7)   The City Court shall dismiss the pending deferred action against
the defendant, with prejudice, upon receipt of a motion to dismiss from the
prosecuting attorney.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney is hereby given full authority to administer
the Deferral Program, and to draft, prepare, and execute all documents and
forms necessary and desirable for the implementation of the Deferral Program.
The prosecuting attorney is also authorized and directed to establish the
amount of the initial Deferral Program user's fee and monthly user's fee, at a
level not to exceed the amounts authorized by law. The prosecuting attorney
shall also establish all eligibility and participation criteria for the
Deferral Program, and take any and all other lawful actions necessary to
implement this section and administer the Deferral Program.
   (C)   All fees from the Deferral Program shall be disbursed by the Clerk to
the Controller for deposit into the city's User Fee Fund on a monthly basis.
   (D)   Pursuant to IC 33-37-8-4, after deposited into the city's User Fee
Fund, disbursement of Deferral Program fees may be used for the following
purposes:
      (1)   Personnel expenses related to the operation of the program;
      (2)   Special training for a law enforcement officer;
      (3)   Electronic legal research;
      (4)   Office equipment, including computers, computer software,
communication devices, office machinery, furnishings, and office supplies;
      (5)   Any other purpose that benefits law enforcement and that is agreed
upon by the city fiscal body and the prosecuting attorney;
      (6)   Any other purpose permitted by IC 33-37-8-4(b).
   (E)   The Controller shall certify to the City Council and prosecuting
attorney an accounting of the amount of Deferral Program fees received by and
deposited into the User Fee Fund during the previous month. The prosecuting
attorney shall prepare and submit to the Controller claims for presentation to
the City Council for the payment of invoices detailing costs and expenses
incurred by the prosecuting attorney in administering the Deferral Program.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, in the event the
Deferral Program is discontinued by the city, and after all Deferral Program
costs and expenses have been paid in full, the Deferral Program fees collected
and on deposit in the User Fee Fund shall revert to the city's General Fund.
(Ord. 011712B, passed 2-6-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 37: CITY COURT
Section
   
37.01   City Court
   
37.02   Bailiff
§ 37.01 CITY COURT.
   (A)   In 2010, the Town of Fishers established a town court to be referred
to as The Town Court of Fishers. Beginning January 1,2015, the Town Court of
Fishers shall be known as and referred to as The City Court of Fishers.
   (B)   Pursuant to IC 33-35-1-3 and 33-35-2- 4, the judge that presides over
the City Court shall reside within the city's municipal boundaries and shall be
elected by the citizens of the city during the municipal primary and the
general municipal elections held every four years.
   (C)   The judge of the City Court shall serve for four years, beginning at
noon January 1 after election and continuing until a successor is elected and
qualified.
   (D)   Before beginning the duties of office, the City Judge must:
      (1)   Take and subscribe to the same oath of office as judges of circuit
courts; and
      (2)   Execute a bond, in the manner prescribed by IC 33-35 et seq. with a
surety approved by the Mayor, payable to the City of Fishers in the penal sum
of $5,000.
   (E)   The City Judge may adopt the rules necessary for conducting the
business of the Court and has all powers incident to a court of record as
provided for in state statutes.
   (F)   The City Judge may appoint a reputable practicing attorney to preside
in the Judge's absence as special judge.
   (G)   The City Judge shall provide a seal for the City Court which, on its
face, must state "City Court of Fishers, Indiana."
   (H)   Pursuant to IC 33-35-3-2, the City Clerk is the Clerk of the City
Court.
   (I)   The City Judge shall hold sessions of the City Court as the business
of the Court demands at a place provided and designated by the City Council.
   (J)   Pursuant to IC 36-4-7-2, the City Council shall prescribe the
compensation paid to the City Judge.
   (K)   The Clerk shall satisfy all duties of clerk as set forth in IC 33-35-
3-2, as amended.
   (L)   Rules of the City Court shall specify the manner in which process
issued from the City Court is served.
   (M)   During 2015, the City Court shall have exclusive jurisdiction of all
violations of city ordinances, misdemeanors and infractions, only. Beginning on
January 1,2016, the City Court shall exercise jurisdiction as provided in IC
33-35-2-4.
   (N)   All judgments, decrees, orders and proceedings of the City Court shall
have the same force as those of the circuit court, and, pursuant to IC 33-35-5-
9, an appeal taken from a judgment of the City Court may be taken to a Hamilton
County circuit, superior or probate court.
(Ord. 102810, passed 10-28-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 37.02 BAILIFF.
   Pursuant to IC 33-35-3-3:
   (A)   The bailiff of a city court must be a police officer of the city
assigned to the court by the Chief of Police. However, the Judge of the City
Court may appoint another person to serve as bailiff.
   (B)   The bailiff shall give bond payable to the city in the penal sum of
$1,000, with surety to be approved by the Mayor, conditioned on the faithful
and honest discharge of the bailiff's duties. The bond shall be filed in the
office of the Controller or Clerk.
   (C)   The bailiff shall have the authority and perform the duties set forth
in state statutes, including IC 33-35-3-3, as amended
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE, TRASH AND REFUSE
      
51.   SEWER USE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE, TRASH AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   License required
   
50.03   Application for license; issuance
   
50.04   Restrictions
   
50.05   Exemptions
   
50.06   Remedies
   
50.07   Clean up required
   
50.08   Fees for trash, solid waste and recycling collection and disposal for
residiential units within the city
 
   
50.99   Penalties
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm, partnership or corporation engaged in the
business of refuse, garbage, trash or recycling collection and disposal from
property on a regular basis with a set schedule and route.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A room or series of rooms located within a building or
mobile home and forming a single inhabitable unit with facilities, which are
used, or are intended to be used for living, cooking, eating, and sleeping,
including:
      (1)   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A residential dwelling unit
separated from any other dwelling unit by open space, and designed for
occupancy for one person or family.
      (2)   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A building or related group of
buildings not to exceed four units located on the same lot, tract or parcel of
real estate, with each dwelling unit being completely independent of the other.
      (3)   TOWNHOUSE. Any multi-story single family residential unit sharing
one or more common walls with another similar residential unit.
(Ord. 09-02-87, passed 10-7-87; Am. Ord. 041524B, passed 6-17-24)
§ 50.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of collecting garbage, refuse, trash, or recycling within the city,
without first obtaining a license as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 09-02-87, passed 10-7-87; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
041524B, passed 6-17-24) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Refuse, garbage, trash, or recycling collection.
      (1)   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation desiring to operate as
a contractor as defined by this chapter shall first apply for and obtain a
license from the Department of Public Works to do so. Such application shall
include the following:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the principal office
of the contractor;
         (b)   The proposed day(s) of the week on which the contractor is
scheduled to operate in the city;
         (c)   A map of the city showing the proposed route of collection;
         (d)   A bond in the penal sum of $ 10,000 executed by a surety
company, the purpose of which is to reimburse the city in the event of city
personnel being required to clean street, gutters, or other public property
following the contractor's activity in the city or a leak pursuant to § 50.07.
This bond shall not be construed so as to indemnify the contractor from any
damage or liability.
      (2)   Upon the filing of such application and bond, a license may be
issued by the Department of Public Works to such applicant to operate for a
period of not more than one year from the date of issuance, and all licenses
shall expire on December 31 of each calendar year. Contractors desiring to
reapply for a license for a new calendar year are encouraged to apply prior to
December 1 of the preceding year. Each application shall be accompanied by a
filing fee of $200, provided that the filing fee may be reduced to $100 for
each application submitted after July 1 of a calendar year.
      (3)   All licenses shall be subject to §
50.03(B) and the city’s authority to enter into a contract for the exclusive
provisions or residential refuse, garbage, trash, or recycling collection and
disposal within the city. During any period during which the city has
contracted with any person, firm, or corporation to be the exclusive provider
for residential refuse, garbage, trash, or recycling collection and disposal
within the city, no license may be issued or renewed to any person, firm,
partnership, or corporation for the collection of residential solid waste, yard
waste, and recycling within the city.
   (B)   Residential unit refuse, garbage, trash, or recycling collection.
      (1)   The city may, pursuant to applicable law and authority, enter into
a contract with a person, firm, or corporation as an exclusive provider for
residential unit refuse, garbage, trash, or recycling collection services for
residences within the city’s municipal boundaries.
      (2)   If the city enters into a contract with a person, firm, or
corporation to be the exclusive provider for residential unit refuse, garbage,
trash, or recycling collection services:
         (a)   Other refuse, garbage, trash, or recycling collection service
providers or contractors may not provide residential refuse, garbage, trash, or
recycling collection and disposal within the City’s municipal boundaries;
         (b)   Other refuse, garbage, trash, or recycling collection service
providers or contractors may not charge fees for cancellation of services by
city’s residents or container/can/cart return/pickup. This division (B)(2)(b)
does not apply if all of the following conditions are met: (i) prior to the
adoption of this division the contractor held a valid existing permit, (ii)
prior to the adoption of this division the contractor had a valid written
contract with the residential customer clearly requiring the payment of the
applicable cancellation or return/pickup fee, and (iii) the contractor did not
submit a bid or proposal to the city to be the exclusive provider of refuse,
garbage, trash or recycling collection within the city.
(Ord. 09-02-87, passed 10-7-87; Am. Ord. 011806, passed 3-20-06; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 041524B, passed 6-17-24) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in the
business of collecting garbage, refuse or trash, within the city between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. in residentially zoned areas or in commercially
zoned
areas whose trash or recycling containers/cans/carts are within 600 feet of
property used for residential purposes.
(Ord. 011806, passed 3-20-06; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
041524B, passed 6-17-24)
§ 50.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to employees of the
city engaged in collection efforts directly related to their employment,
persons hauling trash, refuse or debris on a one-time unscheduled basis, or
private citizens engaged in typical residential trash removal activity.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to construction
activities within streets and rights-of-way within the corporate limits of the
city which may be authorized and regulated by other applicable ordinances of
the city.
(Ord. 09-02-87, passed 10-7-87; Am. Ord. 011806, passed 3-20-06; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 041524B, passed 6-17-24)
§ 50.06 REMEDIES.
   Upon the determination by the Director of the Department of Public Works
that a violation has occurred, the responsible contractor shall be notified via
telephone with a certified letter to follow as soon as practicable. The
contractor shall have 24 hours from earliest notice in which to correct the
violation. If the conditions have not been corrected within that time, the city
may take corrective action at the contractor's expense. Upon receipt of a third
violation issued to a contractor, the contractor shall make written notice to
all of their customers, within the city corporate limits, making them aware
that another contractor licensed with the city may need to be contacted and
contracted for said services. In the event of a third violation within any 12-
month period, the Mayor or his or her designee shall revoke said contractor’s
license. License revocation shall be effective 30 days from the date of the
mailing of said letter to the contractor. Upon notice of revocation of license,
the contractor shall contact by mail all customers within the limits of the
city notifying all customers of the pending revocation of license and placing
them on notice that customers may be required to obtain alternative waste
removal services. Contractor may petition for reinstatement of his or her
license within the 30-day period before the effective date of license
revocation, which reinstatement requires approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 09-02-87, passed 10-7-87; Am. Ord. 100798B, passed 10-21-98; Am. Ord.
011806, passed 3-20-06; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 041524B,
passed 6-17-24)
§ 50.07 CLEAN UP REQUIRED.
   All trash collection trucks and equipment shall be well maintained and in
proper working order. All leaks onto a roadway including, but not limited to
hydraulic fluid, must be remediated within 48 hours of the leak. Any standing
fluid on the roadway must be absorbed and any residual hydraulic fluid on the
roadway surface must be cleaned. Any cleaning methods must prevent fluid leaks
and cleaning fluids from entering stormwater drains.
(Ord. 041524B, passed 6-17-24)
§ 50.08 FEES FOR TRASH, SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL FOR
RESIDENTIAL UNITS WITHIN THE CITY.
   (A)   (1)   Beginning January 1, 2025, until December 31, 2034, each
residential unit shall pay a monthly trash, solid waste and recycling
collection fee as follows:
Year Monthly Rate
Year Monthly Rate
2025 $16.39
2026 $17.33
2027 $18.32
2028 $19.38
2029 $20.51
2030 $21.72
2031 $23.00
2032 $24.36
2033 $25.82
2034 $26.89
 
      (2)   The new rate shall become effective on January 1 of each year.
   (B)   The fees payable under this section for any residential unit shall be
billed to the person or entitty which receives the wastewater bill for the
service to the residential unit. If the monthly wastewater bill is for service
for more than one residential unit, the monthly fee shall equal the number of
residential units included in the wastewater bill, times the monthly fee
established by this section.
   (C)   The owner of any parcel of real estate containing a residential unit
which does not receive wastewater services from the city, but receives trash
collection services from the city, shall be billed a monthly trash fee pursuant
to this section, and any unpaid fees for the trash collection service shall be
subject to the same remedies against the owner of the real estate, or recipient
of the bill, which are included in division (F) of this section.
   (D)   Payments and partial payments shall be applied in the following order:
(i) late fees, penalties and interest due as a result of delinquent payment of
wastewater, stormwater or trash bills; (ii) outstanding or due wastewater fees;
(iii) outstanding or due stormwater fees, then (iv) outstanding or due trash
collection fees.
   (E)   The rate imposed by this section shall be in addition to the rates
charged by the city to operate its municipal sewage works pursuant to I.C. §
36-9-23-1 et seq., and any ordinance establishing rates for the collection and
treatment of wastewater by the city’s wastewater utility.
   (F)   All unpaid fees imposed by this section are subject to the same late
fees, penalties, and interest authorized for delinquent sewer bills and may be
collected by any lawful means including the filing of liens as authorized by
I.C. § 36-9-23.
   (G)   The City Controller shall cause the monthly charges collected pursuant
to this section to be paid into a segregated fund (the Trash Collection Fund).
The Trash Collection Fund shall be separated from the balance of the revenues
of the wastewater utility, and to be used solely for the purpose of paying the
city's trash collection costs.
(Ord. 090924D, passed 10-7-24) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTIES.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined in an
amount of $200 for the first offense; $500 for the second offense; and, $1,000
for the third offense and the contractor’s license may be revoked, and
reinstatement of said license shall require the approval of the City Council. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 09-02-87, passed 10-7-87; Am. Ord. 011806, passed 3-20-06; Am. Res.
R090208A, passed 9-2-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 041524B,
passed 6-17-24)
 
Map referenced in §
50.04 regarding restricted areas:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72b44e6e2376a5afa76c1d0f31d070e90e0aa10d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7083.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 51: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Depositing objectionable waste prohibited
   
51.03   Discharge of wastewater or other polluted waters to natural outlets
   
51.04   Privies, septic tanks and other facilities
   
51.05   Owner's responsibility to install suitable toilet facilities
   
51.06   Destroying or tampering with wastewater structures or equipment
   
51.07   Right of entry for purpose of inspection; confidential information;
indemnification
   
51.08   Establishing and regulating waste disposal system in certain areas
located within four miles of corporate boundaries
Private Wastewater Disposal System
   
51.15   Connecting building sewer to private wastewater disposal system
   
51.16   Written permit to be obtained
   
51.17   Compliance with State Department of Environmental Management
Building Sewer and Connections
   
51.25   Connecting building sewer to public sewer
   
51.26   Use of old building sewers with new buildings
   
51.27   Size, slope and alignment; conformance to other applicable rules and
regulations
   
51.28   Gravity flow to public sewer; lifted by approved means
   
51.29   Sources of surface runoff or groundwater to public sanitary sewer
prohibited
   
51.30   Excavations
   
51.31   Inspection of connection to public sewer
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.40   Discharge of stormwater and other unpolluted drainage
   
51.40.5   Prior approval of certain wastes
   
51.41   Prohibited discharges to public sewers
   
51.42   Discharge of certain wastes restricted
   
51.43   Pretreatment, equalization of waste flows
   
51.44   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.45   Pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
51.46   Installation of suitable sampling and measurement appurtenances
   
51.47   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
51.48   User of sewer services to provide information
   
51.49   Industrial wastes; special agreement
   
51.50   Fats, oils and greases management program
   
51.51   Enforcement
Contribution Requirements for Developers and New Users of Sewage Facilities
   
51.55   Definitions
   
51.56   Expansion and connection policy
   
51.57   (Reserved)
   
51.58   (Reserved)
   
51.59   Prior agreements of city
   
51.60   Protection of bond holders of sewage works
   
51.61   Amendments
Terminating Water Service to Delinquent Sewer Users
   
51.65   Termination of service procedures
   
51.66   Termination of service not exclusive remedy
   
51.67   Procedure
Rates and Charges
   
51.70   Schedule of user charges
   
51.71   (Reserved)
   
51.72   Billing of service charges
   
51.73   Fee for preparing and filing liens
Exemptions From Sewer Billing
   
51.80   Water lines used strictly for irrigation purposes exempt from sewer
billing
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act,
as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251, et seq.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the POTW (including
the collection system leading to the water pollution control plant) from any
non-domestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INTERFERENCE. An indirect discharge that, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, both: (1) inhibits or disrupts the
POTW, its treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes, use or
disposal; and (2) therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent State or local regulations): Section 405 of the
Clean Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (including title II, more
commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and
including State regulations contained in any State sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries
Act.
   MAY. Is permissible. (See definition of SHALL below).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the water pollution control plant into
waters of the United States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a
violation of any requirement of the water pollution control plant's NPDES
permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation).
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of seven and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A sewage treatment works as defined
by the Act, owned by the City of Fishers. This definition includes any devices
and systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It
also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances if they convey wastewater to
the City of Fishers’ water pollution control plant. The term also means the
municipality which has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the
discharges from such a POTW.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. Is mandatory. (See definition of MAY above).
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN or STORM SEWER. A drain or sewer for conveying water,
groundwater, sub-surface water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The superintendent of wastewater facilities, and/or of
wastewater treatment works, and/or of water pollution control of the city, or
its authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in “Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater” and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER. Any domestic or non-domestic discharger of wastewater which introduces
pollutants to the city’s POTW.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with waste treatment plants or wastewater treatment plant or water
pollution control plant.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.02 DEPOSITING OBJECTIONABLE WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 PRIVIES, SEPTIC TANKS AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY TO INSTALL SUITABLE TOILET FACILITIES.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, is
hereby required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after the
date of the official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within
100 feet (30 and one-half meters) of the property line.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
011325, passed 2-24-25 Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 DESTROYING OR TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER STRUCTURES OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating
this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF INSPECTION; CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION;
INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. The industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
city employees and the city shall indemnify the company against a loss or
damage to its property by the city employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
51.41.
   (D)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.08 ESTABLISHING AND REGULATING WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEM IN CERTAIN AREAS
LOCATED WITHIN FOUR MILES OF CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   No sewer utility shall commence collection, processing or disposition
of waste substances and domestic or sanitary sewage (hereinafter referred to as
“sewer service”) within the corporate boundaries of the city or within an area
which is within four miles of the corporate boundaries of the city in the area
identified as the Fishers Sewer Planning Area, unless such sewer utility shall
first obtain a permit, contract, license or franchise (hereinafter referred to
as “permit”) from the city, authorizing the sewer service, and a finding by the
City Council that the public convenience and necessity require sewer service by
the sewer utility, and defining specifically the area to be covered by the
permit, such finding to be made after a public hearing has been held before
said City Council pursuant to not less than ten days published notice in
accordance with the provisions of IC 5-3-1.
   (B)   At the public hearing pursuant to division (A), an applicant for a
permit to provide sewer service pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall
demonstrate to the City Council by the presentation of competent evidence that
it has met the following criteria:
      (1)   That it has the financial ability to install, commence and maintain
said proposed service;
      (2)   That the plans and specifications for the sewer interceptor system
to be constructed and installed shall have received the written approval of the
city's Consulting Engineer and the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management prior to the commencement of construction;
      (3)   That a contract will have been executed by the applicant and
submitted to the city for its consideration and acceptance that will obligate
the applicant upon the issuance of the permit to pay to the city the city's
rates and charges as by ordinance provided for the transmission of sanitary
sewage to the city for treatment at the city's treatment facility;
      (4)   That the applicant shall establish that it has the lawful power and
authority to apply for said permit and to operate said proposed service. The
permit shall state that before commencing operations and serving customers, the
sewer utility shall file its rates and charges with the Indiana Utility
Regulatory Commission for approval by the Commission. The city also recognizes
that the applicant may derive its authority to apply for such permit from other
express statutory authority, such as a municipal utility, a conservancy
district or a regional waste district;
      (5)   The permit shall state that before commencing construction or
operations and serving customers, the sewer utility shall apply for and receive
all of the necessary federal and/or state and/or county regulatory permits and
licenses necessary to operate the sewer service in the area identified as the
Fishers Sewer Planning Area. It is the intention of the city to recognize the
jurisdiction of the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission to fix the price to
be charged for the service to be rendered by the applicant notwithstanding the
provisions of IC 36-9-2-16 in the case of a regulated utility. In the event
that a municipal utility, conservancy district, or regional waste district
obtains the necessary federal and state licenses and permits, it is the
intention of the city to recognize the jurisdiction of the permitting agency,
and to consider such entity to have standing to apply for a permit from the
city.
   (C)   After the city issues a sewer service permit pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, no other sewer utility shall commence sewer service
in the permitted area without itself first obtaining a permit to do so from the
city in accordance with the criteria set out above. In addition, the city may
issue additional permits within the same permitted area only if the following
additional criteria are satisfied:
      (1)   The sewer utility with an existing permit is not furnishing
reasonably adequate sewer service and is not willing or capable of furnishing
sewer service in the area for which an additional permit is sought;
      (2)   A period of at least 24 months has expired from the date of
issuance of the existing permit;
      (3)   Issuance of the additional permit will not impair the ability of
the existing sewer utility to continue to furnish existing sewer service within
the permitted area;
      (4)   Public convenience and necessity as determined by the city require
the issuance of an additional permit; and
      (5)   The sewer utility applying for an additional permit obtains
approval from the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Public
Service Commission Act, IC 8-1-2-1 and following, or otherwise meets the
statutory requirements for lawful operation including a discharge permit from
the Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to revoke any sewer service permit which
it may grant, in whole or in part, for any of the following grounds as
determined by the City Council acting in its legislative capacity at any
regular meeting of said City Council:
      (1)   Failure of the sewer utility holding such sewer service permit to
furnish reasonably adequate sewer service within the area defined in the
permit;
      (2)   Failure of the sewer utility holding the sewer service permit to
comply with any term, condition or limitation of such permit;
      (3)   Any act undertaken by the Indiana Department of Environmental
Management or the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission which in any way limits
or restricts the ability of the sewer utility to act upon the authority of said
state bodies.
   (E)   In the absence of a clear and convincing health related reason, the
City Council resolves that no cross county sewer service should be permitted
that would allow for the sanitary sewage treatment of areas located within Fall
Creek Township of Hamilton County by any provider of sanitary sewage treatment
services other than the City of Fishers.
   (F)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances currently in effect within the
city, which are in conflict, directly or indirectly, with the provisions of
this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 3-2-90, passed 3-2-90; Am. Res. R090302A, passed 9-3-02; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM
§ 51.15 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER TO PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.05, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.16 WRITTEN PERMIT TO BE OBTAINED.
   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal system
the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit from the Hamilton County
Health Department.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.17 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Environmental
Management of the state.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.25 CONNECTING BUILDING SEWER TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF “Manual of Practice No. 9.” All such
connections shall be made gas-tight and watertight and verified by proper
testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.26 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS WITH NEW BUILDINGS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.27 SIZE, SLOPE AND ALIGNMENT; CONFORMANCE TO OTHER APPLICABLE RULES AND
REGULATIONS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.28 GRAVITY FLOW TO PUBLIC SEWER; LIFTED BY APPROVED MEANS.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.29 SOURCES OF SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER TO PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER
PROHIBITED.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer unless such connection is approved by the Superintendent
for purposes of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.30 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Street,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.31 INSPECTION OF CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his representative.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.40 DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
waters such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or
cooling water to any sewer; except stormwater runoff from limited areas, which
stormwater may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer by
permission of the Superintendent.
   (B)   Stormwater other than that exempted under division (A) above, and all
other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the Superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.40.5 PRIOR APPROVAL FOR CERTAIN WASTES.
   The Superintendent shall have the authority to deny or condition new or
increased contributions of pollutants, or changes in the nature of pollutants,
to the POTW by users or indirect dischargers where such contributions do not
meet applicable pretreatment standards and requirements or where such
contributions would cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit.
(Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.41 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES TO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW any
pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or interference. These
general prohibitions apply to all users of and indirect discharges to the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements. Except
as hereinbefore provided, no user or indirect discharger shall discharge or
cause or permit to be discharged into the public sewer any of the following
described substances, wastes or waters:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas; including waste streams with a closed cup
flashpoint of less than 140° F (60° C) using test methods in 40 CFR 261.21.
   (B)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the wastewater works
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, et seq.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (E)   A pollutant from any source of nondomestic wastewaters that could pass
through or cause interference with the operation or performance of the POTW.
   (F)   A pollutant, including an oxygen demanding pollutant (such as
biochemical oxygen demand) released in a discharge at a flow rate or pollutant
concentration that could cause interference in the POTW.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.42 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WASTES RESTRICTED.
   The following described substances, materials, waters or waste shall be
limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established in
the regulations below if, in his opinion, such more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his opinion as to the
acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as
the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials or construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment
process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of
treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent
factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
   (A)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 104° F (40° C);
   (B)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of petroleum
oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral oil origin;
   (C)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease;
   (D)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders may
be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the
premises or when served by caterers;
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the Superintendent for such materials;
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent;
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
   (H)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a “slug”
as defined herein;
   (I)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters;
   (J)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious
to structures and treatment processes;
   (K)   A trucked or hauled pollutant, except with the permission of the POTW;
and when introduced to the POTW at a discharge point designated by the POTW.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.43 PRETREATMENT, EQUALIZATION OF WASTE FLOWS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
51.42, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious
effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent may do the following:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of §
51.47.
   (B)   When considering the above alternatives, the Superintendent shall give
consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the discharger. If
the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the
design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.44 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing floatable grease in excessive amounts as specified in §
51.42(C), or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients: except
that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by
the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors the owner
(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate
means of the captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and
means of disposal which are subject to review by the Superintendent. Any
removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner(s)
personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal firms.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.45 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner(s) at his expense.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.46 INSTALLATION OF SUITABLE SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT APPURTENANCES.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure
together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such
structure, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent. The
structure shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be
maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.47 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association,
sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.48 USER OF SEWER SERVICES TO PROVIDE INFORMATION.
   The Superintendent may require a user of sewer services to provide
information needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These
requirements may include:
   (A)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
   (B)   Chemical analyses of wastewater;
   (C)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
   (D)   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent or
other materials important to sewer use control;
   (E)   A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
   (F)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities;
   (G)   Details of systems to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.49 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; SPECIAL AGREEMENT.
   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment.
(Ord. 061588B, passed 7-20-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.50 FATS, OILS AND GREASES MANAGEMENT PROGRAM.
   This Fats, Oils and Grease ("FOG") Policy (hereinafter referred to as
"policy") addresses the policies and procedures applicable to food service
facilities for management of fats, oils and grease discharge to the city's
wastewater conveyance and treatment facilities.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Fats, oils and grease (FOG) are restricted wastes per §
51.42(C) of this code due to their potential to interfere with conveyance pipes
and pumping facilities, and treatment processes, and are therefore limited in
discharge. FOG pretreatment devices such as grease and oil interceptors, traps
and separators are required to provide the necessary level of control per §
51.44 of this code. The purpose of this policy is to provide standards for
requiring the installation of FOG pretreatment devices, maintenance, data
management, reporting and compliance.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the content clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C, expressed in milligrams per liter, as described in the
latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater."
      FOG (FATS, OILS, AND GREASE.) All fats, oils and grease, petroleum
products and by-products. Fats, oils and grease as found in food service
facilities including, but not limited to, any substance such as vegetable or
animal product that is used in, or is a by-product of, the cooking or food
preparation process or the cleaning thereof, and that turns or may turn viscous
or solidified with a change in temperature or other conditions. Petroleum,
oils, and grease as found in auto or marine service facilities including, but
not limited to, any substance such as petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting
oil or products of mineral oil origin that is used in, or is a by-product of an
automotive/marine process. These substances are detectable and measurable using
analytical test procedure established in 40 CFR 136, as amended.
      FOG FACILITY. Any non-residential sewer user or combination of sewer
users utilizing the same pretreatment device which uses or generates FOG.
      FOG MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. The program that is supported by this policy, as
amended.
      FOG PRETREATMENT DEVICE. Includes oil-water separators, grease traps and
grease interceptors.
      GREASE INTERCEPTOR. An outdoor, watertight receptacle utilized to
intercept, collect, and restrict the passage of grease and food particles into
the sanitary sewer system to which the receptacle is directly or indirectly
connected, and to separate and retain grease and food particles from the
wastewater discharged by a facility. An interceptor shall have a capacity of at
least 1,000 gallons to serve one or more fixtures and shall be located outside
the building.
      GREASE TRAP. An indoor, watertight receptacle utilized to intercept,
collect and restrict the passage of grease and food particles into the sanitary
sewer system to which the receptacle is directly or indirectly connected, and
to separate and retain grease and food particles from the wastewater discharged
by a facility.
      MODIFICATION REQUEST FORM. A form provided by the utility for the user to
complete in order to be considered for a modified cleaning schedule or
exemption releasing the user from the need to install a grease trap/
interceptor. A copy of the Modification Request Form is attached to Resolution
R072715A and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
      NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A written document describing any violation to this
policy for the information of the user in non-compliance.
      OIL-WATER SEPARATOR. A device which utilizes the difference in density
between oil, petroleum products or chemical products, and water for removal.
      SEWER USER. Any person or facility who introduces or discharges any
substance into the sanitary sewer system of the utility, which may pertain to
both the owner and the occupant of real estate from which the substance is
introduced or discharged.
      TSS (TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Total suspended matter that either floats
on the surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquid,
and that is removable by filtering as prescribed in the latest version of the
"Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater."
      UTILITY. The wastewater conveyance and treatment utility owned and
operated by the City of Fishers.
      UTILITY BOARD. The City of Fishers Board of Public Works and Safety or
its designee.
   (C)   Requirements for fats, oils and grease interceptors, traps and oil-
water separators.
      (1)   All FOG facilities are required to have a FOG pretreatment device
properly installed that is acceptable to the utility and in accordance with
this policy.
      (2)   All FOG pretreatment devices shall operate in compliance with the
utility's discharge limits.
      (3)   All FOG pretreatment device installation and maintenance shall be
at the sewer user's expense.
      (4)   The sizing and plumbing configuration required to prevent the
introduction of FOG into the utility's system is the responsibility of the FOG
facility design professional. The utility does not assume any responsibility in
the sizing of the FOG pretreatment device.
      (5)   Facilities which will be expanded or renovated to include a FOG
facility, where such FOG facility did not previously exist, shall be required
to install and maintain a grease interceptor, grease trap or oil-water
separator which is acceptable to the utility.
      (6)   Existing FOG facilities shall be permitted to operate and maintain
an existing FOG pretreatment device provided these are in proper operating
condition as set forth within this policy.
      (7)   Newly-constructed facilities that will/or could include FOG
facilities are required to install and maintain a grease interceptor or oil-
water separator in accordance with this policy.
      (8)   A new multi-use facility is required to have connections to a FOG
pretreatment device acceptable to the utility.
      (9)   If the facility does not have plumbing collections to a FOG
pretreatment device that functions to bring the sewer user in compliance with
the requirements of the utility, the utility shall require the facility to
modify their current plumbing to prevent the introduction of FOG into the sewer
as prohibited by this policy.
      (10)   All FOG pretreatment devices shall have adequate retention time at
actual peak flow between the influent and effluent baffles to allow for any
solids to settle or accumulate and floatable grease-derived materials to rise
and accumulate and prevent discharge limit violations.
      (11)   All grease traps shall include flow regulators.
      (12)   All grease interceptors shall include a tee outlet with a maximum
height of 18 inches above the interceptor's base.
      (13)   No accumulation of floatable FOG and/or settled solids shall
exceed 25% of the total volume of the grease trap or grease interceptor.
      (14)   No settled oils in the oil-water separator should be left to
accumulate in excess of 20% of the wetted height of the oil-water separator,
and no floating oil and grease in the oil-water separator should be left to
accumulate in excess of 5% of the wetted height of the oil-water separator.
      (15)   All FOG pretreatment devices must be located so that maintenance
and inspections can be easily performed as established by the utility.
      (16)   The use of automatic removal systems is permissible only upon
written approval from the utility.
      (17)   A grease interceptor and oil-water separator may be used by more
than one facility if the capacity of the device is such that all the limits are
met as established through this policy.
      (18)   Grease traps may not be shared by multiple facilities.
      (19)   If a grease interceptor cannot be installed readily or
economically in a FOG facility, the utility may approve a grease trap to be
installed in the facility, at the owner's expense, on a trial basis. If the
grease trap does not allow the discharge to meet FOG discharge limits, the
facility will be required to install a grease interceptor in compliance with
this policy.
   (D)   Grease interceptor, grease trap and oil-water separator maintenance.
      (1)   The grease interceptor, grease trap or oil-water separator shall be
maintained at the sewer user's expense.
      (2)   The sewer user shall maintain the grease interceptor, grease trap
or oil-water separator in order to not allow wastewater discharge concentration
from their pretreatment device to exceed any of the utility's discharge
requirements.
      (3)   All grease interceptors and oil-water separators shall be serviced
and emptied as frequently as needed in order to maintain an acceptable waste
limit, but not less than every three months.
      (4)   All grease traps shall be serviced and emptied of accumulated waste
content as frequently as needed in order to maintain an acceptable waste
discharge limit, but no less than twice per week.
      (5)   Grease interceptors, grease traps and oil-water separators shall be
completely evacuated anytime the discharge exceeds BOD, TSS, FOG, pH, or other
pollutant levels establish by the utility.
      (6)   All waste (floating FOG and settled solids) shall be removed from
the FOG pretreatment device, hauled away and disposed of per state standards.
      (7)   No waste/water shall be returned to a pretreatment device once
pumped.
      (8)   The maintenance of a grease interceptor used by more than one
facility shall be the responsibility of the owner of the grease interceptor.
      (9)   The utility may extend the 90-day grease interceptor pump-out
frequency, and/or the twice per week grease trap cleaning frequency if the
sewer user petitions the utility for such modifications and provides a complete
Modification Request Form, a copy of which is attached to Resolution R072715A
and incorporated by reference as if set forth in full herein.
      (10)   The utility may shorten the pump-out or cleaning frequency when,
in the opinion of the utility, such frequency is insufficient to ensure the
utility's discharge levels.
      (11)   Following the mandated cleaning schedule does not guarantee
compliance with the discharge limits or device capacity limits. It is the
responsibility of the FOG facility to maintain an acceptable FOG level mandated
by this policy.
      (12)   If the FOG facility's grease trap is cleaned by their staff, the
staff shall dispose of the grease in a manner that does not reintroduce grease/
waste back in the utility's sanitary sewer system.
      (13)   If the utility determines the garbage disposal is a factor in the
restricted discharge of FOG, then the garbage disposal shall be connected to
the grease trap, or grease interceptor, or removed from the facility.
      (14)   No person shall introduce, or cause, permit, or suffer the
introduction of any surfactant, solvent or emulsifier into a grease
interceptor. Surfactants, solvents and emulsifiers are materials which allow
the grease to pass from the grease interceptor into the collection system, and
include, but are not limited to enzymes, soap, diesel, kerosene, turpentine and
other solvents.
   (E)   FOG facility reporting requirements.
      (1)   All businesses and industry shall provide, on demand, to the
utility, sufficient information to determine if it is a FOG facility.
      (2)   The owner, or owner's representative, of the FOG facility shall
notify the utility, in writing, of changes regarding the facility's occupant,
building usage, and/or new construction within 30 days of the date the change
takes place.
      (3)   All FOG facilities must maintain written FOG pretreatment device
maintenance records for three years on a continuously rolling calendar basis.
All such records shall be available for inspection by utility staff at any/all
time. These records shall include: facility name and location, date and time of
cleaning service, name of grease hauling company, name and signature of grease-
hauling company agent performing said service, established service frequency an
type of service (full pump, partial pump out, onsite treatment), number and
size of each pretreatment device serviced, approximate amount of grease and
solids removed from each pretreatment device, total volume of waste removed
from each pretreatment device, destination of removed waste, signature and date
of FOG facility personnel confirming service completion. A copy of the Program
Maintenance Log is attached to Resolution R072715A and incorporated by
reference as if set forth in full herein.
      (4)   FOG facilities shall report, in writing, their FOG pretreatment
device maintenance records to the utility quarterly. A copy of the Food Service
Facility Quarterly Report is attached to Resolution R072715A and incorporated
by reference as if set forth in full herein.
      (5)   A facility shall report to the utility, by phone, any accidental
discharge immediately. A written report must be provided by the facility within
24 hours of the event.
   (F)   FOG facility inspection.
      (1)   All FOG pretreatment devices may be inspected by the utility as
necessary to assure compliance with this policy.
      (2)   Each FOG facility shall allow any utility official or agent of the
utility bearing proper identification access to all parts of the premises for
the purpose of inspection, observation, record examination, measurement,
sampling and testing in this policy.
      (3)   The refusal of any FOG facility to allow the utility's official
entry to, or upon, the facility's premise for purposes of inspection, sampling
effluents, inspecting and copying records, or performing other such duties
shall constitute a violation of this policy.
      (4)   The utility's office shall inspect FOG facilities during both
scheduled and unscheduled visits.
   (G)   FOG facility management.
      (1)   It is the facility owner's responsibility to make sure that all
employees and/or tenants are informed about the city's FOG program and best
management practices are mandated to help with compliance.
      (2)   If management changes within the FOG facility, it is the facility
owner's responsibility to train the new management on the reporting
requirements to ensure compliance.
      (3)   Any FOG facility with a change in ownership will be recognized as a
new FOG facility and shall comply with the utility's discharge limits and in
accordance with this policy.
      (4)   If the FOG facility changes names but keeps the same owner, the
facility owner is responsible to inform the utility of the change within 30
days. Failure to notify the utility may result in penalty fees.
      (5)   If the FOG facility is sold or leased/rented, the facility owner
(both new and old in the event of a sale) is responsible to inform the utility
of the change prior to the effective date of the change. Failure to notify the
utility may result in penalty fees.
      (6)   If the FOG facility's type of business changes, it is the facility
owner's responsibility to notify the utility within 30 days of the type of
change that is being made in the business.
   (H)   FOG facility enforcement and non-compliance fees.
      (1)   A notice of violation (NOV) shall be issued to the sewer user for
one or more of the following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to properly maintain the grease interceptor, grease trap
or oil-water separator
in accordance with the provisions of this policy.
         (b)   Failure to maintain the required records of cleaning/pumping
activities.
         (c)   Failure to provide logs, files, records or access for inspection
of monitoring activities.
      (2)   The NOV will include the description of the violation, number of
days to correct the deficiencies and/or violations, and the applicable fee for
the violation. Any fee assessed under this policy will be in accordance with
the applicable fee schedule adopted by the City Council.
      (3)   All sampling and monitoring after a violation of this policy shall
be at the violating FOG facility's expense.
      (4)   All non-compliance issues are to remain on record for an 18-month
rolling calendar for the purpose of determining the level for the NOV.
Therefore, all violation will be in effect for 18 months starting the day of
the initial violation. On the day after the 18th month, the violation will be
removed if all outstanding violation fees have been paid in full.
      (5)   If a FOG facility wishes to dispute a violation and/or fee, it must
be done in writing to the Utility Board via letter, email or fax with 30 days
of the notice of violation or notice of fee, whichever is later. All disputes
shall be review by the Utility Board,
      (6)   If a sewer user has reason to believe that a specific limit or
requirement of the policy does not, or should not apply to their FOG facility,
the sewer user must submit a Modification Request Form, a copy of which is
attached to Resolution R072715A and incorporated herein by reference as if set
forth in full herein, along with information supporting the modification
request, to the utility to be reviewed/considered by the utility, and the FOG
facility will be informed of their decision in writing within one week of their
decision. Documentation on the request and its approval/disapproval will become
a part of the facility's account file.
(Res. R072715A, passed 7-25-15; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.51 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The remedies provided for in this section are not exclusive. The city
may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant
user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be conducted in
accordance with the city's enforcement response plan as adopted by the Board of
Public Works & Safety. However, the city may take other action against any user
when the circumstances warrant. Further the city is empowered to take more than
one enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
   (B)   The Superintendent may, after notice to the discharger, immediately
and effectively halt or prevent any discharge of pollutants to the POTW which
reasonably appears to present an imminent endangerment to the health or welfare
of persons, the environment, and/or which threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW.
   (C)   The Superintendent may issue an order to correct or abate a violation
of this chapter. If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the
requirements set forth in the order, the Superintendent, or his duly authorized
representative, shall have the authority to enter upon the user's premises and
are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation,
including physically severing the sewer connection, and/or terminating water
service to the facility. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the Superintendent or
his designee or a designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the
purposes set forth above. Penalties shall include but are not necessarily
limited to those found in this chapter.
   (D)   When the Superintendent finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Superintendent may petition the Hamilton County Superior or
Circuit Court, through the City Law Department for the issuance of a temporary
or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the
specific performance of the individual wastewater discharge permit, order, or
other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The
Superintendent may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal and/
or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
(Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
CONTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS FOR DEVELOPERS AND NEW USERS OF SEWAGE FACILITIES
§ 51.55 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICATION FEE. A fee charged at the time application for sewage service is
made, which is non- refundable and which represents the cost to the city of
processing such application.
   AVAILABILITY CHARGE. A payment which shall be required for the privilege of
connecting a service line or lateral sewer from a residence, commercial user or
tract of ground into the city's local sewers or interceptor as a capital
contribution for the availability of service, present or future.
   CONNECTION CHARGE. A payment required to cover the cost to inspect the
connection of a service line to the local sewer. This payment shall be charged
and paid at the time the application for connection is made. This charge
applies to the single family residence and all equivalent dwelling units, i.e.,
residential, commercial, industrial, et seq.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, individual, corporation or entity engaged in
developing a property, tract of ground or improving a lot or group of lots or
structures thereon for the use of occupancy, owning or selling the property to
be connected or served by the sewage facilities.
   EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU). The single family residence situated upon a
single lot, and also the sewage contribution from that residence, being 300
gallons per day.
   EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT REVENUE. That monthly revenue charged the resident
based upon the then current schedule of rates and charges.
   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. The sanitary sewer, usually located within the streets,
alley or easements, which normally receives the sewage from the local sewers.
This sewer usually conveys the sewage to the treatment plant or point of
ultimate disposal.
   LATERAL SEWER. The sanitary sewer, usually located within the street, alley
or easements, which normally receives the sewage from the local sewers. Service
lines are not excluded form connecting directly to this sewer.
   LOCAL SEWER. The sanitary sewer, eight inches minimum, usually located
within the street, alley or easements, which receives the sewage from the
individual service lines.
   OVERSIZING COSTS. The costs of oversizing sewers or the sewage treatment
plant or other facilities in anticipation of the need to serve future
customers. The cost of extending an existing sewer at a consistent size, depth,
and slope through a property being developed shall not be considered an
oversizing cost.
   RATIO OF EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT REVENUE. That monthly revenue charged a
user or customer, of the sewage facility, divided by the EQUIVALENT DWELLING
UNIT REVENUE.
   SERVICE AREA. That area to be served by the city sewage treatment plant and
collection sewers. Such area will usually include the drainage area permitting
the use of gravity sewers, and certain adjacent areas that may be readily
pumped into such sewers.
   SERVICE LATERAL. A branch, from the local or collecting sewer, between that
sewer and the property line of the intended user. Usually installed by the
developer or in certain cases the lot owner or user.
   SERVICE LINE. The sewer line, six inches minimum, installed between the
residence or structure for the purpose of conveying the sewage discharge to the
service lateral on the local or collecting sewer. This line is installed by the
individual owner or builder.
(Ord. 071684A, passed 8-20-84; Am. Ord. 051789, passed 6-7-89; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.56 EXPANSION AND CONNECTION POLICY.
   (A)   All local and lateral sewers to be connected directly or indirectly
into the city's sewage facility or collection system shall, at the owner's or
developer's expense, be designed, constructed and installed, by the owner or
developer to the city's specifications. The new sewers shall, upon acceptance
of the city, be dedicated to the city. These new sewers shall be located in
such streets, alleys, rights-of-way, and easements as are approved by the city.
   (B)   The sewage treatment plant expansions shall be designed and built by
the city. The expansions shall be funded by a combination of the above defined
charges, plus the use of state and federal funds, if available.
   (C)   No sewer collection facilities shall be extended, nor shall any
connections be made to the city's sewage treatment facility unless and until
such area to which facilities will be extended is within the city limits, or
has agreed to be annexed to the city or has agreed not to remonstrate against
such annexation.
   (D)   Prior to the commencement of construction of any sewer, the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management's approval shall be furnished to the
city.
   (E)   Prior to the commencement of construction of any sewer or collection
facility, the plans shall be approved in writing by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 071684A, passed 8-20-84; Am. Ord. 051789, passed 6-7-89; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.57 (RESERVED).
§ 51.58 (RESERVED).
§ 51.59 PRIOR AGREEMENTS OF CITY.
   This subchapter shall in no way affect developers or owners or users of the
city sewage facility who have heretofore entered into agreements with the city
for the extension of city sewage facilities which are now in existence and have
been dedicated to the city and constructed by the developer.
(Ord. 071684A, passed 8-20-84; Am. Ord. 051789, passed 6-7-89; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
Cross-reference:
   For individual entries regarding agreements between users, see
T.S.O. II
§ 51.60 PROTECTION OF BOND HOLDERS OF SEWAGE WORKS.
   Nothing in this subchapter will be construed to place a lien on the revenues
of Fishers Municipal Sewage Works receipts which lien would be superior to,
equal to or take priority over the rights of holders or owners of sewage
revenue bonds of the city now outstanding or to be issued in the future.
(Ord. 071684A, passed 8-20-84; Am. Ord. 051789, passed 6-7-89; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.61 AMENDMENTS.
   This subchapter and the costs and charges set out herein may be amended from
time to time by the City Council when conditions exist that indicate to the
Council that charges herein are not equitable for the customers of the
municipal sewage system or for the subdividers, developers or owners of
property connections to such sewage system.
(Ord. 071684A, passed 8-20-84; Am. Ord. 051789, passed 6-7-89; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
TERMINATING WATER SERVICE TO DELINQUENT SEWER USERS
§ 51.65 TERMINATION OF SERVICE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The city, by and through its Controller or his or her designee, may
order the termination of water service to a sewer service address for
nonpayment of a delinquent account that is not less than 30 days delinquent.
When so ordered the water utility shall terminate such service in accordance
with the terms of their agreement with the city.
   (B)   The fee for terminating services shall be a minimum of $45, which
shall include charges assessed against the city by the water utility for
effecting the termination. Fee for terminating commercial and industrial
services shall be determined in an agreement between the city and the water
company. This fee shall be assessed against the customer and added to the sewer
delinquent bill.
   (C)   The city may not terminate under this section if the Hamilton County
Health Department has found and certified to the city that the termination of
water service will endanger the health of the user and others in the
municipality.
   (D)   (1)   Prior to the termination of water service because of sewer user
fee delinquency the city must first give notice of such delinquency and
impending termination at least 30 calendar days prior to the proposed
termination, by first-class mail addressed to the user to whom the service is
billed, which notice shall contain the following:
         (a)   The delinquent amount due, together with any penalty and fees;
         (b)   The date of the notice of termination;
         (c)   The date on and after which termination shall be made, which
shall be at least 30 calendar days from the date of the notice of termination;
         (d)   Notice that water service may be disconnected if, prior to the
earliest possible date of termination given in the notice, the user does not
pay the delinquency together with any penalty and fees, or disputes the amount,
or makes other provisions for payment pursuant to this section;
         (e)   A procedure, as provided in division (D)(2) for resolving a
disputed bill.
      (2)   The city shall appoint an account review officer (ARO) to review
and resolve disputes. Before the earliest possible date of termination of water
service as specified in the notice, a user may request a hearing before the ARO
to dispute the correctness of all or part of the amount shown in accordance
with the provisions of this section. A user shall not be entitled to dispute
the correctness of all or part of the amount if all or part of the amount was
the subject of a previous dispute under this section.
   (E)   The procedure for a hearing on a user dispute shall be as follows:
      (1)   Before the earliest possible date of termination as specified on
the notice of termination, the user shall notify the ARO in writing, that he/
she requests a hearing to dispute the correctness of all or part of the amounts
shown on the notice of termination, stating as completely as possible the basis
for the dispute.
      (2)   An informal hearing before the ARO shall be held within 15 days of
the ARO's receipt of the user's written request for a hearing on a disputed
bill.
      (3)   At the hearing, the user shall be entitled to present all evidence
that is, in the ARO's view, relevant and material to the dispute.
      (4)   Based on the evidence presented at the hearing, the ARO within ten
days of the completion of the hearing, shall issue a written decision formally
resolving the dispute. The ARO's decision shall be final and binding.
   (F)   The ARO shall be authorized to resolve any disputed sewage bill and
shall be authorized to order the termination of water service under appropriate
circumstances. Upon approval by the ARO, the user may enter into an agreement
to amortize the unpaid balance of his/her account over a reasonable period of
time, not to exceed six months. No termination shall be effected for any user
complying with any such amortization agreement, provided the user also keeps
current his/her account for sewer service as charges accrue in each subsequent
billing period. If a user fails to comply with an amortization agreement, the
ARO may terminate water service provided notice is given to the user at least
48 hours prior to such termination and the notice includes conditions the user
is required to meet to avoid termination.
   (G)   Utilization of this hearing procedure shall not relieve a user of the
obligation to timely and completely pay all other undisputed water and sewage
bills or charges. Failure to timely and completely pay all such undisputed
amounts shall subject the user to the termination of service in accordance with
the provisions of this division.
   (H)   Until the date of the ARO's decision, the city shall not terminate
water service of the user. If the ARO determines that the customer must pay
some or all of the disputed amount, the department, or ARO in his written
decision, shall notify the user of the following:
      (1)   The amount to be paid;
      (2)   The date on or after which services will be terminated; and
      (3)   Notice that unless the city receives complete payment of the amount
shown prior to the earliest possible date of termination given in the notice,
water service shall be terminated.
         (a)   A USER for the purpose of this section is defined as:
            1.   A person who requests, either orally or in writing, water and/
or sewage service from the city or water utilities;
            2.   A person in whose name water and/or sewage service is billed
for the rendering of the service.
(Ord. 033094B, passed 4-20-94; Am. Ord. 081400, passed 9-25-00; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.66 TERMINATION OF SERVICES NOT EXCLUSIVE REMEDY.
   The remedy provided herein for the collection of delinquent sewer user
charges or benefits shall not be construed to abridge or in manner interfere
with the right and power of the city to enforce a collection thereof by any
other action or as otherwise provided by statute, but the remedy provided in
such section shall be taken and held as an additional means to enforce payment
of sewer service charges or benefits.
(Ord. 033094B, passed 4-20-94; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.67 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   As used in this section, the term FINAL ACCOUNT shall have the
following meaning: A closed account for which sewer service is no longer being
provided to the customer at that service location.
   (B)   The city shall prepare a semi-annual schedule of sewer user final
accounts which it has determined to be uncollectible. The schedule shall
consist of the following:
      (1)   (a)   For bills becoming due prior to July 1, 1988, a certified
list of all sewer user final accounts for which the outstanding fees and
penalties together are $25 or less and which are at least 120 days delinquent
and which the department has determined to be uncollectible;
         (b)   For bills becoming due after July 1, 1988, a certified list of
all sewer user final accounts for which the fees and penalties together are $25
or less and which are at least 120 days delinquent and which are not subject to
liening under IC 36-9-23-31 through IC 36-9-25-11 and which the city has
determined to be uncollectible;
      (2)   A statement setting forth the efforts that have been made to
collect such accounts and a statement that all such efforts have been
unsuccessful;
      (3)   A statement, including the reasons therefor, that the city believes
it is economically not feasible to pursue collection measures on such accounts.
   (C)   The semi-annual schedule shall be submitted to the City Council, which
by resolution may declare accounts listed in the schedule as uncollectible and
may authorize the city to cease further collection procedures and expense the
amounts outstanding on the accounts as bad debts.
   (D)   The semi-annual schedule prepared by the city and the resolution
adopted by the Board shall be forwarded to the City Council for final approval.
A sewer user account may be deemed uncollectible only if the Council shall
approve the Board's resolution.
(Ord. 033094B, passed 4-20-94; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
011325, passed 2-24-25)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.70 SCHEDULE OF USER CHARGES.
   (A)   Statement of acquisition. On or around July 22, 2021, the City of
Fishers (the "city") entered into a certain Asset Purchase Agreement
("agreement") with Hamilton-Southeastern Utilities, Inc. ("HSE"), whereby the
city generally acquired all assets of HSE, including, without limitation, all
current and future customers of HSE within its service area in and around
Fishers (the "HSE Service Area"). Prior to the acquisition, HSE assessed
customers within the HSE service area certain rates and charges pursuant to a
tariff approved by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission on or around April
10, 2019, Cause No. 45135 (HSE Tariff), and the city assessed customers within
its service area (the "Fishers service area") certain rates and charges
pursuant to its rate ordinance approved by the Common Council for the City of
Fishers on December 21, 2015, Ordinance 101915 ("Fishers Sewer Rate
Ordinance"). The HSE service area and Fishers service area are further defined
and depicted in Ordinance 101121A, adopted by the Common Council on November
15, 2021, which is incorporated herein by reference. The city committed to not
raise sewer rates and charges in either the Fishers service area or HSE service
area in order to complete the acquisition. Accordingly, the city has
incorporated and will initially assess ratepayers in the HSE service area the
same charges and rates as provided by the HSE Tariff, and will initially assess
ratepayers in the Fishers service area the same rates and charges as provided
in the Fishers Sewer Rate Ordinance. The rates and charges for each schedule
apply the same to customers whether they reside inside or outside the corporate
boundaries of Fishers, but the difference in rates between the Fishers service
area and HSE service area is $8.79 or approximately 26%.
   (B)   User charges - District 1 (formerly Fishers) service area. Users in
the District 1 service area shall pay a monthly user charge based on an
equivalent user charge factor of one equivalent dwelling unit ("EDU"). The
monthly equivalent user charge for a single-family residential user is hereby
fixed and established at $34. The units listed below will pay a monthly user
charge based on the multiplication of the decimal times $34 unless, at the City
Controller’s discretion, the bill has been prorated due to the sale of the
property. The prorated amounts from the seller and buyer will not pay a sum
that totals less than $34. The equivalent user charge of $34 may, from time to
time, be updated and changed by the city as an amendment of this section. Users
in the District 1 service area shall pay the following rates and charges for
sewer service:
      (1)   Schedule I - general service rates.
         (a)   Non-metered rates for one month consumption periods -
residential.
 
TYPE OF SERVICE                             RATE PER MONTH
Single family residence                     $34.00
Two family residence (duplex)               $68.00
Townhomes                                   $34.00
Multi-Family and Apartments (per unit) (.7) $23.80
 
         (b)   Metered rates for one month consumption periods - all non-
residential users. All non-residential customers in District 1 of the city's
sewage treatment utility who are also serviced by Citizens Water, shall pay a
monthly sewer user charge equal to $3.78 for each 1,000 gallons of water as
metered by Citizens Water. This sewer user charge shall be in lieu of the
standard residential rates which are applicable to residential customers in
District 1. This non-residential, metered rate is equivalent to the current
standard rate of $34 per equivalent dwelling unit, which is also the minimum
monthly rate per user.
         (c)   Non-metered rates for one month consumption periods - all other
non-residential users. This section applies to non-residential users who are
not billed based on water meter readings. Beginning March 1, 2025, all new non-
residential customers will be billed under this division, with a minimum of two
EDUs for each non-residential customer. New non-residential customers include
those non-residential customers that have a change in ownership, tenant, use,
or remodel.
 
TYPE OF SERVICE                        RATE PER MONTH
Commercial, industrial, retail, office $68.00 minimum
Non-residential, non-metered customers in District 1 will have a monthly rate
equal to $34.00 per equivalent dwelling unit multiplied by the number of
equivalent dwelling units or fraction thereof as defined in § 51.70(B),
Schedule III. The minimum monthly rate for non-residential, non-metered users
will be no lower than two equivalent dwelling units.
 
      (2)   Schedule II - tariff.
         (a)   Contributions and charges. When the city's sewage facilities are
capable of servicing an area of property within its jurisdiction, and such area
or property has not been previously connected, contributions and charges on
behalf of the unconnected property shall be required as follows:
            1.   Application fee. A charge of $100 per EDU, based upon the use
proposed for the property, shall be charged as an application fee and shall be
due at the time the application is made for sanitary sewerage service to the
applicant. The application fee shall be used to reimburse the costs incurred by
the city for personnel, equipment and consultants necessary to effect an
appropriate review of the application. The application shall be in a form
approved by the city's Board of Public Works and Safety.
            2.   Availability charge. A charge of $2,400 per EDU, based upon
the use proposed for said property. The equivalent number of dwelling units in
the case of users or units other than single family residences shall be
determined as provided in §
51.70(B), Schedule III. The number of equivalent units for situations not
covered by the table will be determined by the Board of Public Works and
Safety. Notwithstanding any other provisions contained herein to the contrary,
the city may contract with the owner or developer for an additional
availability charge for treatment plant capacity, to be collected in advance by
the city for purposes of expanding the capacity of the sewage treatment plant
to meet such owner's or developer's needs. The availability charges, where
applicable, shall be paid in cash upon application for a building permit.
            3.   Connection charge. A charge of $250 per EDU is hereby imposed.
It is the intention of this chapter that the connection charges are to be paid
by the individual builder, lot owner or customer and that these charges are in
addition to the described contributions and charges. These charges are for the
cost incurred as set out in the definitions. The connection charge shall be
paid at the time the building permit is obtained. The number of equivalent
dwelling units shall be determined as provided in §
51.70(B), Schedule III.
            4.   Fats, oils and grease (“FOG”) charge. Customers that qualify
as a FOG facility, shall be subject to a monthly charge for FOG in the amount
of $30 per month. The FOG charge supports the additional costs of
administering, monitoring and treating the excessive waste associated with FOG.
If violations of city’s FOG rules occur, monthly inspections will commence at a
cost of $90 per inspection until the violations cease.
      (3)   Schedule III - EDU equivalency chart.
TYPE OF SERVICE EQUIVALENT DWELLING USAGE
TYPE OF SERVICE                                    EQUIVALENT DWELLING USAGE
01 Single family residence                         1.0
02 Two family residence (duplex)                   2.0
03 Townhomes                                       1.0
04 Multi-family and apartments - per unit          .7
05 Mobile homes- per unit                          .8
06 Motels and hotels - per unit (Restaurant, see   .4
   below)
07 Service clubs and churches - per 200 members or  
   fraction thereof:
  Without kitchen                                 1.0
  With kitchen                                    2.0
08 Office use - per 1,000 square feet              .5
09 Health service office - per exam room           .6
10 Personal care - per chair                       .4
11 Restaurant - per seat                           .1
  Food drive-in - per car space                   .2
  Fast food - per employee                        .2
12 Food and drug retail service - per employee     .2
13 Laundry- per washer                             1.3
  Car wash - per bay                              2.0
14 Fueling station                                 1.5
 
TYPE OF SERVICE EQUIVALENT DWELLING USAGE
                                                                              EQUIVALENT
TYPE OF SERVICE                                                               DWELLING
                                                                              USAGE
15 Retail sales and service - each three employees or fraction thereof        1.0
16 Manufacturing - per eight employees - sanitary use only                    1.0
  Manufacturing - process (case-by-case basis)                                
  Warehouses - per 40,000 square feet                                        1.0
17 Bars and cocktail lounges - per seat - without restaurant                  .05
18 Bowling alley - per alley                                                  .4
19 Bowling alley with bar - per alley                                         2.0
20 Dentist office - per chair                                                 1.4
21 Physician's office - per examining room                                    .6
22 Schools with gym and cafeteria - per student                               .06
  Without gyms and cafeteria - per student                                   .04
23 Swimming Pool (Public or Membership-Based) – per 1,000 square feet water 1.9
   surface
24 Other uses as determined by Fishers Board of Public Works & Safety (case-   
   by-case basis)
Ratios indicated above are subject to change by City of Fishers Board of Public Works &
Safety
 
   (C)   User charges - District 2 (Formerly HSE) service area. Users in the
District 2 service area shall pay the following rates and charges for sewer
service.
      (1)   Schedule I - general service rates.
         (a)   Non-metered rates for one month consumption periods -
residential.
 
TYPE OF SERVICE                             RATE PER MONTH
Single family residence                     $42.79
Two family residence (duplex)               $85.58
Townhomes                                   $42.79
Multi-Family and Apartments (per unit) (.7) $29.95
 
         (b)   Non-metered rates for one month consumption periods - all non-
residential users.
 
TYPE OF SERVICE                        RATE PER MONTH
Commercial, industrial, retail, office $85.58 minimum
Non-residential, non-metered customers in District 2 will have a monthly rate
equal to $42.79 per equivalent dwelling unit multiplied by the number of
equivalent dwelling units or fraction thereof as defined in §
51.70(C), Schedule III. The minimum monthly rate for non-residential users
will be no lower than two equivalent dwelling units.
 
         (c)   Wholesale private utility customers. Wholesale private utility
customers shall be charged at the rate stipulated in the latest wholesale
service agreement. As of March 1, 2025, this rate is $3.20 per 1,000 gallons of
wastewater discharged into the city’s wastewater facilities.
         (d)   Sewer tracker. The sewer tracker, occasioned solely by changes
in the cost of sewage disposal service, is $4.75 per EDU per month for District
2. The tracker is applicable to the rates and charges in §
51.70(C), Schedule I, and is included in the base rates and charges as shown in
that division.
      (2)   Schedule II - tariff.
TYPE OF FEE FEE AMOUNT
TYPE OF FEE                                                    FEE AMOUNT
(a) Application fee.                                            
Fee per equivalent dwelling unit for the review of connection  $100.00
plans
(b) System development charge.                                  
Fee per equivalent dwelling unit for capital improvements to   $4,471.00
the utility's system
(c) Connection fee.                                             
Fee per equivalent dwelling unit connecting to the utility's   $305.00
system
(d) Re-connection fee.                                          
Fee per physical connection for re-connection following        $305.00
disconnection for failure to pay sewer bill
(e) Fats, oils and grease ("FOG") charge.                       
Applicability: customers that qualify as a FOG facility, shall
be subject to a monthly charge for FOG. The FOG charge will    $30.00 per month
support the additional costs of administering, monitoring and
treating the excessive waste associated with FOG.
Additional charge: if violations of city's FOG rules occur, monthly inspections
will commence at a cost of $90.00 per inspection until the violations cease.
 
      (3)   Schedule III - EDU equivalency chart. Ratio of sewer usage of
single-family residence to other types of uses: a single-family residence is
equivalent to 300 gallons per day.
TYPE OF SERVICE EQUIVALENT DWELLING USAGE
TYPE OF SERVICE                                       EQUIVALENT DWELLING USAGE
01 Single family residence                            1.0
02 Two family residence (duplex)                      2.0
03 Townhomes                                          1.0
04 Multi-family and apartments - per unit             .7
05 Mobile homes- per unit                             .8
06 Motels and hotels - per unit (Restaurant, see      .4
   below)
07 Service clubs and churches - per 200 members or     
   fraction thereof:
  Without kitchen                                    1.0
  With kitchen                                       2.0
08 Office use - per 1,000 square feet                 .5
09 Health service office - per exam room              .6
10 Personal care - per chair                          .4
11 Restaurant - per seat                              .1
  Food drive-in - per car space                      .2
  Fast food - per employee                           .2
12 Food and drug retail service - per employee        .2
13 Laundry- per washer                                1.3
  Car wash - per bay                                 2.0
14 Fueling station                                    1.5
15 Retail sales and service - each three employees or 1.0
   fraction thereof
16 Manufacturing - per eight employees - sanitary use 1.0
   only
  Manufacturing - process (case-by-case basis)        
  Warehouses - per 40,000 square feet                1.0
 
TYPE OF SERVICE EQUIVALENT DWELLING USAGE
                                                                              EQUIVALENT
TYPE OF SERVICE                                                               DWELLING
                                                                              USAGE
17 Bars and cocktail lounges - per seat - without restaurant                  .05
18 Bowling alley - per alley                                                  .4
19 Bowling alley with bar - per alley                                         2.0
20 Dentist office - per chair                                                 1.4
21 Physician's office - per examining room                                    .6
22 Schools with gym and cafeteria - per student                               .06
  Without gyms and cafeteria - per student                                   .04
23 Swimming Pool (Public or Membership-Based) – per 1,000 square feet water 1.9
   surface
24 Other uses as determined by Fishers (case-by-case basis)                    
Ratios indicated above are subject to change by City of Fishers
 
   (D)   Methods of payment; transaction and other fees. Payments to the
utility for any purpose may be made by the financial instruments authorized by
the utility in accordance with IC 36-1-8-11. If there is a charge to the
utility for the use of a financial instrument, the utility may collect a sum
equal to the amount of the charge from the person who uses the financial
instrument. If there is a vendor transaction charge or discount fee, whether
billed to the utility or charged directly to utility's account, the utility may
collect from the person using the card an official fee that may not exceed the
transaction charge or discount fee charged to the utility by bank or credit
card vendors in accordance with IC 36-1-8-11.
(Ord. 05-04-81, passed 5-4-81; Am. Ord. 07-16-84, passed 7-16-84; Am. Ord.
110492J, passed 12-9-92; Am. Ord. 11793B, passed 11-17-93; Am. Ord. 111793C,
passed 11-17-93; Am. Ord. 042094B, passed 7-6-94; Am. Ord. 062597A, passed 8-6-
97; Am. Ord. 122997A, passed 12-29-97; Am. Ord. 081400, passed 9-25-00; Am.
Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 101915, passed 12-21-15; Am. Ord.
101121A, passed 11-15-21; Am. Ord. 090924D, passed 10-7-24; Am. Ord. 011325,
passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.71 (RESERVED).
§ 51.72 BILLING OF SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   Billing period. User charges for sewer service shall be prepared and
billed each month by the city and shall be payable to the City Controller’s
office no later than the date reflected on the user’s monthly bill.
   (B)   Liability for payment. The rates and charges for all owner-occupied
single family homes, townhome, duplex and quadplex properties shall be billed
to the owner of the property. For properties that are not single family homes,
townhomes, duplexes or quadplexes, the rates and charges may be billed to the
tenant of rental properties served by the sewage works. Such billing of rental
properties shall in no way relieve the owner of the property from liability in
the event payment is not made as herein required, nor does such billing
restrict the city from any collection procedures, including filing of liens in
accordance with the Indiana Code. The owners of properties which are occupied
by a tenant or tenants shall have the right to examine the collection records
of the city for the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid by such
tenant or tenants, provided that such examination shall be made at the office
of the Controller during the hours that such office is open for business.
   (C)   First billings. The first billing for sewer service shall be rendered
90 days after the date of the official notice to connect to the sewer system
for one and two family residential permits which shall be at the time of
issuance of a structural building permit. Multi-family and commercial billings
shall begin at the time of notification of water connection. A Certificate of
Occupancy shall not be issued until such time as the Controller has been
notified to initiate the billing process. The fees, rates, charges and
surcharges fixed in this chapter shall be extended to and cover any additional
premises hereafter served without the need for any hearing or notice.
   (D)   City subject to charges. For sewage service rendered to the city, the
city shall be subject to the same user charges established in this chapter for
other persons or to user charges established in harmony herewith.
   (E)   Late fees. All fees, rates and charges not paid when due are hereby
declared to be delinquent, and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the fees,
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which the fees,
rates or charges are due is now fixed at 30 days from the end of the previous
billing cycle. Late fees may be waived by the Controller’s office based on
criteria approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
   (F)   Deposits to ensure payment of sewer funds; refunds; forfeitures.
      (1)   The Controller’s office may require the owner, lessee, or user of
property served by the sewage works to pay a deposit to ensure payment of sewer
fees, based on criteria approved by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
      (2)   The deposit required shall equal the estimated average payment due
from the property served by the utility for a period not to exceed three
months, as determined by criteria approved by the Board of Public Works and
Safety. Deposits shall be retained in a separate fund.
      (3)   The deposit, less any outstanding penalties and service fees, shall
be refunded to the depositor after a notarized statement from the depositor
that as of a certain date the property being served: (a) has been conveyed or
transferred to another person; or (b) no longer uses or is connected with any
part of the municipal sewage system. A statement under (a) must include the
name and address of the person to whom the property is conveyed or transferred.
      (4)   If a depositor fails to satisfy costs and fees within 60 days after
the termination of the depositor's use or ownership of the property served, the
depositor forfeits the depositor's deposit and all accrued interest. The
forfeited amount shall be applied to the depositor's outstanding fees.
      (5)   A deposit may be used to satisfy all or part of any judgment
awarded the municipality under this chapter.
      (6)   A deposit made under this section that has remained unclaimed by
the depositor for more than seven years after the termination of the services
for which the deposit was made becomes the property of the City of Fishers.
(Ord. 05-04-81, passed 5-4-81; Am. Ord. 060497D, passed 7-16-97; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 061923, passed 7-12-23; Am. Ord. 011325,
passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.73 FEE FOR PREPARING AND FILING LIENS.
   There is hereby established a new fee in the amount of $60 for the
preparation and filing of liens for unpaid sewage bills. Such fee is based upon
the following:
   (A)   The time expended by the involved departments of the city in order
that the lien to be filed is accurate and than any and all notices have been
properly served on the delinquent sewer customer which equates to $10 per
incident;
   (B)   The cost of filing with the county which is $50 in total for filing
and releases. Such fee shall be added to any delinquency and become a part of
the lien upon its filing.
(Ord. 080403E, passed 8-4-03; Am. Ord. 022006B, passed 2-20-06; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
EXEMPTIONS FROM SEWER BILLING
§ 51.80 WATER LINES USED STRICTLY FOR IRRIGATION PURPOSES EXEMPT FROM SEWER
BILLING.
   (A)   Application for exemption. Any commercial customer of the City Sewage
Treatment Facilities who has a metered water line used exclusively for
irrigation purposes may apply to the City Controller on an application form
approved by the Controller, for an exemption from any sewer billing associated
with the use of such line. Upon the presentation of such application by such
commercial customer, and following review by the Controller, the Controller may
issue such exemption in writing to the applicant. Any exemption so issued shall
be reviewed on an annual basis.
   (B)   Termination of exemption. In the event that a commercial customer
granted an exemption discontinues the use of a metered water line for
irrigation purposes only, it shall be the responsibility of such commercial
customer to notify the Controller immediately, whereupon the exemption granted
by the Controller shall be terminated in writing to the commercial customer.
   (C)   Commencement of exemption. No exemption from the existing policies and
procedures of the city regarding the calculation of sewage bills shall commence
until the exemption letter is issued by the Controller. It is the intent of
this subchapter that any exemptions granted shall act prospectively and not
retroactively.
(Ord. 060591, passed 7-17-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
011325, passed 2-24-25)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any provision of this
Chapter 51 or of the rules and regulations of the Board of Public Works &
Safety or administrative orders pertaining thereto, shall be subject to a fine
of up to $2,500 per day for the first violation and up to $7,500 per day for
the second and subsequent violations. Each day that such violation(s) or
noncompliance continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The city may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs, and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the city.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the
violation, any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective
actions by the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a use.
(Ord. 011325, passed 2-24-25)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
Effective Conservation of Water
   
52.01   Application
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Voluntary conservation
   
52.04   Declaration of need; notice
   
52.05   Mandatory water conservation; exemptions
   
52.06   Enforcement
   
52.07   Violations subject to admission and payment
 
   
52.99   Penalty
EFFECTIVE CONSERVATION OF WATER
§ 52.01 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter applies to the use of water from the Citizens Water, Indiana
American public water system that occurs within the city.
(Ord. 0803090, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 071612C, passed 7-16-12; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVISORY CONDITIONS. Conditions under which voluntary conservation measures
are appropriate due to decreased supplies in the Citizens Water, Indiana
American reservoirs, or other circumstances have reduced the amount of treated
water available to customers, as determined by Citizens Water, Indiana
American.
   CITIZENS WATER, INDIANA AMERICAN. Citizens Water, Indiana American, or their
successors in interest.
   CUSTOMER. An individual, firm, corporation, government agency or other
entity being supplied with water utility service by Citizens Water, Indiana
American at a location within the city.
   MANDATORY CONSERVATION. Compliance with city imposition of requirements that
are designed to reduce certain kinds and types of water use all as set forth
herein.
   NORMAL CONDITIONS. Conditions under which water supply and treatment
capacity are adequate to meet demand.
   TREATED WATER. Water treated in a manner that it is suitable for human
consumption or for another designated use.
   VEGETABLE GARDEN. A garden where substantially all of the plants are
suitable and grown primarily for human consumption.
   VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION. Compliance with the city request to reduce water
use.
   WATER EMERGENCY. An occurrence wherein mandatory conservation measures are
appropriate due to the levels in either of Citizens Water, Indiana American
reservoirs having been reduced to less than their designed drawdown curves or
less than an estimated 25% of their annual drawdown design capacities,
groundwater wells not functioning properly due to reduced groundwater levels or
the existence of other circumstances that have reduced the amount of treated
water available to customers, as determined by Citizens Water, Indiana
American.
   WATER USER. A customer or other individual, firm, corporation, government
agency or other entity using water from the Citizens Water, Indiana American
public water system within the city.
   WATER WARNING. An occurrence wherein mandatory conservation measures are
appropriate due to the levels in either of the Citizens Water, Indiana American
reservoirs having been reduced to less than their designed drawdown curves or
less than an estimated 50% of their annual drawdown design capacities,
groundwater wells not functioning properly due to reduced groundwater levels or
the existence of other circumstances that have reduced the amount of treated
water available to customers, as determined by Citizens Water, Indiana
American.
(Ord. 0803090, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 071612C, passed 7-16-12; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 52.03 VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   During normal conditions and advisory conditions, water users should follow
the voluntary conservation measures as found in the Wise Water Use Policy
adopted by the Board of Directors of Citizens Water, Indiana American and
approved by the city, a copy of which is found in §
36.08.
(Ord. 0803090, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 071612C, passed 7-16-12; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 52.04 DECLARATION OF NEED; NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon determining that the Citizens Water, Indiana, American public
water system is in a condition of water shortage, the Mayor may declare the
existence of a water warning or water emergency, whereupon the respective water
conservation measures described in §
52.05 shall apply until the water warning or emergency is terminated. Whenever
the Mayor finds that some or all of the conditions that gave rise to the
declaration of a water warning or water emergency no longer exist, he or she
may declare the water warning or water emergency terminated.
   (B)   Notice of the declaration or termination of a water warning or water
emergency shall be made by publication in a newspaper of general circulation.
Notice shall be deemed effective 48 hours after publication.
(Ord. 0803090, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 071612C, passed 7-16-12; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 52.05 MANDATORY WATER CONSERVATION; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   During a water warning or a water emergency, it shall be unlawful for
a water user to cause, permit, allow, do or engage in any of the following
actions:
      (1)   Sprinkling, watering or irrigating of grass, except sod or new
seedling grass installed during the year in which a ban is instituted, but
prior to the effective date of the ban, with a handheld nozzle with shut-off
valve;
      (2)   Washing cars, trucks, trailers, mobile homes, railroad cars or any
other type of mobile equipment, except as required by applicable local, state
or federal law for health or safety reasons;
      (3)   Using water to clean sidewalks, driveways, paved areas, structures,
buildings or other outdoor surfaces;
      (4)   Filling empty swimming pools;
      (5)   Installing new lawn by using sod until return to normal conditions
are declared by Fishers or Citizens Water;
      (6)   Using hydrants except for fire suppression or as otherwise directed
by Citizens; and
      (7)   Operating water fountains that are non-recycling.
   (B)   In addition to the prohibitions listed in division (A) above, it shall
be unlawful during a water emergency for a water user to cause, permit, allow,
do or engage in any outdoor watering; provided, however, that vegetable gardens
may be watered every other day by container or hand-held hose equipped with
shut-off nozzle.
   (C)   The following water users and water uses shall be exempt from the
prohibitions contained in divisions (A) and (B) above. Nurseries, provided
water use is limited to the amount essential to preserve inventories.
   (D)   The following water users and water uses may be exempted by the Mayor
from the prohibitions contained in divisions (A) and (B) above:
      (1)   Automatic commercial car washes, provided a majority of the water
used is recycled;
      (2)   Manual commercial car washes, provided only a handheld hose
equipped with a shut-off nozzle is utilized;
      (3)   Golf courses, provided tee boxes and greens are watered only on an
every other day schedule that begins on Monday of each week and fairways are
watered only once per week on Thursday; and
      (4)   Any watering of property owned or controlled by the city Department
of Parks and Recreation as directed by the Mayor or Mayor’s designee where such
watering is necessary or appropriate for asset preservation.
(Ord. 0803090, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 071612C, passed 7-16-12; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the city and any other designee at the
direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 0803090, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 52.07 VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO ADMISSION AND PAYMENT.
   Violations of the ordinance provisions set forth herein are designated as
subject to admissions of violation and payment of the designated civil penalty
through the Ordinance Violations Bureau of the city in an amount not exceeding
any limitation under IC 33-36-2-3 in accordance with the procedures of this
section.
(Ord. 0803090, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Effective conservation of water.
      (1)   Each customer shall be responsible for compliance with §
52.05 with respect to the premises where the customer receives water service.
If the identity of the water user cannot be ascertained, the customer shall be
prima facie liable for violations that occur on such premises.
      (2)   A person’s first and second violations of §
52.05 in any 12-month period shall be subject to an admission of violation and
payment of the designated civil penalty through the Ordinance Violations Bureau
in accordance with Chapter 36 of the Fishers Municipal Code of Ordinances.
      (3)   (a)   Any person who violates the provisions of §§
52.01 through
52.07 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than:
            1.   First offense: Warning;
            2.   Second offense within a year: $500; and
            3.   Third and subsequent offenses within a year: $500.
         (b)   The payment of a penalty for the violation of any provision of
§§
52.01 through
52.07 shall not excuse the violation or permit to continue, nor shall such
payment be held to prevent the enforced correction of the prohibited
conditions. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which such violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   With respect to violations not resolved under Chapter 36, §
36.08 of the Code, including a person’s subsequent violations of §
52.05 in a 12-month period, the Mayor may refer the matter to the Hamilton
County Prosecutor to file an enforcement action in court.
      (5)   All monies collected from violation of this chapter shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 0803090, passed 9-8-09; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 53: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Adoption by reference: Stormwater Management Resolution and
Construction Manual
Stormwater Rates and Charges
   
53.20   Recitals
   
53.21   Definitions
   
53.22   Schedule of user fees and charges
   
53.23   Billing; payment
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT RESOLUTION AND
CONSTRUCTION MANUAL.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety has adopted:
      (1)   Stormwater Management Resolution, Resolution No. 070918
("Stormwater Management Resolution"); and
      (2)   Construction Details and Specifications Manual, containing
Technical Standards and Construction Details, regulating discharges and
drainage of stormwater, erosion and sediment control, grading of lots, design
and maintenance of stormwater systems, and activities affecting wetlands,
Resolution No. 070918A ("Construction Manual").
   (B)   The Resolutions listed in division (A)(1) and (2) above are hereby
incorporated as part of this Code of Ordinances as if set forth herein, and as
amended from time to time.
   (C)   The complete latest edition of the Stormwater Management Resolution
and Construction Manual is on file in the office of the Clerk and available for
public inspection during office hours.
(Ord. 071618B, passed 7-16-18)
STORMWATER RATES AND CHARGES
§ 53.20 RECITALS.
   The recitals set forth in Ordinance 082018 are incorporated by reference as
if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 082018, passed 8-20-18)
§ 53.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY.  The City of Fishers, Indiana.
   CONDOMINIUM.  Any parcel that includes a condominium unit and associated
driveway.
   CUSTOMER or USER. A property owner within the municipal boundaries of the
city.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT(ERU). Equal to 3,318 square feet of impervious
surface area.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.  Area within land that prevents or significantly impedes
the infiltration of stormwater into the soil. Included in this definition are
areas that have been paved and/or covered with buildings and materials which
include, but are not limited to, concrete, asphalt, rooftop, blacktop and
compacted gravel or soil.
   NON- RESIDENTIAL IMPROVED. Any non-residential property that has impervious
surfaces of greater than 1,106 square feet. Can also be a second residential
parcel adjacent to a main home parcel that has impervious surfaces of greater
than 1,106 square feet.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The individual(s) or business entity holding the deed or
record title to the property with the Hamilton County Recorder's Office. A
contract purchaser or tenant is not considered the property owner.
   RESIDENTIAL IMPROVED. A parcel with a residential home dwelling and
associated driveway.
   SMALL NON- RESIDENTIAL.  A non-residential property that has impervious
surfaces of 1,106 square feet or less. Can also be a second residential parcel
adjacent to a main home parcel with impervious surfaces of 1,106 square feet or
less.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected storm water, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a STORM DRAIN.
   STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or man-made, used for
conducting storm water to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
   UNIMPROVED.  A parcel that has no impervious surface.
(Ord. 082018, passed 8-20-18)
§ 53.22 SCHEDULE OF USER FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   A stormwater service charge shall be imposed on each and every lot and
parcel of land within the city, which charge shall be assessed against the
property owner thereof, who shall be considered the user for the purposes of
this chapter. This charge is deemed reasonable and is necessary to pay for the
all expenses incidental to the operation of the works, including legal
expenses, maintenance costs, operating charges, repairs, lease rentals, and
interest charges on bonds or other obligations, to provide a sinking fund
required by IC 36-9-23-21, to provide adequate money to be used as working
capital, and to provide adequate money for improving and replacing the works.
   (B)   Charge per ERU. The stormwater service charge shall be $6.66 per ERU
per month. Any billings for stormwater service outside this time shall be on a
per diem basis.
   (C)   Basis of charge. The stormwater service charge is a flat charge
designed to recover the cost of rendering stormwater service to the users of
the stormwater drainage system, and shall be the basis for assessment of the
stormwater service charge.
   (D)   Classification of property. All properties within the city municipal
boundaries will be assigned an equivalent residential unit (ERU), or a multiple
thereof, based on the costs, including capital expenditures, of furnishing
services to each property, with all properties having a rate assignment as
follows:
      (1)   Residential improved. A monthly flat rate charge for stormwater
service rendered to residential improved properties in the amount of one
equivalent residential unit (ERU) equating to a rate of $6.66 per month.
      (2)   Non-residential improved. The monthly user fee for nonresidential
improved properties will be determined using an ERU multiplier, which will be
calculated by dividing the total impervious surface within the property by the
base ERU of 3,318 square feet and then multiplying by $6.66 per ERU per month.
      (3)   Condominium. The monthly user fee for condominiums shall be 0.60
times the residential improved rate of $6.66, or $4.00 per month.
      (4)   Unimproved. The monthly user fee for unimproved properties shall be
one-third the residential improved rate of $6.66, or $2.22 per month.
      (5)   Small non-residential. The monthly user fee for unimproved
properties shall be one-third the residential improved rate of $6.66, or $2.22
per month.
   (E)   Property classifications. Property classifications shall occur once
per year and shall not be prorated. Property classification shall be updated
based upon best available data at the time of classification, including but not
limited to aerial photography, county property type use, site knowledge, etc.
   (F)   Exceptions/exemptions. Except for public rights-of-way, city-owned
properties, railroad lines, and paths that are eight feet wide or less with
five feet of vegetation space on each side, there shall be no exceptions or
exemptions from the assignment of stormwater ERUs and charges for any property.
(Ord. 082018, passed 8-20-18)
§ 53.23 BILLING; PAYMENT.
   (A)   Billings. All stormwater bills shall be rendered on a yearly basis to
the property, except for non-residential properties may be billed on a monthly
or quarterly basis at the discretion of the Controller's Office.
   (B)   Terms of payment. The stormwater service charges prescribed in §
53.22 shall be due on the payment date set out on the bill. It shall be a
violation of this chapter to fail to pay a stormwater service bill when due.
All bills for stormwater services not paid on or before the due date, which due
date shall be approximately 30 days after the bill is rendered, shall be
subject to a collection or deferred payment charge of 10% on outstanding
balance.
   (C)   Collection. Delinquent charges for stormwater services, 10% penalty,
recording fees and service charges may be made a lien upon the property when
the delinquent party is the property owner and may be collected in accordance
with the provisions of IC 36-9-23. In addition, the city may recover the amount
of the charges for services, 10% penalty and reasonable attorney's fees in a
civil action and may foreclose liens established by this chapter in accordance
with IC 36-9-23.
(Ord. 082018, passed 8-20-18)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for violations.
      (1)   Any person found in violation of any provision of §
53.01 shall be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a maximum fine
of $2,500 for a first offense, and a maximum of $7,500 for a subsequent
offense, plus costs, damages, and expenses. Each day such violation occurs or
continues shall be deemed a separate offense and shall make the violator liable
for the imposition of a fine for each day. For purposes of this section,
SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of the provisions of §
53.01 committed by the same person within 12 months of a previous violation of
the same provision of §
53.01 for which said person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be
responsible. The rights and remedies provided for in this section are
cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law. An admission
or determination of responsibility shall not exempt the offender from
compliance with the requirements of this
Chapter 53.
      (2)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of §
53.01 shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
   (B)   Stop work order.
      (1)   In addition to the penalties listed above, if land disturbance or
impact activities are conducted contrary to the provisions of §
53.01 or accepted final stormwater management plans, the Director of Public
Works or his designee may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on
any person engaged in the doing or causing of such work to be done, and any
such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Director of
Public Works or his designee to proceed with the work. The Director of Public
Works or his designee may also undertake or cause to be undertaken, any
necessary or advisable protective measures to prevent violations of §
53.01 or to avoid or reduce the effects of noncompliance herewith. The cost of
any such protective measures shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
property upon which the work is being done and the responsibility of any person
carrying out or participating in the work.
      (2)   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work order
shall be subject to a fine or injunction or both and such person shall also pay
such costs as may be imposed in the discretion of the court. A permit
reinstatement fee may be assessed by the Director of Public Works.
   (C)   Failure to comply or complete. In addition to any other remedies,
should any owner fail to comply with the provisions of §
53.01, the Director of Public Works, or his designee may, after giving notice
and opportunity for compliance, have the necessary work completed on the
property, and the owner shall be required to promptly reimburse the City of
Fishers for all costs of such work. Such costs may be pursued in court and/or
filed as a lien against the property as allowed by state law.
   (D)   Suspension of access to the storm drain system.
      (1)   Suspension due to emergency situations. The Director of Public
Works, or his designee may, without prior notice, suspend stormwater drainage
system discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop
an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and
substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons,
or to the stormwater drainage system or waters of the United States. If the
violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the
Director of Public Works, or his designee may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the stormwater drainage system or
waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
      (2)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the stormwater drainage system in violation of §
53.01 may have their stormwater drainage system access terminated if such
termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The Director of Public
Works, or his designee will notify a violator of the proposed termination of
its MS4 access. The violator may petition the Board of Public Works and Safety
for a reconsideration and hearing pursuant to §
53.99(F).
   (E)   Corrective action. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city
from taking such other lawful action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy
any violation. All costs connected therewith shall accrue to the person or
persons responsible. Costs include, but are not limited to, repairs to the
stormwater drainage system made necessary by the violation, as well as those
penalties levied by the EPA or IDEM for violation of the City of Fishers NPDES
permit, attorney fees, and other costs and expenses.
   (F)   Appeals. Pursuant to IC 36-1-6-9, this 53 may be enforced by a
proceeding before the Board of Public Works and Safety. Any person adversely
affected by an action taken pursuant to this section may, not later than 15
days after the date of action, submit a written notice of appeal to the Board
of Public Works and Safety, Such appeal shall identify the matter being
appealed, and the basis for the appeal. The Board of Public Works and Safety
shall consider the appeal and make a decision whereby it affirms, rejects or
modifies the action being appealed. In considering any such appeal, the Board
of Public Works and Safety may consider the recommendations of the Director of
Public Works, the Director of Engineering, or designee and the comments of
other persons having knowledge of the matter. In considering any such appeal,
the Board of Public Works and Safety may grant a variance from the terms of
this chapter to provide relief, in whole or in part, from the action being
appealed, but only upon finding that the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The application of the chapter provisions being appealed will
present or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the chapter; and
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater runoff.
(Ord. 071618B, passed 7-16-18)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
73.   BICYCLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Application of regulations
   
70.03   Definitions
   
70.04   Obedience to Traffic Code required
   
70.05   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
70.06   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.07   Pushcarts upon roadways
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Authority to install
   
70.16   Manual and specifications for traffic-control devices
   
70.17   When required for enforcement purposes
   
70.18   Presumption of legality
   
70.19   Temporary placement of traffic-control devices
   
70.20   Designating crosswalks; establishing safety zones
   
70.21   Indicating traffic lanes
Vehicle Inspections
   
70.30   Fee for inspection
   
70.31   Vehicle inspection fund; appropriations
Enforcement and Administration
   
70.40   Duties of Police Department
   
70.41   Authority of enforcement officials
   
70.42   Notice of violation
   
70.43   Disposition of traffic fine and forfeiture
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This Title VII may be known and cited as the Traffic Code of the city.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 70.02 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this Title VII, relating to the operation of vehicles,
refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon streets and highways except
where a different place is specifically referred to in a given section.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85)
§ 70.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following words and phrases, when used in this Title VII, shall
for the purpose of this Title VII have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in this section, except when the context otherwise requires.
   (B)   Whenever any words and phrases used herein are not defined herein but
are defined in the state laws regulating the operation of vehicles, then such
definition therein shall be deemed to apply to such words and phrases used
herein, except when the context otherwise required.
   BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS AND SAFETY. The Board of Public Works and Safety of
the city authorized pursuant to IC 39-9-6 and 36-8-3 et seq.
   COUNCIL.  The City Council of Fishers, Indiana.
   LOADING ZONE. A space reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers or property.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
city.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Municipal Police Department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
031615B, passed 3-16-15)
§ 70.04 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful and an infraction for any person to do any act forbidden or
fail to perform any act required in this chapter.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles
owned or operated by the United States, this state or any county, city,
district, or any other political subdivision of the state, subject to such
specific exceptions as are set forth in this chapter or in the state vehicle
code.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 70.06 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may park or
stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Traffic Code.
   (B)   The foregoing provision shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to park or stand with due regard for the safety
of all persons, nor shall such provision protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85)
§ 70.07 PUSHCARTS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart upon a roadway shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver
of a vehicle by this chapter and by the rules of the road portion of the state
vehicle code, except those provisions which by their very nature can have no
application.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall have placed and maintained
official traffic-control devices and may place and maintain such additional
official traffic-control devices as the Board may deem necessary to regulate,
warn or guide traffic under the traffic ordinances of this city or the state
vehicle code.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
031615B, passed 3-16-15)
§ 70.16 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to the
“Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways”
prepared by the Indiana State Highway Commission. All signs and signals
required hereunder for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be
uniform to type and location throughout the city. All traffic-control devices
so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this
chapter shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 70.17 WHEN REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   No provision of this Traffic Code for which official traffic-control devices
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and
place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a
particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85)
§ 70.18 PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed by the Board of
Public Works and Safety in position approximately conforming to the
requirements of this Traffic Code, such devices shall be presumed to have been
so placed by the official act or direction of lawful authority, unless the
contrary shall be established by competent evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic-control devices placed pursuant to the provisions
of this Traffic Code and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements
pertaining to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of
this Traffic Code, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 031615B, passed 3-16-15)
§ 70.19 TEMPORARY PLACEMENT OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Police Chief may authorize the temporary placing of official traffic-
control devices when required by an emergency. The Police Chief shall notify
the Board of Public Works and Safety of his action as soon thereafter as is
practicable.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 100798B, passed 10-21-98; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 031615B, passed 3-16-15)
§ 70.20 DESIGNATING CROSSWALKS; ESTABLISHING SAFETY ZONES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized by duly adopted
resolution to designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks, or lines
upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in the
opinion of the Board of Public Works and Safety there is particular danger to
pedestrians crossing the roadway, and establish safety zones of such kind and
character at such other places as the Board of Public Works and Safety may deem
necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
031615B, passed 3-16-15)
§ 70.21 INDICATING TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized by duly adopted
resolution to have agents mark traffic lanes upon the roadway of any street or
highway where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
031615B, passed 3-16-15)
VEHICLE INSPECTIONS
§ 70.30 FEE FOR INSPECTION.
   There is hereby established a fee for the conduct of vehicle inspection
pursuant to state law by police officers of the city and said fee shall be in
the amount of $5 per inspection.
(Ord. 061588A, passed 7-1-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 70.31 VEHICLE INSPECTION FUND; APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   There is hereby established pursuant to IC 9-17-1 et seq. a Special
Vehicle Inspection Fund to be maintained by the Controller separate and apart
from all other funds of the city.
   (B)   Appropriations from the Fund shall be made only for law enforcement
purposes upon application to the Controller and approval of the Public Works
and Safety Board.
(Ord. 061588A, passed 7-1-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
                  
Editor's Note:
IC 9-1-2-1 was repealed by P.L. 2-1991, effective July 1,1991. The subject
matter in repealed IC 9-1-2-1 is now covered by IC 9-17-1 et seq. enacted by
P.L. 2-1991.
ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 70.40 DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF.
   In addition to his other activities, it shall be the duty of the Police
Chief to enforce the street traffic regulations of this city and all state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in this city; to make arrests for
traffic violations; to investigate all traffic accidents and make reports on a
standard accident report form; to maintain a standard system of filing accident
records and records of all arrests and warnings; to cooperate with other
officers of the city in the administration of the traffic laws and in
developing ways to improve traffic conditions; to file an annual report with
the Board of Public Works and Safety concerning the number of traffic
accidents, the number of moving violations and parking violation arrests, and
other data on the traffic activities of his office and to carry out those
duties specially imposed upon said office by this Traffic Code.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 100798B, passed 10-21-98; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 031615B, passed 3-16-15)
§ 70.41 AUTHORITY OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice,
hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of
a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
the Police Chief may direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding
the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist police officials in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 100798B, passed 10-21-98)
§ 70.42 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever a person is charged with a violation of this Traffic Code, he
shall be given notice of such charge by an appropriate notice served personally
or placed in or upon a vehicle stopped or parked in violation of any provision
hereof.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the Police Chief or other duly constituted
officers, any person charged with violating this chapter is about to leave the
jurisdiction, such officer may institute action forthwith before a court of
law, magistrate or judge for the collection of such fine and penalty.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 100798B, passed 10-21-98)
§ 70.43 DISPOSITION OF TRAFFIC FINE AND FORFEITURE.
   All traffic fines and forfeitures collected by the Controller shall be
deposited in the general fund.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the provisions set forth in §§
70.40 through
70.43, and
72.40 and
72.41, the following shall apply:
   (A)   Each violator of the restrictions and provisions of this Traffic Code
on stopping, standing, parking and pedestrian offenses, shall pay a fine and
penalty to the city in the sum and amount §
36.08 if paid within 30 business days of the time of issuance. If the fine is
not paid within 30 days from the date of violation, the fine will double the
original fine, unless otherwise specified in this chapter and the violation may
be docketed in the Fishers City Court.
   (B)   Each violator of any other provision of this Traffic Code shall pay a
fine and penalty to the city not to exceed $500 for each such violation. All
such violations shall be immediately docketed in the City Court of Fishers and
made subject to the costs imposed thereon for class A infractions in addition
to the fine imposed by the court having jurisdiction thereof in accordance with
this provision.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 061588C, passed 6-15-88; Am. Ord.
061792A, passed 6-17-92; Am. Ord. 121806B, passed 1-16-07; Am. Ord. 121068,
passed - -07; Am. Ord. 090611, passed 9-6-11; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-
14; Am. Ord. 101617H, passed 10-16-17)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Rules of Operation
   
71.01   Intersections; stop, yield and signalized
   
71.02   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.03   Turning movements
   
71.04   Limitation on backing
   
71.05   Parades and processions
   
71.06   Driving through parade or other procession
Speed Regulations
   
71.15   State law applicable
   
71.16   Establishment of speed limits on certain streets
   
71.17   Construction zone speed limits
   
71.18   School zones
   
71.19   Residential or neighborhood streets
Prohibitions
   
71.20   Use of toy vehicles
Pedestrians
   
71.30   Running, jogging or walking on roadway
Operation of Motor Vehicles and Bicycles in Roadways, Multi-use Paths,
Sidewalks and Bicycle Lanes
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Motor vehicle responsibilities
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Bicycles, see
Ch. 73
RULES OF OPERATION
§ 71.01 INTERSECTIONS; STOP, YIELD AND SIGNALIZED.
   (A)   Those streets, parts of streets, stop intersections, yield
intersections, and signalized intersections described in Chapter 74
Schedules I,
II and
V, as from time to time amended by duly adopted resolution of the Board of
Public Works and Safety, are hereby declared to be through streets, stop
intersections, yield intersections, or signalized intersections for the purpose
of this section.
   (B)   The intersections described in Chapter 74
Schedules I,
II and
V as from time to time amended by duly adopted resolution of the Board of
Public Works and Safety, are declared to merit the need for stop signs, yield
signs, or traffic signals. When a sign or signal is erected giving notice
thereof, a driver of a vehicle shall obey the respective sign or signal before
entering any of the streets and parts of streets described therein.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 090611A, passed 9-6-11; Am. Ord. 031615B,
passed 3-16-15)
§ 71.02 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated by
the city from time to time by duly adopted resolution, vehicular traffic shall
move only in the indicated direction when proper signs indicating the direction
of traffic are erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in
the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized by duly
adopted resolution to determine those intersections at which drivers of
vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn, and shall place proper signs
at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between
certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns
are permitted.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed
in the opposite direction upon any street in a zoned business district.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
031615B, passed 3-16-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 LIMITATION ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 PARADES AND PROCESSIONS.
   No procession or parade containing 200 or more persons or 25 or more
vehicles except the Armed Forces of the United States, the military forces of
this state and the forces of the Police and Fire Departments, shall occupy,
march or proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit issued by
the Police Chief, and such other regulations as are set forth herein which may
apply.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 022091E, passed 3-6-91; Am. Ord. 100798B,
passed 10-21-98) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 DRIVING THROUGH PARADE OR OTHER PROCESSION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between any vehicles comprising a parade
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated. This provision shall not apply at intersections
where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals or police officers.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 022091E, passed 3-6-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 71.15 STATE LAW APPLICABLE.
   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within this city, except as this city, as authorized by state
law, hereby declares and determines upon the basis of engineering and traffic
investigations that certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon
specified streets or in certain areas, in which event it shall be unlawful for
any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so declared by
this city when proper signs are in place.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-8; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 71.16 ESTABLISHMENT OF SPEED LIMITS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   Upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, maximum speed
limits are hereby determined and declared reasonable and safe on the streets,
or parts of streets, described in Chapter 74,
Schedule III, as from time to time amended by duly adopted resolution of the
Board of Public Works and Safety, when signs are erected giving notice thereof.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
031615B, passed 3-16-15)
§ 71.17 CONSTRUCTION ZONE SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The Fishers Department of Engineering and Public Works or its designee
is authorized to post a speed limit less than the maximum speed limits listed
in Chapter 74,
Schedule III of this Traffic Code, as from time to time amended by duly adopted
resolution of the Board of Public Works and Safety, for any roadway or adjacent
area that is under construction.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any motorist to exceed the reduced speed
limit on a roadway under construction, provided signs are erected that give
motorists reasonable notice of the construction and the reduced speed limit.
(Ord. 051313, passed 5-13-13; Am. Ord. 031615B, passed 3-16-15)
§ 71.18 SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is authorized to determine
maximum speed limits on streets or parts of streets in school zones, which are
in the immediate vicinity of any school located within the city's corporate
boundaries during the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on days school is in
session.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle in excess of
the posted speed limit within a school zone during the following times:
      (1)   As posted within the designated school zones per
Chapter 74, Schedule III.
      (2)   At any other time when yellow flashing lights are operating near a
sign designating a school zone.
(Ord. 071618A, passed 7-16-18)
§ 71.19 RESIDENTIAL OR NEIGHBORHOOD STREETS.
   Upon the basis of an engineering and/or traffic investigation, if necessary,
maximum speed limits are hereby determined and declared reasonable and safe on
the streets, or parts of streets, described in
Chapter 74, Schedule III(C), as from time to time amended by duly adopted
resolution of the Board of Public Works and Safety, when signs are erected
giving notice thereof.
(Ord. 091619A, passed 9-16-19)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.20 USE OF TOY VEHICLES.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar devise, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 022091E, passed 3-6-91) Penalty, see §
70.99
PEDESTRIANS
§ 71.30 RUNNING, JOGGING OR WALKING ON ROADWAY.
   Running, jogging, or walking in a roadway where a sidewalk has been provided
is prohibited. Running, jogging or walking in a roadway without a sidewalk is
permitted provided that the following requirements are met:
   (A)   Pedestrian must stay within 2 feet, 0 inches of pavement edge;
   (B)   Pedestrian's direction of travel must oppose that of the vehicular
traffic in that lane.
   (C)   No person shall directly or indirectly, upon any street, public place
or park in the city, solicit alms or gratuities; or seek donations by silent or
vocal appeal to sympathy through attention to physical or mental infirmities of
such person or of another person; or seek donations by means of music, singing,
selling small articles or any other aids or devices to accomplish such purpose.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 041502, passed 4-15-02; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES AND BICYCLES IN ROADWAYS,
  MULTI-USE PATHS, SIDEWALKS AND BICYCLE LANES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
   BICYCLE LANE.  That portion of a roadway or roadway shoulder that has been
designated by striping, signing and pavement markings for the preferential or
exclusive use of a bicycle.
   BICYCLIST.  A person operating a bicycle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is propelled in whole or in part by a motor
or any mechanical or artificial means, or is being pushed or towed by the same.
   MULTI-USE PATH. An off-road public accessway intended for pedestrians,
bicyclists, and other non-motorized users.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. A walkway as defined in IC 9-13-2-167, as may be amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 052118E, passed 7-16-18)
§ 71.41 MOTOR VEHICLE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Drivers to exercise due care. The driver of any motor vehicle
operating on arty roadway located within the city's corporate limits shall
exercise due care to avoid colliding with any person operating a bicycle, and
shall, as necessary, give warning by the sounding of a horn and by exercising
such other precautions as are necessary to avoid a motor vehicle and bicycle
collision.
   (B)   Turning right in front of a bicycle. When a motor vehicle and a
bicycle are traveling in the same direction on or along any roadway located
within the city's corporate limits, the operator of the motor vehicle
overtaking such bicycle shall not turn to the right in front of the bicycle
until the motor vehicle is safely ahead and clear of the bicycle.
   (C)   Turning left in front of a bicycle. The driver of a motor vehicle
operating within the city's corporate limits shall, when entering an
intersection with the intention of turning left therein, yield the right-of-way
to a bicycle approaching the intersection from the opposite direction whenever
a failure to do so would cause the approaching bicycle to strike the motor
vehicle or to engage in evasive actions in order to avoid such a collision.
   (D)   Passing of bicycles. The driver of any motor vehicle operating within
the city's corporate limits, whenever passing a bicycle proceeding in the same
direction on any roadway, shall maintain at all times a distance of not less
than three feet from said bicycle during the entire passing maneuver.
   (E)   Operating on roadways that contain a bicycle lane. The driver of any
motor vehicle operating within the city's corporate limits shall, when
traveling on a roadway that contains a designated bicycle lane, yield the
right-of-way to all persons operating bicycles on and within said bicycle lane.
   (F)   Turning on roadways with bicycle lanes. The driver of any motor
vehicle operating within the city's corporate limits shall, when traveling on a
roadway that contains a designated bicycle lane, enter the bicycle lane to make
a turn only after yielding to all persons operating a bicycle on and within
said bicycle lane and only when doing so will not cause any bicyclist to
collide with the motor vehicle or to take evasive actions that impede the
bicycle's forward progress in order to avoid such a collision.
   (G)   Driving on bicycle lanes and multi-use path. No driver of any motor
vehicle shall drive or park said motor vehicle in, on, or upon any designated
bicycle lane or multi-use path, or otherwise impede any bicycle operating on
and within a bicycle lane or multi-use path within the city's corporate limits
except when safely entering or exiting a legal parking space, driveway, or
roadway as necessary, and then only after yielding to all persons operating a
bicycle on or within said bicycle lane or multi-use path and when doing so will
not cause any bicyclist to collide with the motor vehicle or to take evasive
actions that impede its forward progress in order to avoid such a collision.
(Ord. 052118E, passed 7-16-18) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of §§
71.16,
71.17,
71.18 or
71.19 is a Class C Infraction punishable by a fine up to $500 for each such
violation. All such violations shall be immediately docketed in the City Court
of Fishers and made subject to the costs imposed thereon for Class C
infractions in addition to the fine imposed by the court having jurisdiction
thereof in accordance with this provision.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
71.20,
71.30, and §§
71.40 et seq. shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in §
70.99.
(Ord. 052118E, passed 7-16-18; Am. Ord. 091619A, passed 9-16-19)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   Angle parking
Stopping, Standing or Parking Prohibited in Specified Places
   
72.10   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
72.11   Parking in alleys
   
72.12   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.13   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited
   
72.14   Temporary parking
   
72.15   Parking in fire lanes
   
72.16   Handicap parking
Restriction on Stopping, Standing and Parking
   
72.20   Application of regulations
   
72.21   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
72.22   Parking prohibited during certain hours on certain streets and parking
facilities
   
72.23   Parking time limited on certain streets
   
72.24   Parking signs required
Loading and Unloading Zones
   
72.30   Designation of loading zones
   
72.31   Standing in loading zone
   
72.32   Public carrier stops and stands
   
72.33   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
   
72.34   Truck parking restrictions
Enforcement
   
72.99   Penalty
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety shall determine upon what streets
angle parking shall be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, but such
angle parking shall not be indicated upon any state highway within this city
unless the Indiana State Highway Commission has determined that angle parking
shall be permitted.
   (B)   On those streets which have been signed or marked by the Board of
Public Works and Safety for angle parking, no person shall park or stand a
vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the roadway indicated by
such signs or markings.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
031615B, passed 3-16-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES
§ 72.10 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley,
in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 18
feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Parallel parking required. A vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway
where there is an adjacent curb must be stopped or parked with the right-hand
wheels of the vehicle parallel with and within 12 inches of the right-hand
curb. A motorcycle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an adjacent
curb may be stopped or parked with the rear wheel of the motorcycle to the curb
and with the front tire facing the flow.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 081924B, passed 8-19-24) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.11 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than 18 feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.12 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized, upon duly
adopted resolution, to erect signs indicating no parking upon either or both
sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such parking would, in
the Board of Public Works and Safety’s opinion, interfere with traffic or
create a hazardous situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side
of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no person
shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
031615B, passed 3-16-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.13 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle and/or trailer which has been
or may be pulled by a vehicle except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a police officer
or traffic-control officer, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of or immediately opposite a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or of a crosswalk at an
intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
that entrance (when properly signposted); or
   (I)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
   (J)   Recreational vehicles and/or trailers which may be pulled by vehicles
containing towable objects such as boats, other motors vehicles, and the like,
shall not be parked on a public right-of-way located within the corporate
limits of the city continuously for 72 hours or longer. Such vehicles and/or
trailers as described above shall not thereafter be returned to the public
right-of-way for a period of not less than 30 days from the date upon which it
has been relocated.
   (K)   Non-resident recreational vehicles may be parked in a front yard or a
driveway or in the right-of- way unless otherwise prohibited, including
connection to any appropriate utilities for a period not to exceed ten days per
month.
   (L)   The owner of a recreational vehicle or a trailer which may be attached
to a vehicle shall not park or store such vehicle or trailer in such a manner
as to create a dangerous or unsafe condition on the property or in the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 101899, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.14 TEMPORARY PARKING.
   Parking may be temporarily limited or prohibited from time to time for
special occasions and to meet emergencies upon authority of the Police Chief,
who is hereby given authority for such limitation and prohibition of parking
and all vehicles shall observe such prohibition and limitations when proper
signs have been erected or placed indicating such prohibition, and the
violation thereof shall be subject to the penalties heretofore or hereafter
provided.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 100798B, passed 10-21-98) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.15 PARKING IN FIRE LANES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, driver or operator of any vehicle
to park or stop such vehicle or to permit such vehicle to be parked or to stand
at any time, or to place any other personal property found to be obstructing a
fire lane and he or she shall be cited by any law enforcement officer with
jurisdiction or Fire Department personnel.
   (B)   In addition, any vehicle or other personal property may be towed away
upon the request of any law enforcement officer or Fire Department personnel
having jurisdiction. The owner of the vehicle or personal property shall be
liable for all tow-in and resulting storage charges.
   (C)   The Fire Department, shall, to the greatest extent feasible, inspect
the area surrounding all buildings in which the public would have access, and
the Fire Chief, or his or her designee, shall determine and establish the
emergency vehicle lanes and notify the property owners affected therein in
writing.
   (D)   Fire lanes shall be established and marked as follows:
      (1)   Fire lanes shall be 12 feet from the sidewalk, driveway, service
area or areas immediately adjacent to any building or structure deemed
necessary by the Fire Chief, or his or her designee.
      (2)   Where acceptable, the pavement of the fire (emergency) lane shall
be marked with the words “No Parking Fire Lane” in large visible letters and a
stripe of no less than four inches in width installed 12 feet from the
sidewalk, curb or other items adjacent to the building in question. The words
“No Parking Fire Lane” shall be between the stripe and the sidewalk, curb or
other item adjacent to the building.
      (3)   All curbs striping and language required on pavement shall be
marked in yellow coloration with paint or other types of substances that may be
approved by the Fire Chief, or his or her designee; and,
      (4)   Signs stating “No Parking Fire Lane” meeting the Indiana Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices shall be installed no less than every 30 feet
apart.
   (E)   The Fire Chief, or his or her designee, may, in designating fire
lanes, determine that portions of those lanes, because of the location of
hydrants, standpipes or other fire prevention devices or because of the
necessities for ingress and egress, that any blockage constitutes a fire
hazard.
   (F)   Areas so determined shall be designated “tow-away zones” and shall be
so marked and posted. Any vehicle parked in such zones shall be removed at the
direction of any fire official or police officer.
(Ord. 041791C, passed 5-15-91; Am. Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18)
§ 72.16 HANDICAP PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DRIVER. It is the intent of this subchapter to define a driver as the
person that is operating or has the care, custody or control of the motor
vehicle at the time of this violation.
      HANDICAP PARKING SPACE. Any space contained within a public parking area
that is clearly designated by signs either vertically and/or horizontally,
reserved for parking a motorized vehicle containing a physically disabled
person.
      PUBLIC PARKING. Any area that is accessible from a public street, which
is by design and/or construction, used primarily for the purpose of parking
motor vehicles.
   (B)   (1)   Any driver who parks a motor vehicles which does not have
displayed a placard or a registration plate of a person with a physical
disability or a disabled veteran, issued under IC 9-18-18, IC 9-18-22 or under
the laws of another state, in a parking space specifically reserved for persons
with a physical disability, is in violation of this section.
      (2)   Any driver who parks a motor vehicle in a parking space reserved
for a person with a physical disability that is not transporting a physically
disabled person at that time is in violation of this section, regardless of IC
9-18-18 or IC 9-18-22.
   (C)   (1)   This section shall be enforced by all persons empowered by the
Police Chief to enforce local ordinances, and a person enforcing this ordinance
may issue a complaint and summons for a violation as allowed by IC 5-16-9-10.
      (2)   It shall not be a defense that the vehicle was unattended at the
time of this violation. If the vehicle is unattended at the time of the
violation, the responsibility rests solely on the registered owner of the
vehicle regardless of who was operating the vehicle at the time of the
violation.
      (3)   If the vehicle is registered to a business or corporation, at the
time of the violation, the responsibility rests on the assigned driver of the
vehicle. If it cannot be readily determined who was the assigned driver of the
vehicle at the time of the violation, the responsibility rests solely with the
CEO (Chief Executive Officer) or the person responsible for vehicle
assignments.
      (4)   If the vehicle is registered to a leasing company or a rental
company and the driver cannot be readily determined at the time of the
violation, the responsibility rests with the leasing agent or rental agent.
(Ord. 042094, passed 5-4-94; Am. Ord. 100798B, passed 10-21-98)
RESTRICTION ON STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
§ 72.20 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this section prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85)
§ 72.21 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets described in
Chapter 75 Schedule I, as amended from time to time by the Board of Public
Works and Safety.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 031615B, passed 3-16-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.22 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS ON CERTAIN STREETS AND PARKING
FACILITIES.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
between the hours specified in
Chapter 75, Schedule I, as from time to time amended by duly adopted resolution
of the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 031615B, passed 3-16-15; Am. Ord.
101617H, passed 10-16-17; Am. Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.23 PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
for longer than the time specified in
Chapter 75 Schedule II as from time to time amended by duly adopted resolution
of the Board of Public Works and Safety, of any day except Sundays and public
holidays within the district at locations described in
Chapter 75 Schedule II as amended by the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 031615B, passed 3-16-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.24 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   No prohibition, regulation or limitation relating to stopping, standing or
parking imposed under §
72.22 or §
72.23 shall be effective unless official traffic control devices or signs are
erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense and it shall be the
duty of the Board of Public Works and Safety to see that such devices or signs
are erected and maintained.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
031615B, passed 3-16-15; Am. Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18)
LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES
§ 72.30 DESIGNATION OF LOADING ZONES.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized by duly adopted
resolution to determine the location of loading zones and shall have placed and
maintained appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this section are applicable.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
031615B, passed 3-16-15)
§ 72.31 STANDING IN LOADING ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick-up
and loading of property in any place described in
Chapter 75 Schedule III as from time to time amended by duly adopted resolution
of the Board of Public Works and Safety and marked as a loading zone during
hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case
shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may stop temporarily at a loading zone for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when
such stopping does not interfere with any vehicle which is waiting to enter or
about to enter such zone to load or unload property.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 031615B, passed 3-16-15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.32 PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   The Board of Public Works and Safety is hereby authorized by duly adopted
resolution and required to establish bus stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and
stands for other passenger common-carrier motor vehicles on such public streets
in such places and in such number as it shall determine to be of the greatest
benefit and convenience to the public, and every such bus stop, bus stand,
taxicab stand or other stand shall be designated by appropriate signs.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
031615B, passed 3-16-15)
§ 72.33 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand
has been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver
of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping
does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter
such zone.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.34 TRUCK PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   Except for the purpose of loading or unloading, it is unlawful to park or
leave standing any commercial vehicle, truck, trailer or semitrailer that
weighs 10,000 pounds or more, except in a designated industrial zone or in a
designated loading area in the following locations:
   (A)   On any highway, street, road, alley or private property within any
residential district within the city;
   (B)   On any vacant lot or unimproved property in the city;
   (C)   Within any commercially zoned property for any purpose other than
doing business at the site, or for any purpose not related to such business
operation, or remaining parked or standing for longer than two hours to do such
business or acts related to such business operations;
   (D)   On any property, so that any such vehicle is within 15 feet of the
public sidewalk, or of a public or private roadway edge; and
   (E)   On any alley within the city.
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
121718G, passed 12-17-18) Penalty, see §
70.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the Fishers
Police Department. Each violator of the restrictions and provisions of this
chapter shall pay a fine to the city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau in the sum
and amount set forth in §
36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action may be filed by the
City Attorney’s office in the City Court.
   (B)   In addition thereto, whenever, in the opinion of the Police
Department, a stopping, standing or parked vehicle in violation of the
provisions of this chapter constitutes an immediate hazard to the safety of the
citizens of the city, the Police Department may have said vehicle towed from
such position of danger to a containment area and the expense of such towing
and storage, if any, shall be borne by the registered owner of said vehicle.
(Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Bicyclist responsibilities
   
73.03   Responsibility of parent or guardian
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Motor vehicle responsibilities as to bicycles, see §
71.41
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Any foot-propelled vehicle, irrespective of the number of wheels in
contact with the ground.
   BICYCLE LANE.  That portion of a roadway or roadway shoulder that has been
designated by striping, signing and pavement markings for the preferential or
exclusive use of a bicycle.
   BICYCLIST.  A person operating a bicycle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any vehicle that is propelled in whole or in part by a motor
or any mechanical or artificial means, or is being pushed or towed by the same.
   MULTI-USE PATH. An off-road public accessway intended for pedestrians,
bicyclists, and other non-motorized users.
   ROADWAY.  That portion of a city-owned or maintained primary or secondary
arterial street improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK.  A walkway as defined in IC 9-13-2-167, as may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 052118, passed 7-16-18)
§ 73.02 BICYCLIST RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   In addition to the responsibilities imposed on a bicyclist by IC 9-21-
11 et seq., these regulations are applicable to a bicyclist on a roadway or
multi-use path.
   (B)   Bicyclists shall obey laws. Bicyclists operating bicycles within the
city's corporation limits shall obey all traffic signals, traffic control
devices, signs, and markings upon any roadway, bicycle lane, sidewalk or multi-
use path unless otherwise directed by a police officer. Bicyclists shall not
weave in between cars and shall keep a safe distance between the bicycle and a
motor vehicle when approaching stopped motor vehicles at a red light or stop
sign.
   (C)   Riding on bicycles. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at
one time than the number for which it is designed or equipped, except that an
adult rider may carry a child securely attached in an approved child seat.
   (D)   Riding on sidewalk or multi-use path.
      (1)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk when such conduct
shall constitute a hazard to safety of pedestrians.
      (2)   The city is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person and when such signs
are in place, it shall be unlawful to violate its directive.
      (3)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk or multi-
use path, such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
   (E)   Bicycle parking.
      (1)   No person shall park any bicycle upon the traveled portion of any
roadway, multi-use path or bicycle lane.
      (2)   A bicycle located on any sidewalk shall be parked only in a rack
provided to support the bicycle, against a building, or in such other manner as
not to impede pedestrian traffic thereon.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a bicycle to deliberately
block or close a roadway intersection so as to facilitate the passage of other
bicyclists through the intersection without stopping, yielding to other
traffic, or in contravention of the traffic signals, traffic control devices,
signs, posted speed limits, or markings upon a roadway, bicycle lane, sidewalk,
or multi-use path.
(Ord. 052118E, passed 9-16-18)
§ 73.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of §
73.02.
(Ord. 052118E, passed 9-16-18)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the Fishers Police
Department. Each violator of the restrictions and provisions of this chapter
shall pay a fine to the city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau in the sum and
amount set forth in §
36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action may be filed by the
City Attorney’s office in the Fishers City Court.
(Ord. 052118E, passed 9-16-18; Am. Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
74.01   Introduction
Schedules
   
I.   Through streets and stop intersections
   
II.   Yield intersections
   
III.   Speed limits
   
IV.   One-way streets [reserved]
   
V.   Signalized intersections
   
VI.   Turning movements
§ 74.01 INTRODUCTION.
   The traffic schedules set forth herein are subject to amendment by the Board
of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 031615B, passed 3-16-15)
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
71.01 and when proper signs are erected, vehicles shall be brought to a full
stop at every intersection before entering any of the following streets or
designated sections of streets:
Street At Intersection With Res./Ord. No. Passage Date
Street              At Intersection With Res./Ord. No.       Passage Date
101st ST            Cyntheanne RD        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
104th ST            Cyntheanne RD        Res. R062822E       6-28-22
106th ST            Hawthorn RDG         Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
106th ST (E)        Hague RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
106th ST (E)        Eller RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
106th ST (E)        RR Crossing          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
106th ST (W)        Hague RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
106th ST (W)        Eller RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
106th ST (W)        RR Crossing          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
111th ST            Hoosier RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
116th ST            Ringer RD            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
118th ST            Olio RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
121st ST            Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
121st ST            Cumberland RD        Res. R080493; Res.  8-4-93;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
121st ST            Hoosier RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
126th ST            Atlantic RD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
126th ST            Cyntheanne RD        Res. R082817        9-1-17
126th ST (E)        RR Crossing          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
126th ST (W)        RR Crossing          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
131st ST            Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
131st ST            Packers AVE          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
131st ST            Mudsock Fields       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
131st ST            Olio RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
131st ST (E)        Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
131st ST (E)        Minden DR            Res. R090412        9-4-12
131st ST (E)        RR Crossing          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
131st ST (E)        Promise RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
131st ST (E)        Brooks School RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
131st ST (W)        RR Crossing          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
131st ST (W)        Lantern RD           Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
131st ST (W)        Minden DR            Res. R090412        9-4-12
131st ST (W)        Promise RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
131st ST (W)        Brooks School RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
133rd PL            Britton Park DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
134th ST            Minden DR            Ord. 021714         2-17-14
136th ST            Promise RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
136th ST (E)        Olio RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
136th ST (E)        Cyntheanne RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
136th ST (W)        N Olio RD            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
136th ST (W)        SR 238               Res. R021609D       2-16-09
141st ST            Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
141st ST            RR Crossing          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
141st ST (E)        Howe RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
141st ST (E)        Promise RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
141st ST (W)        Howe RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
141st ST (W)        Promise RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Acces RD (Sunblest  Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Farms)
Acces RD (Sunblest  Sunblest BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Farms)
Ackerley DR         Fantina LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ackerley DR         Landis BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Adam CT             Alyssa Way           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Adirondack CT (N)   Apalachian Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Adirondack CT (S)   Apalachian Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Adobe DR            Deception Pass       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Adriatic DR         Mineral LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Adriatic DR         Bubbling Brook DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Aegean RD           Gulfstream DR        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Aegean RD           Sea Star Way         Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Ailsa Craig PT      Girvan Way           Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Alamosa DR          Promise DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alamosa DR          Brunn PL             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Albatross CIR       Newburyport DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alberta ST          Awaken DR            Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Alberta ST          Whelchel DR          Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Albion CT           Beresford CT         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Aldenham BLVD       Brooks School RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alderwood CT        Bristlecone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Aleene Way (E)      Guy ST               Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Aleene Way (W)      Guy ST               Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alexander LN        Foxboro LN           Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Alexander LN        Roxbury Dr           Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Alice CT            Jennings Farm LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
All American RD     131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
All American RD (N) Courage Xing         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
All American RD (S) Courage Xing         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Allayana PL         Ardennes DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Allayana PL (N)     Andorra DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Allayana PL (S)     Andorra DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Allegiance DR       Anthem AVE           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Allegiance DR       Old Glory DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alley (Parallel to
and north of
Station ST,         Maple ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
intersects with
Lantern RD)
Alley E (Parallel   Alley (West of
to and north of     Lantern RD and
Station ST,         parallel to Maple    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
intersects with     ST)
Lantern RD)
Alley E (West of
Lantern RD and      Station ST           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
parallel to Maple
ST)
Alley W (Parallel   Alley (West of
to and north of     Lantern RD and
Station ST,         parallel to Maple    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
intersects with     ST)
Lantern RD)
Alley W (West of
Lantern RD and      Station ST           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
parallel to Maple
ST)
Allisonville RD     Orchard DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Allistair DR        Cyntheanne RD        Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Allistair DR        Roca CT              Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Alston DR           Pennington RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alston DR           Cosel Way            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alston DR           Overview DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alston DR           Olio RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alston DR (E)       Walbeck DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alston DR (E)       Cosel Way            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alston DR (W)       Walbeck DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alston DR (W)       Cosel Way            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Altamount DR        113th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Altavista CT        Thornebush LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alton CT            Woodstock Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Alvernon PL         Chandler Way         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Amber Glow CT       Glass Chimney LN     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ambergate DR        Dekoven DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ambleside DR (E)    Parkside DR          Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Ambleside DR (W)    Parkside DR          Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Ambria DR           Fieldcrest DR        Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Ambria DR           Olio RD              Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Amherst DR          Eller RD             Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Amherst DR          Stratford DR         Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Andorra DR          Ardennes DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Andreas CT          Parley LN            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Andrews PL          Fortune DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Angel Berry CIR     Bramkrist DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Annette LN          Duval DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Antone CT           Cuchara CT           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Anvil CT            Autumn Harvest DR    Res. 060894A;       6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Apalachian Way      Windswept DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Apalachian Way (S)  Mojave DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Apalachian Way (N)  Mojave DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Appel DR            Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Apple Blossom DR    Weeping Cherry DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Apple Tree CIR      Apple Tree DR        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Apple Tree DR       Northland ST         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Apple Tree DR       Apple Tree DR (W -   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
                    E)
Apple Tree DR       Orchard BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
April Rose DR       Branham DR           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Arcadia PL          Ardennes DR          Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Archer LN           116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Archipel ST         Brandy LN            Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Ardennes DR (E)     Conner Knoll PKY     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ardennes DR (W)     Conner Knoll PKY     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ari LN              Bristow LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Arielle DR          Seven Oaks DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Armada CT           Geist RD             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Arranwood LN        141st ST             Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Arranwood LN        Chisholm DR          Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Arvada PL           Pleasant View LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ascot CIR           Ely RD               Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ash Stone CT        Stonegate DR         Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Ashbury CIR         Greenway DR          Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ashcott DR          Downham DR           Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Ashland DR          Goodloe DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ashley CT           Garrick ST           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ashley LN           Hickory Woods DR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ashley PL           Garrick ST           Res. R100291;       10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ashley PL           Tufton ST            Res. R100291;       10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ashton DR           Holland DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ashton DR           Sunblest BLVD S      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ashton LN           Ashton DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ashview DR          Trailwood DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ashview DR          Huff BLVD            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ashwood DR          Huff BLVD            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ashwood DR          Trailwood DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Aspen DR            Sand Creek BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Aspen DR            Cedar DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Atlantic RD (N)     136th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Atlantic RD (S)     136th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Atwood CT           Atwood PL            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Atwood PL           Wolford DR           Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Auburn Springs CIR  Meadow Lake DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Aubrey LN           Olana DR             Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Audrie CT           Bailey Way           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Aurora CT           Meadow Lake DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Autumn Frost CIR    Moors End CIR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Autumn Harvest DR   Fountainview LN      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Autumn Harvest DR   Fishers Pointe BLVD  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(N)
Autumn Harvest DR   Fishers Pointe BLVD  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(S)
Autumn View Way     Shady Knoll DR       Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Avalon BLVD         Olio RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Avalon East DR      Ari LN               Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Avalon West DR      Oxbridge PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Avery CIR           Garrick ST           Res. R100291        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Avery Row           Tufton ST            Res. R042715        4-27-15
Avila Way           Red Fox Run          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Awaken DR           Whelchel DR          Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Ayshire DR          Girvan Way           Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Babson CT           Conner Knoll PKY     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bagham DR           Fenwick ST           Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Bahamas CIR         Sea Star Way         Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Bahamas CT          Sea Star Way         Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Bailey Way          Delaware PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Balfour RD          Sherwood Forest Way  Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Barbera Way         Mondavi DR           Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Balbo PL            Cermack Way          Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Balbo PL            Federal PL           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Balfour RD          Avon Cross Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ballew BLVD         Randall DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ballew BLVD         126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Balroyal CT         Governors LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bardolino DR        Del Webb PKY         Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Bardolino DR        Mondavi DR           Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Barnett PL          Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Barnett PL (N)      Bronson DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Barnett PL (S)      Bronson DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Barnstone CT        Driftstone DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Barons CT           Oxbridge PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Barrhill CT         Longleaf LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Barstow DR          Conner Knoll PKY     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bartlett DR         Dekoven DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bartlett DR         Ambergate DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bassette RDG        Fantina LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bassette RDG        McLarnden DR         Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Bay Willow DR       Tenbury Way          Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Baybridge Way       Waterway BLVD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Bayview CT          Fall Creek RD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Beam Ridge DR       Springstone RD       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Bears DR            B roncos DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bears Way           Raiders BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Becker CT           Bristlecone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Becketts CT         Brixton LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bedrock CT          Cobblestone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Beech DR            Oak Ridge DR         Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Beech DR            Woodgate DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bellamy CT          Mancroft DR          Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Belle Plaine BLVD   116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bellevue CIR        Forest Glade DR      Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Bellhaven DR        Luxor Chase          Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Bellhaven DR        Wendessa DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bellingham BLVD     126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bellingham BLVD     Wolverton Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bengals DR          Panthers Way         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bengals DR          Raiders BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bent Creek CT       Windward Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bentfield CT        Mancroft LN          Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Bent Grass LN (N)   135th ST             Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Bent Grass LN (S)   135th ST             Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Bentley BLVD        Ellipse PKY          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bentley BLVD        126th ST             Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bentwater LN (E)    Midnight Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bentwater LN (W)    Midnight Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Benziger CT         Moscato ST           Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Beresford CT        Sweet Briar PKY      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Berkely CIR         Garrick ST           Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Berkely CT          St. George BLVD      Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Berry Patch LN      Cool Winds Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Berry Patch LN      School House RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Berry Patch LN (N)  New Tradition TRL    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Berry Patch LN (S)  New Tradition TRL    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Betton PL           Mancroft LN          Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Bicknell CIR        Jennings Farm LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Biddle DR           Norman PL            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Biddle DR           Hurlock DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bighorn CT          Brevard DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bills AVE           Whisper Knoll DR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bills AVE           Raiders BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Birch ST            Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bird Key BLVD       Belle Plaine BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bird Key BLVD       121st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Birmingham LN       Lantern RD           Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Bittern CIR         Merlin CT            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bittersweet LN      Timber Springs DR (W Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                    - E)                 Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bittersweet LN      Timber Springs DR S  Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Black Canyon CT     Beardsley Way        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Black Hills DR (E)  Travertine Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Black Hills DR (E)  Marilyn RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Black Hills DR (W)  Travertine Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Black Hills DR (W)  Marilyn RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Black Mill Pass     Vitalize Run         Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Black Pine DR       Pine Bluff DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Black Willow LN     Grand Fir DR         Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Black Willow LN     Sedalia DR           Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Blackthorn CT       Linden CT            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Blackthorn CT       106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Blooming Orchard DR Heatherfield DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Blooming Orchard DR Blooming Orchard DR  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(E)
Blooming Orchard DR Blooming Orchard DR  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(W)
Blue Meadow DR      Hoosier RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Blue Meadow DR      Shady Meadow PL      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Blue Ribbon BLVD    E 104th ST           Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Blue Sky DR         Blue Springs LN      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Blue Springs LN     121st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Blue Springs LN     Blue Sky DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Blue Spruce DR      Conifer CT           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Blue Spruce DR      Pine Bluff DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Blueberry LN        Woodward DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Blueberry LN        Midnight Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bluegrass CT        Meadow Ridge DR      Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bluestone Way       Lightship CT         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bluestone Way       East ST              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Blush DR            Venito TRL           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bodley PL           Ashland DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bootham CLSE (E)    Sweet Briar PKY      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bootham CLSE (W)    Sweet Briar PKY      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Boothbay CT         Kittery DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Boothbay LN         Kittery DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Boston Way          Harrington LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Boston Way (N)      Brunswick DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Boston Way (S)      Brunswick DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Boulder Canyon CT   Beardsley Way        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Bowline RD          Florida RD           Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Bowline RD          Galle Way            Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Boxwood CT          Bradford Knoll DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Boysenberry DR      Orange Blossom TRL   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bradford CT         Hawthorn RDG         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bradford Knoll DR   Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bradshaw DR         Bonner CIR           Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Bradshaw DR         Dennison DR          Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Braewick CIR        Cheswick LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bramkrist DR        Howe RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brandy LN           Del Webb PKWY        Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Brangton DR         Brushfield LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brangton DR         Brooks School RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Branham DR          Pica DR              Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Branham DR          Sonnette CIR         Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Brean Way           Westmorland DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Breakers LN         Chuckwalla PL        Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Breenan CIR         Deer Bank RD         Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Brennan CT          Providence DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brevard DR          141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brevard DR          Barstow DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Briargate DR        113st ST             Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Bridgewater RD      Fall Creek RD        Res. R090412        9-4-12
Bridgewater RD (N)  Ridgeside RD         Res. R090412        9-4-12
Bridgewater RD (N)  Wayside DR           Res. R090412        9-4-12
Bridgewater RD (S)  Ridgeside RD         Res. R090412        9-4-12
Bridgewater RD (S)  Wayside DR           Res. R090412        9-4-12
Brighton CIR        Sherbourne RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brightwater DR (N)  Parkshore DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brightwater DR (N)  Plantana BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brightwater DR (N)  Youngwood LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brightwater DR (S)  Parkshore DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brightwater DR (S)  Plananta BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brightwater DR (S)  Youngwood LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brisbane DR         Barstow DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brisbane DR         Conner Knoll PKY     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bristow LN          Avalon East DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bristow LN          Avalon BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brittany Way        North Hamptom DR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brittany Way        Sherbourne RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Britton DR          131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Britton Park RD     131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Britton Park RD     141st ST             Res. R011425B       1-14-25
Britton Park RD     Trade Center DR      Res. R011425B       1-14-25
Britton Ridge RD    131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Britton Ridge RD    Whitehaven LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brixham CT          Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brixton LN          Knightsbridge LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Broad Leaf LN       Hickory Woods DR     Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Broadmoor CT        Brooks School RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Broadmoor CT        Broadmoor CT S       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bronson DR          Conner Knoll PKY     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brook Wood DR       Brook Meadow DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brookdale DR        Brookhaven DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brookfield DR       Madison Brooks DR    Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Brookhaven DR       Brooks School RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brookhaven DR       Brookdale DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brookridge CT       Knightsbridge LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brooks DR           96th ST              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brooks Edge CIR (E) Forest Meadow CIR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brooks Edge CIR (W) Forest Meadow CIR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brooks Edge LN      Backstretch Row      Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Brooks Park BLVD    104th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brooks Xing (N)     Hawthorn RDG         Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brooks Xing (S)     Hawthorn RDG         Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brookwood PL        Brookhaven DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brothers CT         Bradford Knoll DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brown Jack DR       Gallop LN            Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Brown Jack DR       Tattersalls LN       Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Brown Jack DR       Outrippers DR        Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Bruddy DR           Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brunn PL            Pleasant View LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brunn PL (N)        Veon DR              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brunn PL (S)        Veon DR              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brunswick DR        Boston Way           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brunswick DR        Fishers Pointe BLVD  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Brushfield LN       Aldenham BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bryden DR           Ashton LN            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Bryden DR           Hardwick DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Buccaneers DR       Redskins AVE         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Buckingham CT       Nottingham CT        Res. R042715        4-27-15
Bucking Horse CT    Kings Horse Way      Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Buff Stone CT       Hearthstone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Buffet PKY          Conner Knoll PKY     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Burgandy ST         Shiraz LN            Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Burning Ridge LN    Hamilton Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Burning Ridge LN    Quaker Ridge CT      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Butler LN           Keams DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Butler LN           Boulder Canyon DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cabri LN            Castleston DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cabri LN            Pine Meadow CIR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cakmanor Way        Westmorland DR       Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Cakmanor Way        Enmore Park          Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Calibouge DR        Briston LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Calibouge DR        Reflection Point DR  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Caliburn CT         Sweet Briar PKY      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Callaway CT         Hollyhock DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Calluna CT          Hawthorn RDG         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Calming Waters      Calming Waters       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cambria CT          Fenwick ST           Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Cambridge DR        Hague RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Camby Xing          Jennings Farm LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Camden CT           Stratford Way        Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cameron DR          Sunblest BLVD S      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cameron DR          116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cameron PL          Cameron DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Campolina LN        Galileo DR           Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Candice DR          Guy ST               Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cannington CIR      Westmorland DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Canonbury Way       Oxbridge PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cantor Chase Xing   Stable Stone TER     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Canyon CT (E)       Silverado DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Canyon CT (W)       Silverado DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Capulin CT          Altamount DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Carlise Way         Jennings Farm LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Carly CT            Carly PL             Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Carly PL            Bentley BLVD         Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Carnaby PL          Balbo PL             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Carney DR           North by Northwest   Res. R021609D; Res. 2-16-09; 7-11-16
                    BLVD                 R071116
Carolina CT         Plantana BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Carriage Stone DR   Brooks School RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cascades CT         Niagara DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Casco CT            Suncatcher DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Castetter CT        Randall DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Castlewood CIR      Princewood DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Catalina DR         141st ST             Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Catawba Trail       Haywood ST           Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Caterwood CIR       Staffordshire Way    Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Cava DR             Brandy LN            Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Cedar Cove LN       96th ST              Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Cedar Cove LN       Allisonville RD      Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Cedar DR            Sand Creek BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cedar DR            121st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cedarstone LN       116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cedarstone LN       114th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cellar ST           Shiraz LN            Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Centerpoint DR      Crosspoint BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Centerpoint DR      Westpoint DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cermack Way         Federal PL           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cermack Way         Glenside DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chaldean CT         Logan LN             Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Champagne ST        Del Webb PKWY        Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Champions BLVD      126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Champions BLVD      Vikings LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chandelle LN        Champagne ST         Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Chandler Way        Promise RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chandler Way        Beardsley Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chapelwood DR       Meadow Bend DR       Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Chapelwood LN       Royalwood DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chapelwood LN (E)   Princewood CT        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chapelwood LN (N)   Princewood DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chapelwood LN (S)   Princewood DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chapelwood LN (W)   Princewood DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chapelwood LN       Whispering Breeze DR Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Chargers CT         Bears DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Charleston PKY      116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Charleston PKY (N)  Jamestown DR S       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Charleston PKY (S)  Jamestown DR S       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Charleswood CT      Plantana BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chase CT            Club Chase           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cheerleaders CT     Raiders BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cherry Blossom DR E Cherry Blossom DR W  Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cherry Blossom DR E Cherry Hill BLVD     Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cherry Blossom DR W Wilderness TRL       Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cherry Blossom DR W Cherry Blossom DR E  Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cherry Blossom DR W Cherry Hill BLVD     Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cherry Hill BLVD    Wild Cherry DR       Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cherry Hill BLVD    116th ST             Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cherry Hill CT      Cherry Blossom DR E  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cherry Laurel LN    Cherry Blossom DR E  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cherry Laurel LN    Cherry Blossom DR W  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chesney DR          Bartlett DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chesney DR          Ambergate DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chestnut Hill       Chestnut Hill CIR    Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chestnut Hill       Hawthorn RDG         Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chestnut Hill CT    Chestnut Hill CIR    Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cheswick LN         Springston CT        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cheswick LN         Glenn Abbey LN       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chiefs CT           Bills AVE            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chipmunk Xing       Wilderness TRL       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chipmunk Xing       Duck Pond DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chippenham LN       Nottingham RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chiseled Stone DR   Carriage Stone DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chisholm DR         Northcoat PL         Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Chisholm DR         Palodura CT          Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Cholla RD           Wedgeport LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chorleywood CIR     Oxbridge PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Chrisfield LN       Springstone RD       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Christie Ann DR     Thor Run PL          Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Christie Ann DR (E) Madison Brooks DR    Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Christie Ann DR (W) Madison Brooks DR    Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Chuckwalla PL       Pica DR              Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Churchill CT        Crestview DR         Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Cider Mill CT       Wintercove Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cirrus DR           Gray Eagle DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cirrus DR           Witherbee LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Claret CT           Gloria DR            Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Clarinda CT         Christie Ann DR      Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Claymore DR         St. Andrews Way      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Claymore DR         Wingstem CT          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Claymount LN (E)    Fortune DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Claymount LN (W)    Fortune DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Clear Sky CT        Red Sky RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Clifford PL         141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Clifton CT          Strongbow RD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Clifty DR           Fieldcrest DR        Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Clover Hill TRCE    Whispering Breeze DR Ord. 121514; Res.   12-15-14; 1-11-16
                                         R011116A
Clove Hitch CT      Fathom LN            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cloverbank DR       Oakhurst LN          Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Clover Leaf CIR     Meadow Grass Way     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cloverfield CIR     Roy Anderson BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Club Chase (N)      Club PT              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Club Chase (S)      Club PT              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Club PT             Brooks School RD     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Club PT (E)         Hawthorn RDG         Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Club PT (N)         Club PT              Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Club PT (W)         Hawthorn RDG         Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Clubhouse DR        River Glen DR        Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Colbalt DR          Frontier ST          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Colbalt DR          Indigo LN            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Coastal PL          Nightshore LN        Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Cobblefield CT      Limestone DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cobblestone DR      Cobblestone DR (N -  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
                    S)
Cobblestone DR      Hamble BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cobblestone DR (N)  Weathered Edge DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cobblestone DR (S)  Weathered Edge DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cody LN             Blueberry LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cody LN             Woodward DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cofton BLVD         Camelot House Way    Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Cofton BLVD         Pendragon Way        Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Colbarn DR          Sunblest BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Colbarn DR          Sunblest BLVD S      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Colbarn DR          Colbarn CT           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Colbarn PL          Sunblest BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Colbarn PL          Sunset BLVD          Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Cold Springs CT     Heatherfield DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cold Springs DR     Green Blade DR       Res. R021609D; Res. 2-16-09; 12-21-18
                                         R122118C
Cold Springs DR     Heatherfield DR      Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Columbia CIR        Manchester DR        Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Commonwealth DR (E) Lockerbie LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Commonwealth DR (W) Lockerbie LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Concord LN          Timberlake LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Conifer CT          Pine Bluff DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Conner Creek DR     Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Conner Knoll PKY    Weaver Woods PL      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Conner Knoll PKY    131st ST             Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Conner Knoll PKY    141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(N)
Conner Knoll PKY    Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(N)
Conner Knoll PKY    Ardennes DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(N)
Conner Knoll PKY    141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(S)
Conner Knoll PKY    Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(S)
Conner Knoll PKY    Ardennes DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(S)
Conway CT           Covington BLVD       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cool Winds Way      School House RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Copper BLVD         141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Copper BLVD         Keams DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Copper Cove Way     Streamwood DR        Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Copper Mines Way    Smokey Quartz LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Copper Mines Way    Marilyn RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Copper Ridge DR     Backstretch Row      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Copper Ridge DR     Brooks Park BLVD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Copper Saddle BND   Stable Stone TER     Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Corbin DR           Colbarn DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Corbin DR           Sunblest BLVD S      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Corday CT           Saskons BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Corning Way         Jennings Farm LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Corona CT           Alberta ST           Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Corydon DR          Gilmour CT           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Corydon DR          Gilmour DR           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Cosel Way           Alston DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cosel Way (N)       Alston DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cosel Way (S)       Alston DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cotton Blossom DR   Brankrist DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Country Apple CT    Cotton Blossom DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Country Breeze LN   Juniper Breeze DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Country Breeze LN   Morning Song DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Coupler DR          Newburyport DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Coupler DR          113th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Courage Xing        Patriotic Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Courage Xing (E)    All American RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Courage Xing (W)    All American RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Courtney DR         Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Courtyard Way       Easy ST              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Covington BLVD      Lantern RD           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Covington BLVD      96th ST              Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Covington BLVD (E)  Woodstock Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Covington BLVD (W)  Woodstock Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cowboys CT          End Zone DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Coyote Run          Howe RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Coyote Run (N)      Pleasant View LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Coyote Run (S)      Pleasant View LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cranberry CIR       Cypress DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Craycroft CT        Gladden LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Creekridge LN       Olio RD              Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Creekside CT        Creekside DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Creekside DR        Colbarn DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Creekside LN (E)    Sunblest BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Creekside LN (W)    Sunblest BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Creektree LN        Howe RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Creektree LN (E)    Sweet Briar PKY      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Creektree LN (W)    Sweet Briar PKY      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Creekview LN (E)    Valleyview DR        Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Creekview LN (N)    Valleyview DR        Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Creekview LN (S)    Valleyview DR        Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Cressida Way        Aldenham BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cresswell PL        Pinner AVE           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crestmoor LN        104th ST             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Crestmoor LN        Keysport LNDG        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Crestridge CT       Bradford Knoll DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crestview CT        Crestview DR         Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Crestview DR        Concord LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crestview DR        116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crestview DR (N)    Home DR              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crestview DR (S)    Home DR              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crestwater CT       Streamwood DR        Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Cross Country CT    Bird Key BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crossing DR (N)     Washington Bay DR    Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Crossing PL         Fishers Crossing DR  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crosspoint BLVD     Southpoint DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crosspoint BLVD     Hague RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crosspoint COM      96th ST              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crosspoint COM      Hague RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crosspoint COMS     Crosspoint BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crosspoint COMS     Hague RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crossroads LN       121st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crosswinds DR       Woodmont LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crosswinds DR       Windermere BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crows Nest DR       Wilderness TRL       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Crystal Falls LN    Valley Springs BLVD  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cuchara CT          Acacio DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cullerton Way       Federal PL           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cultured Stone DR   Carriage Stone DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cumberland DR       Exit 5 PKY           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cumberland DR       121st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cumberland Park DR  106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cumberland Ridge LN Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cyntheanne RD       Florida RD           Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Cyntheanne RD       Southeastern PKY     Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Cyntheanne RD (N)   104th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cypress DR          Youngwood LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Cypress DR          Plantana BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Darby Dale CT       Tray Moore DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Darsley DR          Whitebridge DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Davenport DR        Mancroft DR          Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Daventry DR         Shakespear Way       Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Davis Way           Heather LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Davis Way           Tufton ST            Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dawn Run DR         Brown Jack DR        Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Dawn Run DR         Outrippers DR        Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Dawson DR           Ashton DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dawson DR           Colbarn DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Daybreak CIR        Wintercove Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dearborne CIR       Parkshore DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Decatur DR          Fall Creek RD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Deer Bank RD        Corydon DR           Res. R121321A;      12-13-21;
                                         Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Deer Bank RD        Gilmour DR           Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Deer Creek PL       Olio RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Deer Run CIR        Woodlands DR         Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Deer Stone LN       113th ST             Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Deerbrook DR        Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Deerbrook DR        Fallingbrook DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Deering ST          Knightsbridge LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Deering ST          Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dekoven DR          Clairmont DR         Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Dekoven DR          Pennington RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Del Webb PKY        Atlantic RD          Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Del Webb PKY        Del Webb PKY (W)     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Del Webb PKY        Cyntheanne RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Del Webb PKY        Del Webb Pky/Rhone   Ord. 071513         7-15-13
                    TRL
Delaney DR          Providence DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Delaney DR          Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Delaware PKY        106th ST             Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Delight Creek RD    Quail Run            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Delmore DR          McLarinden DR        Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Delmore DR          Midnight Line DR     Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Delphi CT           Jennings Farm LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Denrose DR          Sedalia DR           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Des Plains DR       Dewitt DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Descanso DR         Green Blade DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Desert Glen DR      Brooks School RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Desert Rose DR      Whelchel DR          Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Desert Rose DR      Awaken DR            Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Destry PL           Wolford DR           Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Devon CT            Lake Run DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dewitt DR           Cullerton Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dewitt DR           Federal PL           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dewpoint LN         Bay Willow DR        Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Dewpoint LN         Tenbury Way          Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Dickenson CT        Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dillon PL           Arvada PL            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dillon PL           Granite Ridge CIR    Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Diving Hawk Xing    Soaring Eagle DR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Diving Hawk Xing    Wading Crane AVE     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dobbins DR (E)      Catalina DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dobbins DR (W)      Catalina DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dobbins DR          Parley CT            Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Dobbins DR          Silverbell LN        Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Dolcetto DR         Venito TRL           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dolphins DR         Packers AVE          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dolphins LN         Vikings LN           Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Doncaster CT        Aldenham BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Donnington LN       Silverstone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Donnington LN       Millen DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Donovan LN          Thornhill Run        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Doral CIR           Governors LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dorman CT           Clearly Trace DR     Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Dorster DR          Saxony BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dorster DR          Pennington BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dorster DR (E)      Minden DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dover CT            Stratford Way        Res. R110691A; Res. 11-6-91;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Downham DR          Staffordshire Way    Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Drake DR            McDowell DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Drake DR            Gladden LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dresdin CT (E)      Templin AVE          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dresdin CT (W)      Templin AVE          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dressage CT         Blue Ribbon BLVD     Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Driftstone DR       Hamble BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Driftstone DR (N)   Carriage Stone DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Driftstone DR (S)   Carriage Stone DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Drumdow LN          Girvan Way (N)       Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Drumdow LN          Girvan Way (S)       Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Duck Pond DR        Tall Trees DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Duncan DR           Silverbell LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Duncan DR           Catalina DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Dunton Way          Eastpark CIR (W)     Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Dunton Way          Lamb DR              Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Duval DR            Brooks School RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Duval DR (E)        Gray Eagle DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Duval DR (W)        Gray Eagle DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
E Bent Tree LN      Parkway DR           Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Eagles WTCH         Delight Creek RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Easterly BLVD       Lakeridge DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Eastpark CIR (E)    Hunters Run DR       Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Eastpark CIR (W)    Hunters Run DR       Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Eastwood DR         Ashwood DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Eastwood DR         Trailwood DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Easy ST             North Hampton DR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Eaton CT            Salem DR             Res. R110691A; Res. 11-6-91;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Ebbert DR           Landis BLVD          Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Eddington PL (N)    Bellingham BLVD      Res. R021609D; Res. 2-16-09; 4-27-15
                                         R042715
Eddington PL (S)    Bellingham BLVD      Res. R021609D; Res. 2-16-09; 4-27-15
                                         R042715
Edgebrook DR        Georgia RD           Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Eerie PL (N)        Des Plains DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Eerie PL (S)        Des Plains DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Effingham CT        Nottingham RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Elbe ST             Lubeck DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Elbe ST             Alston DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Eller Creek DR      Eller RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Eller Fields (Town  Eller RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Utilities Building)
Eller RD (N)        106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Eller RD (S)        106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Eller Run           Eller RD             Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Eller Run           Valleyview DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ellington DR        Florida RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ellington DR (E)    Cleary Trace DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ellipse PKY         Holland DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ellsworth LN        Beardsley Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Elmfair CT          Des Plains DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Elster Way N        Elster Way W         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ely RD              Avalon BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Emerald Isle CT     Whitewater LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Emery Way           Bailey Way           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Emmanuel CT         Morgan DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Enclave BLVD        Fishers Pointe BLVD  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
End Zone DR         Bears Way            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Endurance DR        Heroic Way           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Enmore Park         Brean Way            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ensley CT           Ensley DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ensley DR           126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ensley DR           Prairieview DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ensley DR           Orchard BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ensley DR (N)       Northland ST         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ensley DR (S)       Northland ST         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ensley PL           Ensley DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Enterprise DR       126th ST             Res. R011425B       1-14-25
Enterprise DR       Parkside DR          Res. R011425B       1-14-25
Eric CT             Bryce Way            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Erlen DR            Pennington RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Eucalyptus LN       Orange Blossom TRL   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Eucalyptus LN       Cotton Blossom DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Evergreen PT        Thorny Ridge TRC     Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Exit 5 PKY          Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fairlane Center     Ford DR              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fairway Ridge LN    Harrison DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fairwood DR         Olio RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fairwoods DR        Windermere BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Falcon Way          Soaring Eagle DR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Falcon Way          Wading Crane AVE     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fall RD             106th ST             Res. 111595A; Res.  11-15-95;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Fall RD             Sawgrass DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Falling Water Way   Rainbow Falls LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fantina LN          Ranford BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Farley DR           Ellipse PKY          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Farley DR           Turkel DR            Res. R110691A; Res. 11-6-91;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Farley PL           Farley DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Farmstead DR        Proposal Pointe Way  Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Farmstead DR        Saddlestone DR       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Farragut CIR        Decatur DR           Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Fathom LN           Newburyport DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Faucet LN           Faucet LN            Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Faucet LN           Geist Ridge DR       Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Fawns Dell          Fawnsbrook DR        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Fawns Dell PL       Fawnsbrook DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fawns Ridge         Fawnsbrook DR        Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Fawns Run           Fawnsbrook DR        Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Fawnsbrook DR       131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fawnsbrook DR       Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fawnsbrook PL       Fawnsbrook DR        Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Feather Grass Way   Meadow Grass Way     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Feather Rock CT     Hearthstone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Federal PL          126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Federal PL          Dekoven DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Felsen CT           Allistair DR         Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Fenwick ST          Avalon BLVD          Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Fernie CIR          Girvan Way           Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Fieldcrest DR       Ambria DR            Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Fielding Way        Lamb DR              Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Fieldstone PL       River Highlands DR   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fireside LN         Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fireside LN (E)     Bruddy DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fireside LN (W)     Bruddy DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fishers Centre DR   116th ST             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Fishers Centre DR   Fishers Pointe BLVD  Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Fishers Corner BLVD Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fishers Corner BLVD Technology DR        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Fishers Marketplace Ambleside DR         Ord. 121514         12-15-14
DR
Fishers Marketplace 131st ST             Ord. 121514         12-15-14
DR
Fishers Pointe BLVD Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fishers Pointe BLVD Fishers Pointe BLVD  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
                    (rnd-a-bt)
Fishers Station DR  Allisonville RD      Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fitness LN          Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fitness LN          96th ST              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Flagstone DR        Cobblestone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Flat Fork Creek     101st ST             Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Park DR
Flint Stone CT      Cobblestone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Floral Hall PL      Brean Way            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Florida RD          104th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Florida RD          113th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Florida RD          Southeastern PKY     Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Flower Mound PL     Belle Plaine BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Foggy Glen Way      Balfour RD           Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Ford DR             126th ST             Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fordham Way         Stratford Way        Res. R110691A; Res. 11-6-91;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Fordham Way         Stratford DR         Res. R110691A; Res. 11-6-91;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Forest Glade DR     Eastpark CIR (E)     Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Forest Meadow CIR   Brooks Edge CIR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(N)
Forest Meadow CIR   Hearthwood DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(N)
Forest Meadow CIR   Brooks Edge CIR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(S)
Forest Meadow CIR   Hearthwood DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(S)
Forewood LN         Bellows Ave          Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Forsythia LN        Orange Blossom TRL   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Forsythia LN        Weeping Cherry DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fortune DR          Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fortune DR          Claymount LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Founders PL         Fishers Pointe BLVD  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fountainview LN     Fishers Pointe BLVD  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fox Run CT          Nighthawk DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Foxboro LN          Roxbury DR           Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Foxtail CT          Thistle Ridge        Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Francis ST          Meadows DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Francis ST          Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Franklin CT         Stratford Way        Res. R110691A; Res. 11-6-91;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Freedom DR          131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Freedom DR          All American RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Front ST            Lantern RD           Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Front ST            Kincaid DR           Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Fuel Way            126th ST             Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Fulton DR           Creektree LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Fulton DR           Bootham CLSE         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gables DR           Merganser DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gables DR           Gables DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gables DR           Canvasback DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gables DR           116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gainesway CIR       Backstretch Row      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gainesway CIR       Brooks Edge LN       Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Gainesway CIR       Gainesway DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gainesway DR        Backstretch Row      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Galileo DR          E 104th ST           Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Galileo DR          Garrano LN           Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Gallatin Way        Gaylen CT            Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Gallatin Way        Sonnette CIR         Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Galley Way RD       Florida RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gallon LN           Blue Ribbon BLVD     Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Galloway CIR        St. Andrews Way      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Garrano LN          Frieda LN            Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Garrano LN          Galileo DR           Res. R122019A;      12-20-19;
                                         Res. R031224I       3-12-24
Garrick ST          Tufton ST            Res. R102093A; Res. 10-20-93;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Garrick ST (N)      St. George BLVD      Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Garrick ST (S)      St. George BLVD      Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gate CIR (E)        Gatewood LN          Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gate CIR (S)        Gatewood LN          Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gate CIR (W)        Gatewood LN          Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gateway DR          Oak Knoll LN         Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gateway DR          106th ST             Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gatewood LN         Allisonville RD      Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gatewood LN         Lake Run DR          Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gatwick View DR     Ringer RD            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gatwick View DR     Chapelwood LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Geist Bay CT        113th ST             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Geist Ridge CT (N)  Geist Ridge DR       Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Geist Ridge CT (S)  Geist Ridge DR       Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Geist Ridge DR      Florida RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Geist Ridge DR      Giselle Way          Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Geist View DR       Haven Cove LN        Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Geist View DR       Kingston DR          Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Geist Woods DR (E)  Geist Woods Way      Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Geist Woods DR (W)  Geist Woods Way      Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Geist Woods Way     Fall Creek RD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Gentry DR           Cliffwood PL         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gentry DR           Weeping Cherry DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Georgia RD          96th ST              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Georgia RD          104th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gilbert LN          136th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gilbert LN          Beardsley Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gillingham PL       Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gilmour DR          Memorial Way         Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Giovanni Steyanato  Cumberland RD        Res. R122723D;      12-27-23;
DR                                       Res. R072324        7-23-24
Giselle Way         Harbor Bay DR        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Giselle Way         Waterway BLVD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Gladden LN          McDowell DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gladden LN          Chandler Way         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gladstone CT        Hanley DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gladview DR         Roy Anderson BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Glapthorn RD        Avalon East DR       Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Glapthorn RD        Thames DR            Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Glass Chimney LN    Glowing Flame LN     Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Glass Chimney LN    Lantern RD           Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Glastonbury CT      Hinton DR            Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Glazer Way          Alamosa Dr           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Glen Cairin CT      Glenn Abbey LN       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Glengary DR         Dellinger DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Glenn Abbey LN      Windermere BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Glenn Abbey LN      Springston CT        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Glenside DR         Balbo PL             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Glenside DR         Pennington RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Glenvista PL        River Highlands DR   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Glenwell DR         Luxor Chase          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Glenwell DR         Wendessa DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gloria DR           Del Webb PKY         Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Gloria DR           Malbec CT            Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Glowing Flame LN    Glass Chimney LN     Res. R060894A; Res. 6-8-94;
                                         R021609D            2-16-09
Golden Ash CT       Ashview DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Golden Fox CT       Clover Hill TRC      Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Goodloe DR          Norman PL            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gooseberry DR       Orange Blossom TRL   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Governors LN        Geist RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Governors LN (E)    Windermere BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Governors LN (W)    Windermere BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Granby CT           Cuchara CT           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Grand Fir DR        Cyntheanne RD        Res. R122722B       12-27-22
                                                              
Grand Fir DR        Virginia Pine DR     Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Granger CT          Sunblest BLVD S      Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Granite Ridge CIR   126th ST             Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Grapevine LN        Meadow Lake DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Grapevine LN        Grapevine LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Grapevine LN (N)    Watercrest DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Grapevine LN (S)    Watercrest DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gray Eagle DR       126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gray Eagle DR       116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gray Eagle DR (N)   Duval DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gray Eagle DR (S)   Duval DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gray Ghost Way      Southeastern PKWY    Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Great Blue TRCE     Hawthorn RDG         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Green Blade DR      Amber Meadows DR     Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Green Blade DR      Promise RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Greendale LN        Ambergate DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Greendale LN        Dekoven DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Greystoke CT        Longleaf LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Grindstone DR       Lake Stonebridge LN  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Grove CIR           Valley Springs BLVD  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Guardhill LN        131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Guardhill LN        Zinfandel PL         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gulfstream CT       Gulfstream DR        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Gulfstream DR       Geist RD             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Gunnison CT         Arvada PL            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Guy ST              Candice DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Guy ST              136th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gypsum Way          Smokey Quartz LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Gypsum Way          Geyser CT            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hague RD (N)        RR Crossing          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hague RD (N)        106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hague RD (S)        RR Crossing          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hague RD (S)        106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Haig Point DR       Harrison DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Haig Point DR (E)   Hamilton Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Haig Point DR (W)   Hamilton Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Halite LN           Travertine WAY       Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Halite LN           Black Hills DR       Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Halla PL            River Glen DR        Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Halsey DR (N)       Fall Creek RD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Halsey DR (S)       Fall Creek RD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Hamble BLVD         Brooks School RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hamble BLVD         116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hamden CT           Kittery DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hamilton Commons    136th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
BLVD
Hamilton Hills LN   Allisonville RD      Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Hamilton Pass       Midnight Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hamilton Pass       Hoosier RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hamilton Pass       106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hammersley DR       104th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hampton PL          Holland DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hanley DR           Darsley DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hanover CT          Stratford DR         Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Harbor Bay CT       Geist Ridge DR       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Harbor Bay DR       Geist Ridge DR       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Harbor Bay DR       Waterway BLVD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Harborvale CHSE     Catalina DR          Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Hardwick DR         Sunblest BLVD S      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hardwick DR         Colbarn DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hardwick PL         Hardwick DR          Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Harlowe DR          Turnham DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Harlowe DR          Howe RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Harrington LN       Tufton PL            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Harrison DR         Midnight Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Harrison DR         Haig Point DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Harrison PKY        146th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Harrison PKY        Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Harrison PKY (E)    Conner Knoll PKY     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Harrison PKY (N)    141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Harrison PKY (S)    141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Harrison PKY (W)    Conner Knoll PKY     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Harrison PT         Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hartswood DR        Corydon DR           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Harvest Knoll CT    Poplar Bend BLVD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hastings CT         Treyburn DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hatherley Way       Aldenham BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Haven Cove LN       Olio RD              Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Havens DR           Cumberland RD        Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Hawks Lake DR       Fox Creek LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hawks Landing DR    126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hawks Landing DR    Hawks Nest DR        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Hawks Nest DR       Silverstone DR       Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Hawkstone DR        Saddlestone DR       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Hawkswood LN        Cyntheanne RD        Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Hawkswood LN        Malta CT             Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Hawthorn RDG (N)    Club PT              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hawthorn RDG (S)    Club PT              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Haydon CT           Sunblest BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Haydon PL           Sunblest BLVD        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Heady CT            Heady LN             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Heady LN            Orchard BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Heady LN            Creekside LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hearthstone DR      Windswept DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hearthstone DR (N)  Mojave DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hearthstone DR (S)  Mojave DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Heartwood DR        Wicklow LN           Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Heather LN          Thistle Ridge        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Heather LN          Briar Stone LN       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Heatherfield DR     Howe RD              Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Heatherfield DR     Green Blade DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Heatherfield DR (N) Heatherfield DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Heatherfield DR (S) Heatherfield DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Heatherglen CIR     Woods Edge DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Helmsley CT         Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Herald SQ           Patrick CT           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Herald SQ           Whitehaven LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Heritage CT         Timberlake LN        Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Heritage Green DR   Windermere Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Heritage Green DR   Greenway DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Heroic Way          Courage Xing         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Heron Pass          Hawthorn RDG         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hickory Woods DR    Hague RD             Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
(N)                                      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hickory Woods DR    Hague RD             Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
(S)                                      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hidden Falls CIR    Ragsdale PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hidden Hollow CT    Belle Plaine BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hidden RDG          Thistle Ridge        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hidden RDG          Briar Stone LN       Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hidden Spring Cove  Woodruff LN          Res. R011116A       1-11-16
High Cloister CT    Langham Crescent CT  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Highbury PL         Bristow LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Highland Springs DR 96th ST              Ord. 021714         2-17-14
N
Highlands PL        River Highlands DR   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hillsborough DR     Mollenkopf RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hillview CIR        Vallyeview DR        Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hinterland DR (E)   Heatherfield DR      Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Hinterland DR (W)   Heatherfield DR      Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Hinton DR           Thames DR            Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Hockley DR          Fenwick ST           Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Holbrook Close      Gatwick View DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Holland DR          Ellipse PKY          Res. R050593A;      5-5-93;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Holland DR (E)      Sunblest BLVD S      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Holland DR (W)      Sunblest BLVD S      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Holly Berry CIR     Weeping Cherry DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hollyhock DR        Gray Eagle DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hollyhock DR        Whitebridge DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hollywood CT        Grapevine LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Home DR (E)         Crestview DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Home DR (W)         Crestview DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hoosier RD          126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
                                         Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Horizon CT          Fall Creek RD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Horse Branch CT     Horse Branch Way     Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Horse Branch Way    Stable Stone TER     Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Howe RD (N)         141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Howe RD (N)         131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Howe RD (S)         141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Howe RD (S)         131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Huff BLVD           131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Huff BLVD           Trailwood DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Hyacinth DR         Hawthorn RDG         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Idlewood DR         116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Igneous DR          Smokey Quartz LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Imperial CT         Neptune CT           Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Indigo CT           Winding Way          Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Innisbrooke LN (N)  Treyburn DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Innisbrooke LN (S)  Treyburn DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Inverness CT        Treyburn DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Iron Pointe DR      106th ST             Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Iron Pointe DR      Crum CT              Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Iroquois CT         Ridge DR             Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Island DR           Bridgewater RD       Res. R090412        9-4-12
Isle of Man Way     S.R. 238             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Isle of Man Way     Camelot House Way    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Jacobs CT           Waterway BLVD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Jagged Rock CT      Apalachian Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Jaguars DR          Vikings LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Jamestown DR N      Charleston PKY       Res. 100291;        10-2-92;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Jamestown DR S      Charleston PKY       Res. 100291;        10-2-92;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Jarama LN           Silverstone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Jarama LN           Millen DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Jasmine CT          Dickenson CT         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Jaycee ST           116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Jennings Farm LN    141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Jennings Farm LN    Meadow Lake DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Jesterwood DR       Stonewood PL         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Jesterwood DR       Princewood DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Joggins LN          Cholla RD            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Joggins LN          Pine Meadow CIR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
John ST             117th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Juniper Breeze (E)  Refreshing Garden LN Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Juniper Breeze (W)  Refreshing Garden LN Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Justice Xing        Heroic Way           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kane CT             Bentley BLVD         Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kaplan CT           Veon DR              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Katana CIR          Black Willow LN      Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Keams DR            Beardsley Way        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Keel RD             Newburyport DR       Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Keeley CT           Windsor DR E         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kelley PL           River Highlands DR   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kelsey CT           Woodstock Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kelsey CT           Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kelsey LN           Courtney DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kemble CT           Ellipse PKY          Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Kemp CT             Waterway BLVD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Kenetta CT          Ellipse PKY          Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Kernite DR          Adobe DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kernite DR          Pebble ST            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Key CT              Waterway BLVD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Killington CIR      Sawgrass DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kincaid DR          106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kincaid DR (N)      North by Northeast   Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                    BLVD                 Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kincaid DR (S)      North by Northeast   Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                    BLVD                 Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kings Horse Way     Edgebrook DR         Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Kings Horse Way     Win Star WAY         Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Kingdom CT          Harbor Bay DR        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Kingston CT         Knightsbridge LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kingston DR         Springstone RD       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Kingwood CT         Royalwood DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kiowa LN            Ridge DR             Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Kirkpatrick Way     126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kittery DR          116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Klepfer CIR         Roy Anderson BLVD    Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Klotz Farm BLVD     116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Klotz Farm BLVD     Niagara DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Knights Way (N)     Avalon BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Knights Way (S)     Avalon BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Knightsbridge LN    Spyglass Ridge DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Knoll Ridge (N)     Buffet PKY           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Knoll Ridge (S)     Buffet PKY           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Knoll Xing (N)      Conner Knoll PKY     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Knoll Xing (S)      Conner Knoll PKY     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Knollton CT         Conner Knoll PKY     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Knollway CT         Knoll Ridge          Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Knollwood PL        Buffet PKY           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Koldyke DR          Clubhouse DR         Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kraus DR            141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kraus DR            Morning Song DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kylan CT            Bentley BLVD         Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Kyle CT             Emery Way            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ladson ST           Brewton ST           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lady of the Lake RD Shakespear Way       Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Lake CIR            Regency DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lake Ridge LN       Kingston DR          Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Lake Run DR         Wharton DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lake Run DR         Woodgate DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lake Vista LN       Heady LN             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lakeridge DR        Olio RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lakeridge DR        116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lakeside DR         Sunblest BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lakeside DR (E)     Allisonville RD      Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lakeside Green DR   Windermere BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lakeside Green DR   Lakeland DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lakeside PL         Sunblest BLVD        Res. R021609D; Ord. 6-8-94;
                                         021714              2-16-09
Lakeview PKY        Delaware PKY         Res. R021609D; Ord. 6-8-94;
                                         021714              2-16-09
Lamarque PL         Touchstone DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lamb DR             Memorial Way         Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Lambert CT          Samoa ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lambrusco Way (N)   Del Webb PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lambrusco Way (S)   Del Webb PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Landings DR         Fall Creek RD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Landis BLVD         Delmore DR           Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Landwood DR (N)     Red Hawk DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Landwood DR (S)     Red Hawk DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Langham Crescent CT Gatwick View DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lansbury LN         Dennison DR          Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Lansbury LN         Todd LN              Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Lansdowne DR (E)    Lantern Farms DR     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lansdowne DR (W)    Lantern Farms DR     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lansing PL          Kelsey CT            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lantana LN          Desert Rose DR       Res. R122019A       12-20-19
                                         Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Lantern Farms DR    Lantern RD           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lantern Farms DR    131st ST             Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lantern RD          Commercial DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lantern RD          Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lantern RD          RR Crossing          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lantern RD (N)      Rexham CT            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lantern RD (S)      Rexham CT            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lantern View DR     Nature Trail DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Latitude Way        Odessa CIR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Latitude Way        Lexi LN              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Latrobe CT          Spire View DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Laurel CT           Lansdowne DR         Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Laurel Falls LN     Rainbow Falls LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lauren Pass (E)     Lakeland DR          Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lauren Pass (W)     Lakeland DR          Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lavina LN           Denrose DR           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Lavina LN           Tampico Chase        Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Lazy Oak CT         Meadow Bend DR       Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Ledgerock CT (N)    Cobblestone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ledgerock CT (S)    Cobblestone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ledgestone CIR (N)  Cobblestone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ledgestone CIR (S)  Cobblestone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Legacy CT           Fishers Pointe BLVD  Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Leland Muse         St Helens Walk       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Leland Muse (E)     Sloane Muse          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Leland Muse (W)     Sloane Muse          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lightship CT        Catboat CT           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Limestone DR        Cobblestone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lincoln CT          Morgan DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lincoln CT          Blackthorn CT        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Linderman CHSE      Fantina LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Linderman CHSE      Gallop LN            Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Lindsey CT          Samoa ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Litchfield PL       Ellsworth LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Litchfield PL       Catalina DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Little Rock CT      Hearthstone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Liverpool PL        Thames DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Loch Raven BLVD     Idlewood DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Loch Raven BLVD     Mojave DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Loch Raven CT       Idlewood DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lockburn DR (N)     Lantern Farms DR     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lockburn DR (S)     Lantern Farms DR     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lockerbie LN        Commonwealth DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lockerbie LN        126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Locksley PL         Rawlings PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Logan LN            Covington BLVD       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Logan LN            Logan LN             Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Loma CT             Hague RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lombard CT          Lantern Farms DR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
London RD           Pinner AVE           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
London RD           Oxbridge PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Long Grove Ln       Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Long Lake LN        Berry Patch LN       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Long Lake LN        Cool Winds Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Long Meadow DR      Plantana BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Long Sotton CIR (N) Westmorland DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Long Sotton CIR (S) Westmorland DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Long Sotton LN      Wheathill Pass       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Longleaf LN         126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Longleaf LN         Barrhill CT          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Longleaf LN         Greystoke CT         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Longleaf LN (N)     St. Andrews Way      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Longleaf LN (S)     St. Andrews Way      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Longrise LN         Eastpark CIR (W)     Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Lothbury CIR        Aldenham BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Loudoun PL          Floral Hall PL       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lowery LN           126th ST             Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Loyala CT           Camden CT            Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Loyalty DR          Heroic Way           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Loyalty DR          Republic DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lucia CT            Fairway Ridge LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lucille CT          Bruddy DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ludlow DR           Kittery DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ludlow DR (E)       Boothbay LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ludlow DR (W)       Boothbay LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ludwell CT          Tenbury Way          Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Lunsford LN         Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Luxor Chase         Chisholm DR          Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Luxor Chase (N)     Tray Moore DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Luxor Chase (S)     Tray Moore DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Lydden DR           Eddington PL         Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Lydden DR           Whispering Breeze DR Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Madden DR           Wainwright BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Madden DR           Holland DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Madden DR (E)       Rush DR              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Madden DR (E)       Cameron DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Madden DR (W)       Rush DR              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Madden DR (W)       Cameron DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Madden LN           Cameron DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Madden LN           Madden DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Madden PL           Madden LN            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Madeline CT         Alyssa Way           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Madison Brooks DR   104th ST             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Madera CT           Sedalia DR           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Mainsail CT         Brixton LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Maiden CT           Gallop LN            Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Majestic Way        United DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Malbec CT           Lambrusco WAY        Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Mallard CT          Wigeon DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mallard LNDG        Tall Trees DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mallard LNDG        Delight Creek RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mallorn CIR         Heatherfield DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Malta PL            Malta Way            Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Manchester DR       Eller RD             Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Manchester DR (E)   Stratford Way        Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Manchester DR (N)   Columbia CIR         Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Manchester DR (S)   Columbia CIR         Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Manchester DR (W)   Stratford Way        Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mancroft DR         Lansbury LN          Res. 121117B        12-11-17
Mancroft DR         Moorcroft DR         Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Manifesto DR        Gallop LN            Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Manship DR          Pioneer TRL          Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Manship LN          116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Maple ST            116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Maple ST            Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Maple ST (N)        North ST             Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Maple ST (S)        North ST             Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Maplebrook DR       Eller RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mapleton CT         Greenway DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Marble Arch Way     Ratliff Run          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Margate Ct          Whitehaven LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Marketplace DR      Parkside DR          Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Marigold CIR        Regency DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Marisa DR           Lansing PL           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Marisa DR (E)       Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Marisa DR (W)       Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Marjac Way          Kingston DR          Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Marlowe CT          Stockwell DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Marsala DR          Lambrusco WAY        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Marsh DR            116th ST             Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Martha DR           Florida RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mary CT             Bruddy DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mast CT             Newburyport DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Masters RD          Willow View RD       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Matacumbe DR        Largo DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Matacumbe DR        Duval DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Max CT              Emery Way            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mays Landing DR     131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Maywick DR          Balbo PL             Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Maywick DR          Cermack Way          Ord. 021714         2-17-14
McDowell DR         Gilbert LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
McDowell DR         Chandler Way         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
McKinstray CT       106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
McLarnden DR        Landis BLVD          Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Mead CT             Glengary DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadow Bend DR      Chapelwood DR        Res. 121117B        12-11-17
                                         Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Meadow Grass Way    141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadow Grass Way    Sweet Clover CIR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadow Grass Way    Fireside LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadow Lake DR      141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadow Lake DR      Howe RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadow Ridge DR     Briar Stone LN       Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadow Ridge DR     Hague RD             Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadow Ridge DR     Winding Way LN       Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadow Ridge DR (E) Meadow Ridge DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadowlark CIR (N)  Songbird LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadowlark CIR (S)  Songbird LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadows DR          Morgan DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Meadows DR          Fishers Pointe BLVD  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Melrose CIR         Melrose CIR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Melrose CIR (N)     Windsor DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Melrose CIR (S)     Windsor DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Memorial Way        Eastpark CIR (E)     Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Memorial Way        Forest Glade DR      Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Memorial Way        Gilmour DR           Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Mercer DR           Mays Landing DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Merganster DR       Gables DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Merlin CT           Sanderling TRCE      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Merlot LN (E)       Venito TRL           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Merlot LN (W)       Venito TRL           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Merrill CT          Lansing PL           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Merryvale ST        Del Webb PKY         Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Merryvale ST        Haywood ST           Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Mesa Valley CT (E)  Silverado DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mesa Valley CT (W)  Silverado DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Messina CIR         Touchstone DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Middlewood LN       Trailwood DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Middlewood LN       Ashwood DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Midnight Line DR    Galileo DR           Res. R031224I       3-12-24
Midnight Pass       Sawgrass DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Midnight Pass (N)   Hamilton Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Midnight Pass (S)   Hamilton Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Millen DR           Red Hawk DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Milton CT           Brookfield DR        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Milton RD           Avalon East DR       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Milton RD           Rotterdam RD         Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Milton RD           Thames DR            Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Mimosa CT           Plantana BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Minden DR           131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Minden DR (N)       131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Minden DR (N)       134th ST             Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Minden DR (N)       Alston DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Minden DR (S)       131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Minden DR (S)       134th ST             Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Minden DR (S)       Alston DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Minot CT            Kittery DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Miranda CIR         Sinclair PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Misty Hollow LN     Winding Way LN       Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Misty Hollow LN     Willow RDG           Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Misty Knoll CT      Bent Tree LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Misty Ridge CT      Woodruff LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Moate DR            Monarchy LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mojave DR           Apalachian Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mojave DR           Desert Glen DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Molique BLVD        Saxony BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Moll DR             Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mollenkopf RD       106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Molley CT           Fountainview LN      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Monarchy LN         Royalwood DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mondavi DR          Del Webb PKY         Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Moorcroft DR        136th ST             Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Moore ST            116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Moore ST            Station ST           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Moore ST            South ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Moore ST            116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Moors End CIR       Easy ST              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Morgan DR           Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Morning Song DR     Calming Waters       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Morningtide CIR (E) Roy Anderson BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Morningtide CIR (W) Roy Anderson BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mosaic              Ravenswood TRL       Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Moscato ST          Haywood ST           Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Moscato ST          Vintner DR           Ord. 121514; Res.   12-15-14; 12-22-16
                                         R122216A
Moss Rock CT        Apalachian Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Moss Wood DR        Eller RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Moss Wood DR        Bristlecone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mossy Rock DR       Heatherfield DR      Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Mossy Rock DR       Solano DR            Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Mud Creek DR        Midnight Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mudsock Fields      Packers AVE          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mudsock Fields      131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Muirfield TRCE      Windermere BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Muirfield TRCE (N)  Governors LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Muirfield TRCE (S)  Governors LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mundy DR (N)        141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mundy DR (S)        141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Municipal DR        Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Municipal DR (N)    Municipal DR (W - E) Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Municipal DR (S)    Municipal DR (W - E) Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mustang TRL (N)     Stable Stone TER     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mustang TRL (S)     Stable Stone TER     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Myrtle LN           136th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Mystic Sun CT       Pica DR              Res. R122722B       12-27-22
N Bent Tree LN      Parkway DR           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
N Bent Tree LN      Woods Edge DR        Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Naples DR           Plantana BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Naples DR           Youngwood LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Nappa Valley LN     Desert Glen DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Nature Trail DR     Lantern Woods BLVD   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Naughton LN         Ranford BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Naughton LN         Fantina LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Nautilus CIR        Fall Creek RD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Neptune DR          Sunland DR           Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Nettle LN           Lantana LN           Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Nettle LN           Whelchel DR          Res. R122019A       12-20-19
New Britton DR      New Britton RD       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
New Britton RD      131st ST             Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
New Tradition TRL   Hoosier RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
New Tradition TRL   Berry Patch LN       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Newbury Ct          North Hampton DR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Newburyport DR      Lexi LN              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Nighthawk DR        Prairie Fox DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Nighthawk DR        Hawks Lake DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Nightshore LN       Coastal PL           Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Nightshore LN       Lowery LN            Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Nightshore LN       Tidecrest DR         Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Nobles Fir CT       Virginia Pine DR     Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Nolan DR            Providence DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Nolan DR            Providence DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Nolan DR            Delaney DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Norman PL           Goodloe DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Normandy Way        Brooks Park BLVD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
North by Northeast  Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
BLVD
North by Northeast  Kincaid DR           Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
BLVD (E)                                 Res. R021609D       2-16-09
North by Northeast  Kincaid DR           Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
BLVD (W)                                 Res. R021609D       2-16-09
North Cabana DR     Lantern Woods BLVD   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
North Hampton DR    Northfield PL        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(N)
North Hampton DR    Northfield PL        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(S)
North ST            Municipal DR         Ord. 121514         12-15-14
North ST (E)        Maple ST             Ord. 121514         12-15-14
North ST (W)        Maple ST             Ord. 121514         12-15-14
North ST (E)        Lantern RD           Ord. 121514         12-15-14
North ST (W)        Lantern RD           Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Northbrook DR       Woodmill DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Northfield BLVD     Hague RD             Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Northfield CIR      Northfield BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Northfield PL (W)   North Hampton DR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Northwood DR        Heady LN             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Norwich CT          Kittery DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Nottingham RD       Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Nottingham RD       131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Oak Grove CT        Fireside LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Oak Haven DR        N Olio RD            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Oakhurst LN         Cyntheanne RD        Res. 121117B        12-11-17
Oak Knoll LN        Gateway DR           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Oak Ridge DR        Wood CT              Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Oak Tree LN         Hickory Woods DR     Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Oakcrest CT         Woodlands DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Oakenshaw DR        River Glen DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Oakford TRL         Del Webb PKY         Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Oakham PL           Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Olana D             Florida RD           Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Olana D             Gammel PL            Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Old Glory DR        All American RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Old Stone PL        River Glen DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Olio Fields         126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Olio RD (N)         SR 238               Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Olio RD (S)         SR 238               Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Oliver ST           Shiraz LN            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Oliver ST           Brookmere AVE        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Olympia DR          Windermere BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Orange Blossom TRL  Holly Berry CIR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Orange Blossom TRL  Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Orchard BLVD        Sunblest BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Orchard BLVD (E)    Heady LN             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Orchard BLVD (W)    Heady LN             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ostara CT           Hawthorn RDG         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Outrippers DR       Tattersalls LN       Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Outrippers DR       E. 96th ST           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Overcrest DR        Cumberland Park DR   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Overlook CT         Briar Stone LN       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Overlook DR         116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Overlook DR         Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Overview DR         Deer Creek PL        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Overview DR         Alston DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Overview DR (N)     131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Overview DR (S)     131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Packard DR (N)      Hillsborough DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Packard DR (S)      Hillsborough DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Packers AVE         Raiders BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Paddington PKY      Avalon BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Paddington PKY      126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Paddock BLVD        Blue Ribbon BLVD     Res. 121117B        12-11-17
Paddock BLVD        Georgia RD           Res. 121117B        12-11-17
Palisades CT        Monarchy LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Palmaire PL         Long Meadow DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Palmetto Bay ST     Coastal PL           Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Palodura CT         Boulder Canyon DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Palmetto Bay CT     Nightshore LN        Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Palmetto Bay ST     Nightshore LN        Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Pamona CT           Sweet Briar PKY      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Panthers Way        Bills AVE            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Park CT             Britton Park DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Park Royal Way      Chorleywood CIR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkland CT         Bird Key BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkshore DR        Meadow Lake DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkshore DR        Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkshore DR (E)    Brightwater DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkshore DR (W)    Brightwater DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkside DR         126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkview CT         Parkview LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkview DR         Apple Tree DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkview Way        Valleyview DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkview Way        106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkway DR (E)      Windermere BLVD      Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkway DR (E)      Woods Edge DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkway DR (N)      Woodlands DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkway DR (S)      Woodlands DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkway DR (W)      Windermere BLVD      Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parkway DR (W)      Woods Edge DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parley LN           Keams DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parmer CIR          Jennings Farm LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Parrot CT           Sawgrass DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pasco ST            126th ST             Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Pathwood CIR        Royalwood DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Patrick CT          Harold SQ            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Patriotic Way       131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pavestone CT        Hearthstone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pearce PL           Gilbert LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pebble ST           Copper Mines Way     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pendleton Parkside  Enterprise DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
LLC
Pendleton Parkside  Parkside DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
LLC
Pendleton Parkside  126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
LLC
Pennington RD       126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pennington RD (N)   131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pennington RD (S)   131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pentalon TRC        Hawthorn RDG         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Peppermill LN (E)   The Legends BLVD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Peppermill LN (W)   The Legends BLVD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Perched Owl Run     Wading Crane AVE     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Perlita DR          Tybalt DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Perlita PL          Glengary DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pewter PL           Saskons BLVD         Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Philadelphia DR     Harrington LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Philadelphia DR     Boston Way           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Picket Fence PL     Belle Plaine BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pine Bluff DR       106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pine Ridge DR N     Spruce LN            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pine Valley CT      Hamilton Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pineneedle CT       Hamilton Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pineview CIR        Valleyview DR        Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pinner AVE          Avalon BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pintail LN          Gables DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pioneer TRL         Fishers Pointe BLVD  Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Piper Glen BLVD     Coastal PL           Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Plantana BLVD       Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Plantana BLVD (E)   Brightwater DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Plantana BLVD (N)   Meadow Lake DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Plantana BLVD (S)   Meadow Lake DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Plantana BLVD (W)   Brightwater DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pleasant Crest AVE  Clover Hill TRCE     Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Pleasant Crest AVE  Harvest Glen BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pleasant View LN    Harlowe DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pleasant View LN    Howe RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(E)
Pleasant View LN    Howe RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(W)
Plum Hollow CIR     Fairway Ridge LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pointe CT           Oak Knoll LN         Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Pointer PL          Saskons BLVD         Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Portage Way         Brooks School RD     Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Prairie Baptist RD  Greenfield AVE (SR   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
                    238)
Prairie Fox DR      Hawks Lake DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Prairie Fox DR      Mollenkopf RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Preservation PT     Hawthorn RDG         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Preston CT          Tremont DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pride LN            Champagne ST         Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Pride LN            Mosaic ST            Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Princewood DR       Royalwood DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Priscilla PL        Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Prominence PL       Cyntheanne RD        Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Prominence PL       Wellsprings PL       Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Promise RD (N)      131st ST             Res. R102102N;      10-21-02;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Promise RD (N)      136th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Promise RD (S)      131st ST             Res. R102102N;      10-21-02;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Promise RD (S)      136th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Proper Pass         Great Blue TRCE      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Proper PT           Proper Pass          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Proposal Pointe Way Keysport LNDG        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Proposal Pointe Way Proposal Pointe Way  Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Providence DR       Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Providence DR       Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Provincial LN       Allistair DR         Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Provincial LN       Ranford BLVD         Res. R021609D; Res. 2-16-09; 1-11-16
                                         R011116A
Publishers DR       Parkside DR          Res. R021609D;      2-16-09;
                                         Res. R011425B       1-14-25
Publishers DR       131st ST             Res. R021609D;      2-16-09;
                                         Res. R011425B       1-14-25
Pymbroke CIR        Pymbroke PL          Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pymbroke CIR        Pymbroke CIR         Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pymbroke PL         River Glen DR        Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Pymbroke Way        Pymbroke CIR         Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Quail Run           Easy ST              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Quaker Ridge CT     Hamilton Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Quarry CT           Cobblestone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Quarry Face CT      Weathered Edge DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Quarterback LN      Steelers BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Quarterback LN      Dolphins DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Queenwood CT        Royalwood DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Radnor Way          Ringtail PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Radnor Way          Guardhill LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ragsdale PL         Niagara DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ragsdale Pl         Rainbow Falls LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Raiders BLVD        126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rainbow Falls LN    Niagara DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Raleigh LN          Jamestown DR         Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rambling RD         Sweet Creek TRL      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rambling RD         Treasure TRL         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rams CT             Bears Way            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ramsgate CT         Harold SQ            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Randall DR          Fuller CT            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ranford BLVD        Allistair DR         Res. R021609D; Res. 2-16-09; 1-11-16
                                         R011116A
Ranford BLVD        Ackerley DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ranford BLVD (N)    104th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ranford BLVD (S)    104th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rangeview CT        Great Blue TRCE      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ratliff Run         Oxbridge PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Raven CT            Howe RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ravenswood TRL      Del Webb PKY         Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Rawlings CT         Touchstone DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rawlings PL         Sweet Briar PKY      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rawlings PL         Touchstone DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rayners LN          Ari LN               Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rayners LN          Bristow LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Red Berry CT        Thorny Ridge TRC     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Red Fox Run         Wilderness TRL       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Red Fox Run         Easy ST              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Red Hawk DR         Gray Eagle DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Red Pine DR         Conifer CT           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Red Pine DR         Pine Bluff DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Red Sky RD          Bird Key BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Red Sky RD          Honey Creek CT       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Red Tail DR         Prairie Fox DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Redskins AVE        Jaguars DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Redskins AVE        Steelers BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Reflection Point DR Brixton LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Refreshing Garden   Lee Stewart LN       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
LN
Refreshing Garden   Juniper Breeze DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
LN
Refreshing Garden   Morning Song DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
LN
Refreshing Garden   Cotton Blossom DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
LN (N)
Refreshing Garden   Cotton Blossom DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
LN (S)
Regency DR          Lantern RD           Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Republic DR         All American RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Revere Way          Cedar Cove LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Revere Way          Highgate CIR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rexham CT           Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Reynolds DR         126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rhone TRL           Del Webb PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ridan ST            Black Mill Pass      Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Ridan ST            Gray Ghost Way       Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Rider DR (E)        Mays Landing DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rider DR (W)        Mays Landing DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ridge CT            Lake Run DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ridge CT (E)        Carefree DR          Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Ridge CT (W)        Carefree DR          Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Ridge DR (E)        Carefree DR          Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Ridge DR (W)        Carefree DR          Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Ridgeside RD        Bridgewater RD (N)   Res. R090412        9-4-12
Ridgeside RD        Bridgewater RD (S)   Res. R090412        9-4-12
Ridgeview CIR       Valleyview DR        Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ridgewater CIR      Thornebush LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ringer RD           113th ST             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Ringer RD           116th ST             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Rising Sun Way      Treasure TRL         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rising Sun Way      121st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
River Glen DR       116th ST             Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
River Glen DR       Clubhouse DR         100614              10-20-14
River Glen DR       Old Stone PL (E)     100614              10-20-14
River Glen DR       Sun River DR (W)     100614              10-20-14
River Highlands DR  Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
River Oak LN E      Pine Ridge DR E      Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
River Oak LN E      Pine Ridge East DR   Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
River Oak LN W      Pine Ridge DR N      Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
River Ridge DR      Sun River DR         Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
River Ridge DR      116th ST             Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
River Ridge DR      Cultured Stone DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Riverside Way       Sun River DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Riverside Way (E)   River Ridge DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Riverside Way (W)   River Ridge DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Roberts DR          Kincaid DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Roberts DR          Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Robinson Run        Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rockingham CIR      Hoosier RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rocky Crest DR      Misty Cove LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rocky Mountain CT   Apalachian Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rocky Pointe RD     Springstone RD       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Rocky Shore DR      Timber Knoll DR      Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Romeo PL            Altamount DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Romeo PL (N)        Altamount DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Romeo PL (S)        Altamount DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ross Xing           Howe RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ross Xing           Harlowe DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rossburn DR         Wedgeport LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rossburn DR         Suncatcher DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rotterdam RD        Avalon East DR       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Rotterdam RD        Thames DR            Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Roundtree RD        Treasure TRL         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Roxbury DR          96th ST              Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Roy Anderson BLVD   141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Roy Anderson BLVD   Heatherfield DR      Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Roy G. Holland      Ellipse PKY          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Memorial Park
Royalty DR          126th ST             Res. R122117        12-21-17
Royalty DR          Olio ST              Res. R122117        12-21-17
Royalwood DR        Olio RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Royalwood DR (N)    Chapelwood LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Royalwood DR (S)    Chapelwood LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ruddy LN            Canvasback DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rue Charlot LN (N)  Rue Fontaine LN      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rue Charlot LN (S)  Rue Fontaine LN      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rue Fontaine LN     N Olio RD            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rue Fontaine LN     Rue Charlot LN       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Running Springs RD  Treasure TRL         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Running Springs RD  Sweet Creek TRL      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Runview CIR         Valleyview DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rush DR             Madden DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rush DR             Sunblest BLVD S      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Russell DR          Howe DR              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Russell DR          Summerwood LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rustic Ridge CT     Poplar Bend BLVD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Rutgers LN          Manchester DR        Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ruxton CT           Ranford BLVD         Res. R021609D; Res. 2-16-09; 1-11-16;
                                         R011116A            12-11-17
Ryan DR (N)         Nolan DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Ryan DR (S)         Nolan DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Saddlestone DR      104th ST             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Saddlestone DR      Waterway BLVD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Sagamore Woods DR   Sweet Creek TRL      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Salatheal CT        Autumn Harvest DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Salem DR            Stratford Way        Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Saltford LN         Westmorland DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Samoa ST            Marisa DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Samoa ST (N)        Delaney DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Samoa ST (S)        Delaney DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sand Creek BLVD     116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sand Creek BLVD     Cedar DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sand Dollar CIR     Sea Star DR          Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Sand Dollar CT      Sea Star DR          Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Sanderling TRCE     Hawthorn RDG         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sanders DR          Ellsworth LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sanders DR          Catalina DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sanger DR           Sinclair PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sangria CT          Catawba Trail        Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Sapphire Berry LN   Gooseberry DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sapphire Berry LN   Boysenberry DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sarah CT            Bailey Way           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Saskons BLVD        126th ST             Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Saskons BLVD        Ellipse PKY          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sawgrass DR (E)     Fall RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sawgrass DR (W)     Fall RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Saxony BLVD         Saxony BLVD (E)      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Saxony BLVD (N)     131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Saxony BLVD (S)     131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Saxony BLVD (E)     Deer Creek PL        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Saybrook CT         Plum Hollow CIR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Scarlet Maple ST    Grand Fir DR         Res. R122722B;      12-27-22;
                                         Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Scarteen RD         Black Mill Pass      Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Scarteen RD         Gray Ghost Way       Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Scenic View DR      North Cabana DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
School House RD     New Tradition TRL    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Scotch Pine CT      Pine Bluff DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Seagrave DR         Spyglass Ridge DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Seagrave DR         Knightsbridge LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Seahawks LN         Raiders BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sea Side DR         113th ST (E)         Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Sea Star CIR        Sea Star Way         Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Sea Star CT         Sea Star Way         Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Sea Star DR         Fall Creek RD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Sea Star Way        106th ST             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Sea Star Way        Geist RD             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Segundo PL          Capulin CT           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Segundo PL          Acacio DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stella CT           Giselle Way          Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Sellerton DR        Cabri LN             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sellerton DR (N)    Cabri LN             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sellerton DR (S)    Cabri LN             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Selsey LN           Forewood LN          Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Senita LN           Prominence PL        Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Sequoia Stone CT    Apalachian Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Serra Vista PTE     Hammersley DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Serra Vista Pointe  Keyesport Landing    Ord. 021714         2-17-14
(E)
Serra Vista Pointe  Keyesport Landing    Ord. 021714         2-17-14
(W)
Settlers CT         Manship DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Seven Oaks DR       136th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Severn Way          131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Seville RD          Tamarisk BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sextan CT           Spyglass Ridge DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Shadowlawn DR       Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Shady Knoll DR      Harvest Glen BLVD    Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Shady Knoll DR      Harvest Glen BLVD    Res. R122723D       12-27-23
                    (S)
Shady Knoll DR      Rustic Ridge CT      Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Shandon LN          St. Andrews Way      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Shasta DR           Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Shasta DR           Indigo LN            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sheffield CT        Northfield BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Shepherds Way       Rayners LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sherbourne RD       106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sherbourne RD       Brittany Way         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sherbrooke DR       Brook Meadow DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sherwood Forest Way Shakespear Way       Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Shiraz LN           Del Webb PKY         Res. R021609D; Res. 2-16-09; 12-22-16
                                         R122216A
Shire Close         Holbrook Close       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Shoe Overlook DR    Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Shoreline BLVD      Springstone RD       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Shoreline BLVD      Water Ridge DR       Res. R072920F       7-29-20
Short Stone PL      Brook Wood DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sigmond DR          Delight Creek RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Silbury Hill Way    Balfour RD           Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Silbury Hill Way    Hinton DR            Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Silent Bluff CT     Poplar Bend BLVD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Silver Meadow CT    Shady Meadow PL      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Silver Ridge CIR    Bristlecone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Silverado DR        Cobblestone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Silverado DR        Hamble BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Silverbell LN       Catalina DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Silverleaf BLVD     Prairie Baptist RD   Res.R122118C        12-21-18
Silverstone DR      Olio RD              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Silverstone DR      Gray Eagle DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Silvertree CT       Valley Springs BLVD  Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sinndar LN          Campolina LN         Res. 121117B        12-11-17
Sinndar LN          Garrano LN           Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Skyhawk CT          Whitebridge DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Slate DR            Weathered Edge DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Slate DR            Carriage Stone DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Slip Anchor LN      Galileo DR           Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Slip Anchor LN      Sinndar LN           Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Sloane Muse         Chapelwood LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sloane Muse (N)     Leland Muse          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sloane Muse (S)     Leland Muse          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sloop CIR           Wintercove Way       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Smokey Quartz LN    Copper Mines Way     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(N)
Smokey Quartz LN    Copper Mines Way     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(S)
Soaring Eagle DR    Fairwood DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Soave TRL           Del Webb PKY         Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Solano DR           Green Blade DR       Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Solomons CT         Geist RD             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Songbird LN         Wildflower CT        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Songbird LN (N)     Wilderness TRL       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Songbird LN (S)     Wilderness TRL       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sonoran RN          Cyntheanne RD        Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Sonoran RN          Prominence PL        Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Sonoran RN          Senita LN            Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Sonrisa DR          Green Blade DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
South Bay DR        96th ST              Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
South (W)           Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Southpoint DR       Crosspoint BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Southpoint DR       Westpoint DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Southwood CIR       Jesterwood DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sparta DR           Mays Landing DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Spice LN            Peppermill LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Spire View DR       Floral Hall PL       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Spire View DR       Swan DR              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Spire View DR       126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Split Granite DR    Driftstone DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Spring Blossom LN   Fountainview LN      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Spring Blossom LN   Fishers Pointe BLVD  Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Springfield LN      Regency DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Springfield LN      Parkview LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Springfield LN (SW) Regency DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Springridge CT      Bradford Knoll DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Springston CT       Mollenkopf RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Springstone RD      96th ST              Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Springtide LN       Cyntheanne RD        Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Spruance CT         Fall Creek RD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Spruce LN           Pine Ridge DR E      Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Spruce LN           Pine Ridge DR        Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Spyglass Ridge DR   116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Spyglass Ridge DR   Brixton LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
St George BLVD      Hague RD             Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
St George BLVD      Garrick ST           Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
St George CT        Garrick ST           Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
St Helens Walk      Gatwick View DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
St Helens Walk      Chapelwood LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
St Andrews Way      Galloway CIR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
St Andrews Way      Longleaf LN          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
St Andrews Way (N)  Galloway CIR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
St Andrews Way (S)  Galloway CIR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stable Stone TER    Copper Saddle BND    Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Stable Stone TER    Georgia RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stage Coach TRL     Crossroads LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stamford CT         North Hampton DR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stanley TER         Gatwick View DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stanley TER         Chapelwood LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Star DR             131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Station ST          Lantern RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Station ST (E)      Maple ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Station ST (W)      Maple ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Steelers BLVD       Brooks School RD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stelor LN           Wildwood DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stepping Stone DR   Castlestone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stepping Stone DR   Weathered Edge DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sterling DR         131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sterling DR         Claymore DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Steward CT          Waterway BLVD        Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Stewart CT          Refreshing Garden LN Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stillwater CT       Windward Pass        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stockwell DR        Sweet Briar PKY      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stone Brook PL      River Side Way       Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Stone Mill CT       Winding Way          Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stonebridge CT      Spyglass Ridge DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stonebrook PL       Riverside Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stonegate DR        Hawkstone DR         Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Stonegate DR        Saddlestone DR       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Stonewood PL        Chapelwood LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stoney Shore AVE    Brook Wood DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stoney Shore AVE    Short Stone PL       Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Straightwood LN     Dekoven DR           Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Stratford DR        Stratford Way        Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stratford Way (E)   Salem DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stratford Way (N)   Manchester DR        Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stratford Way (S)   Manchester DR        Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stratford Way (W)   Salem DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Stratton CT         Woodstock Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Strongbow RD        104th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Strongbow RD        Hearthwood DR        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Succulent PL        Prominence PL        Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Succulent PL        Senita LN            Res. R122723D       12-27-22
Summerton DR        Havens DR            Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Summerwood LN       Ashview DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sun Gold Ct         Whitewater LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sun River DR        River Glen DR        Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunbird DR          Heatherfield DR      Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Sunblest BLVD       Ellipse PKY          Res. 051888;        5-18-88;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD       Colbarn DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD       Colbarn PL           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD       Lantern RD           Res. R110691A;      11-6-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD (E)   Orchard BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD (E)   Sunblest CT          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD (N)   Creekside LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD (S)   Creekside LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD (W)   Orchard BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD (W)   Sunblest BLVD (S)    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD S     Sunblest BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD S     Holland DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD S (E) Rush DR              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD S (E) Corbin DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD S (W) Rush DR              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest BLVD S (W) Corbin DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunblest CT         Sunblest BLVD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Suncatcher DR       Kittery DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Suncoral CIR        Long Meadow DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunglow DR          Amber Meadow DR      Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Sunland Farm DR     Neptune CT           Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Sunlight DR         Kincaid DR           Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Sunlight DR         Lantern RD           Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Sunny Brook PL      River Side Way       Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Sunnybrook PL       Riverside Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sunnyview LN        Summer Hollow DR     Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Sunnyview LN        Summerton DR         Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Sunset Point LN     Waling Woods LN      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Swan DR             Spire View DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Swan DR             Goodloe DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sweet Briar PKY     Tybalt DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sweet Briar PKY (N) 131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sweet Briar PKY (N) Touchstone DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sweet Briar PKY (S) 131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sweet Briar PKY (S) Touchstone DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sweet Clover CIR    Meadow Grass Way     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sweet Creek TRL     School House RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Sweet Spring CT     131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tabert CT           Ranford BLVD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tablick ST          Minden DR            Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Tacoma PL           Guardhill LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Talladega CT        Sweet Briar PKY      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Talnuck CIR         Great Blue TRCE      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Talon Crest DR (E)  Duval DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Talon Crest DR (E)  Duval DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Talon TRCE          Hawthorn RDG         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tamara TRC          Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tamarisk BLVD       Cholla RD            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tamarisk BLVD       116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tamenend CT         Tamenend TRC         Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Tamenend TRC        Fall Creek RD        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Tampico Chase       Sedalia DR           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Tampico Chase       Denrose DR           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Tannenweg Way       131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tannenweg Way       Elster Way N         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tanner DR           Traverse PL          Res. R060894A;      2-16-09
                                         Res. R021609D
Taragon CT          Willow RDG           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tarver CT           Whitebridge DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tattersalls LN      Gallop LN            Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Tavarez CT          Christie Ann DR      Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Tavernier DR        Elgin CT             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tavernier DR (N)    Duval DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tavernier DR (S)    Duval DR             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Teal ST             Canvasback DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Teal ST (N)         Wigeon DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Teal ST (S)         Wigeon DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Teaneck DR          Mays Landing DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Technology DR       Technology LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Technology DR       Lantern RD           Res. 101889;        10-18-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Technology Way      Technology DR        Res. R122117        12-21-17
Teesdale CT         Dellinger DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Temple Wood CIR     Deer Bank RD         Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Templin AVE         Minden DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Templin AVE         Whitten DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Templin AVE (E)     Saxony BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Templin AVE (W)     Saxony BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tensing LN          Corydon DR           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Tensing LN          Gilmour DR           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Terra Cotta CT      Whitewater LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Thames DR           Avalon BLVD          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Thames DR           126th ST             Ord. 121514         12-15-14
The Legends BLVD    116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Thorndale LN        Sugarleaf PL         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Thorndale LN        Watercrest DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Thornebush LN       Timberview DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Thornhill Run       Donovan LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Thorny Ridge Pass   Thorny Ridge TRC     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Thorny Ridge TRC    Hawthorn RDG         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Thorpe Creek PKY    126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Thor Run DR         Madison Brooks DR    Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Thurston CT         Wolford DR           Res. R110691A;      11-06-01;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tiger DR            131st ST             Res. R122117        12-21-17
Tiger DR            Promise RD           Res. R122117        12-21-17
Timber CIR          Brook Wood DR        Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Timber Knoll DR     Timberbrooke BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Timber Springs DR   Hague RD             Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Timber Springs DR   Timber Springs DR (W Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(N- S)              - E)
Timber Springs DR   Forest DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
(N- S)
Timberbrooke BLVD   96th ST              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Timberbrooke BLVD   Stoney Shore AVE     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Timber Knoll DR     Short Stone PL       Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Timberlake CT       Timberlake LN        Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Timberlake LN       Cambridge DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Timberland DR       Timberstone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Timberlane DR       Hague RD             Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Timberlane DR       116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Timberlane PL       Timberlane DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Timberstone DR      Heatherwood DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Timberstone DR      104th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Timberwood LN       Fieldcrest DR        Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Timken CIR          Gray Eagle DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Timken CT           Gray Eagle DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Titans DR           Quarterback LN       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Titans DR           Dolphins DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tito CT             Trophy DR            Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Todd LN             Lamb DR              Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Todd LN (S)         Fielding Way         Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Top Rock CT         Cobblestone DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Toponas PL          Altamount DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Torberg PL          Sunblest BLVD        Res. R110691A;      11-06-01;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Torrance PL         Trumbull CT          Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Touchstone DR       Sinclair PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Touchstone DR       Turnham DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Touchstone DR (E)   Sweet Briar PKY      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Touchstone DR (W)   Sweet Briar PKY      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tournon DR          Brangton DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Townsend CT         Edgefield DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Trade Center DR     141st ST             Res. R021609D;      2-16-09;
                                         Res. R011425B       1-14-25
Trade Center DR     Britton Park DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Trade Center DR     Britton Park RD      Res. R011425B       1-14-25
Traders CT          Autumn Harvest DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Trailwood DR        Promise RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tranquility CT      Priscilla PL         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Trappers CT         Autumn Harvest DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Traverse PL (N)     Trophy DR            Res. R101093B;      10-20-93;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Traverse PL (S)     Trophy DR            Res. R101093B;      10-20-93;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Travertine Way      136th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Travertine Way      Marilyn RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tray Moore DR       Marilyn RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tray Moore DR       Wendessa DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Traymoore DR        Luxor Chase          Res. R032519        3-25-19
Treasure TRL        Sagamore Woods DR    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Trebbiano DR        Rhone TRL            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Treeswing DR        Heatherfield DR      Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Treeswing DR        Roy Anderson BLVD    Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Tremont CIR         Tremont LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tremont DR          Tremont LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tremont DR          106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Trester LN          Trophy DR            Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Treyburn DR         Innisbrooke LN       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Treyburn DR (E)     Windermere BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Treyburn DR (W)     Windermere BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Trophy DR           Traverse PL          Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Trophy DR           126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Trumbull CT         Tanner DR            Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Trumpeter PL        Gatwick View DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Trumpeter PL        Tylers Close         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tuckaway CT         Sweet Creek TRL      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tudor CT            Covington BLVD       Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tufton CT           Tufton ST            Res. R042715        4-27-15
Tufton PL           Tufton ST            Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tufton PL           Harrington PL        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tufton ST (N)       Garrick ST           Res. R102093A;      10-20-93;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tufton ST (S)       Garrick ST           Res. R102093A;      10-20-93;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tufton ST (SW)      Garrick ST           Res. R102093A;      10-20-93;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tumbleweed CT       Desert Glen DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Turin CT            Lantern RD           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Turin CT            Traverse PL          Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Turin CT (E)        Traverse PL          Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Turin CT (W)        Traverse PL          Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Turkel CT           Turkel DR            Res. R110691A;      11-06-01;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Turkel DR           Sunblest BLVD        Res. R110691A;      11-06-01;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Turkel PL           Turkel DR            Res. R110691A;      11-06-01;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Turne Groove CT     Hawthorn RDG         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Turner Hollow PL    Serra Vista Pointe   Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Turnham DR          Locksley PL          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Turnleaf CIR        Talon TRCE           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tuscany CT          Bordeaux Way         Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Twyckenham DR       Eddington PL         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Twyckenham DR       Wolverton Way        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Twyckenham DR (N)   Bellingham BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Twyckenham DR (S)   Bellingham BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Tynan Way           Trophy DR            Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
United DR           131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
USA DR              USA PKY              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
USA PKWY            116th ST             Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Valhalla LN         Annette LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Valhalla LN         Tavernier DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Valley Crest CT     Forest Meadow CIR    Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Valley Crossing DR  Chapelwood DR        Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Valley Crossing DR  Harvest Glen BLVD    Res. R121117B       12-11-17
Valley Farm CT      Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Valley Ridge CIR    Seagrave DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Valley Springs BLVD Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Van Buren PL        Gilbert LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Van Buren PL (N)    Beardsley Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Van Buren PL (S)    Beardsley Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Venito TRL          Del Webb PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Venito TRL          Winery Way           Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Veon DR             Glazer Way           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Veon DR             131st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Village Square LN   Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Vincent DR          Oak Haven DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Vine Tree Trail     Del Webb PKY         Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Vineyard DR         Courtyard Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Vintner DR (E)      Moscato ST           Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Vintner DR (W)      Moscato ST           Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Virginia Pine DR    Black Willow LN      Res. R122723D       12-27-23
Vitalize Run        Gray Ghost Way       Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Vitalize Run        Springtide LN        Res. R121321A;      12-13-21;
                                         Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Volcanic Rock DR    Silverado DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
W Iron Point CT     Iron Point DR        Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Wabash DR           Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wading Crane AVE    96th ST              Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Wading Crane AVE    Fairwood DR          Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Wainwright BLVD     Sunblest BLVD S      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wainwright BLVD     116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wakefield PL        Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Walbeck DR (N)      Alston DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Walbeck DR (S)      Alston DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Walbeck DR E        Templin AVE          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Walbeck DR E        Walbeck DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Walker LN           Red Hawk DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Walker LN (N)       Landwood DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Walker LN (S)       Landwood DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Walking Woods LN    Brixton LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Walney CT           Commonwealth DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Walnut Ridge PL     River Highlands DR   Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Waltham Way         Woodstock Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wanakah ST          Wanakah ST           Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Wanakah ST          Welchel DR           Res. R122722B       12-27-22
Water Front LN      Faucet LN            Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Water Front LN      Geist Ridge DR       Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Water Ridge DR      Springstone RD       Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Waterbluff PL       Clearstream DR       Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Watercrest DR       Creektree LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Watercrest DR       High Point CIR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Watercrest DR       Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Watercrest DR (E)   Grapevine LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Watercrest DR (W)   Grapevine LN         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Waterton PL         Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Waterway BLVD       Brooksfield DR       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Waterway BLVD       Olio RD              Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Waveland CIR        Jennings Farm LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Waycross DR         Wyandotte PL         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Waycross DR         Wabash DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wayside DR (E)      Bridgewater RD (S)   Res. R090412        9-4-12
Wayside DR (W)      Bridgewater RD       Res. R090412        9-4-12
Weathered Edge      Cobblestone DR       Res. R122109B       12-21-09
Drive
Wedgefield CT       Muirfield TRCE       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wedgeport LN        Pine Meadow CIR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wedgeport LN        116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wedgestone CT       Harvest Glen BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Weeping Cherry DR   141st ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Weeping Cherry DR   Worthington BLVD     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wellsprings PL      Prominence PL        Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Wellsprings PL      Springtide LN        Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Wendessa DR         Chisholm DR          Ord. 021714         2-17-14
Wesley CT           Wesley PL            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wesley CT (N)       Windsor DR S         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wesley CT (S)       Windsor DR S         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wesley PL           Windsor DR E         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wesley PL           Windsor DR W         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Westerly CT         Hammersley DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Westmorland DR      126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Westmorland DR      Brean Way            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Westpoint DR        Centerpoint DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Westpoint DR        Hague RD             Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Westwood LN         Ashwood DR           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Westwood LN         Trailwood DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wetland PT          Proper Pass          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wharton DR (N)      Lake Run DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wharton DR (S)      Lake Run DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wheeling CT         Woodlark DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Whelchel DR         Cyntheanne DR        Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Whelchel DR         Florida RD           Res. R122019A       12-20-19
Whisper Way         126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Whisper Way         Whisper Knoll DR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Whispering Breeze   Harvest Glen BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
DR
Whisperwood Way     Whisper Cove DR      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
White River PL      River Ridge DR       Res. R021609D; Ord. 2-16-09;
                                         021714              2-17-14
Whitebridge DR      Gray Eagle DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Whitehaven LN       Harold SQ            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Whitetail CIR       Woods Edge DR        Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Whitewater LN       Blue Springs LN      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Whitewater LN       Crossroads LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
WhitewaterWay       Falling Water Way    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Whitney Way         Woodstock Way        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Whitten DR N        Overview DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Whitten DR S        Overview DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Whittier DR         Wakefield PL         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wickland Ct         Glass Chimney LN     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wicklow LN          Strongbow RD         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wigeon DR           Gables DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wigeon DR           Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wild Cherry DR      Cherry Blossom DR W  Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wild Cherry DR      Cherry Blossom DR E  Res. 071989;        7-19-89;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wild Turkey Row     Diving Hawk Xing     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wild Turkey Row     Fairwood DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wilderness TRL      116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wildwood DR         106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wildwood LN         Hickory Woods DR     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Willow RDG          Thistle RDG          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Willow RDG          Blackthorn CT        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Willow View RD      96th ST              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Willow View RD      Masters RD           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Willow View RD      Allisonville RD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Willowbend CT       Woods Edge DR        Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Willowbrook DR      Maplebrook DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Win Star WAY        Edgebrook DR         Ord. 121514         12-15-14
Windbreak CT        Timberview DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windermere BLVD     96th ST              Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windermere BLVD     106th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windermere BLVD     Glenn Abbey LN       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windermere BLVD     Mollenkopf RD        Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windermere BLVD     Crosswinds DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windermere BLVD (N) Parkway DR           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windermere BLVD (N) Treyburn DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windermere BLVD (S) Parkway DR           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windermere BLVD (S) Treyburn DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Winding Creek CT    Winding Creek LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Winding Creek LN    126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Winding Way         Willow RDG           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windjammer CT       Halsey DR            Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Windjammer DR (S)   Windjammer DR (N)    Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Windjammer TRCE     Geist RD             Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Windsor DR          126th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windsor DR          Windsor DR W         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windsor DR E        Windsor DR W         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windsor DR E        Windsor DR S         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windsor DR W        Windsor DR S         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windswept DR        116th ST             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windward Pass       Fairwoods DR         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windward Pass (N)   Windermere BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Windward Pass (S)   Windermere BLVD      Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wingstem CT         Shandon LN           Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wingstem Ct         Claymore DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Winning Ticket CT   Backstretch Row      Res. R122118C       12-21-18
Winston LN          Wildwood DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Winter Meadow DR    April Rose DR        Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Winter Meadow DR    Pica DR              Res. R121321A       12-13-21
Winter Ridge DR     Springstone RD       Ord. 071513         7-15-13
Wintercove Way      Easy ST              Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Winterking Pass     Geist RD             Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Winterking Pass     Thorny Ridge TRC     Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Winthrop PL         Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wiseman DR          Black Mill Pass      Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Wiseman DR          Gray Ghost Way       Res. R122024J       12-20-24
Witherbee LN        Gray Eagle DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Witherbee LN        Gray Eagle DR        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Witherbee LN        Brandamore LN        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wolffe DR           Halla PL             Res. R110691A;      11-06-01;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wolford CT          Wolford DR           Res. R110691A;      11-06-01;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wolford DR          Lantern RD           Res. R110691A;      11-06-01;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wolford DR          126th ST             Res. R110691A;      11-06-01;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wolford PL          Wolford DR           Res. R110691A;      11-06-01;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodlands DR        96th ST              Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodlands Dr        Parkway DR           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodlark DR         Whittier DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodlark DR (E)     Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodlark DR (W)     Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodmill DR         Eller RD             Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodridge LN        Gate CIR             Res. R110691A;      11-06-01;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodruff LN         Thorpe Creek PKY     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woods Edge DR       Parkway DR           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woods Edge DR       Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woods Edge DR (E)   Parkway DR           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woods Edge DR (W)   Parkway DR           Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodstock Way       Covington BLVD       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodstock Way       Lantern RD           Res. R122216A       12-22-16
Woodstone CIR       Harvest Glen BLVD    Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodstone CT        Woodlands DR         Res. R060894A;      6-8-94;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodview CT         Hickory Woods DR     Res. 100291;        10-2-91;
                                         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodward DR         Sawgrass DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Woodward DR         Fairway Ridge LN     Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wooster CT          Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Worthington BLVD    Cumberland RD        Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wyandotte PL        Wabash DR            Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wyandotte PL        Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wyandotte PL (N)    Harrison PKY         Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wynham CT           Greenway DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wynngate LN         Dobbins DR           Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Wynngate LN         Harborvale CHSE      Res. R011116A       1-11-16
Wynsom CT           Wendessa DR          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wynsom CT (E)       Luxor Chase          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Wynsom CT (W)       Luxor Chase          Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Yosemite CT         Desert Glen DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Youngwood LN (E)    Brightwater DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Youngwood LN (W)    Brightwater DR       Res. R021609D       2-16-09
Zion CT             Beardsley Way        Ord. 021714         2-17-14
                                                           
 
SCHEDULE II. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
71.01 and when proper signs are erected, vehicles shall yield the right-of-way
at the following intersections as indicated below:
Street Name Direction of Travel Intersecting Street Res./Ord. No. Passage Date
Street Name        Direction of Intersecting       Res./Ord. No.  Passage Date
                   Travel       Street
96th St.           East         Allisonville Rd.   Res. R122024J  12-20-24
96th St.           West         Allisonville Rd.   Res. R122024J  12-20-24
96th St.           All          Fall Creek Rd.     Ord. 021714    2-17-14
96th St.           All          Lantern Rd.        Res. R121117B  12-11-17
106th St.          East         USA Pkwy.          Ord. 021714    2-17-14
106th St.          East         Lantern Rd.        Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
106th St.          West         Crosspoint Blvd.   Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
106th St.          West         Lantern Rd.        Ord. 021714    2-17-14
106th St.          All          Geist Rd.          Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
106th St.          All          Hoosier Rd./       Res. R122723D  12-27-23
                                Windermere Blvd.
106th E St.        All          Cumberland Rd.     Res. R122216A  12-22-16
106th E St.        All          I-69               Res. R122216A  12-22-16
113th St.          All          Florida Rd.        Res. R122118C  12-21-18
126th St.          All          Lantern Rd.        Ord. 021714    2-17-14
126th St.          All          Parkside Dr.       Res. R122019A  12-20-19
126th St.          All          State Road 37      Res. R121321A  12-13-21
126th St.          East         Southeastern       Res. R122024J  12-20-24
                                Pkwy./Corydon Dr.
131st St.          All          Cumberland Rd.     Res. R122118C  12-21-18
131st St.          All          Lantern Rd.        Ord. 021714    2-17-14
131st St.          All          State Road 37      Res. R122722   12-27-22
135th St.          All          Britton Park Rd.   Ord. 021714    2-17-14
136th St.          East         Hamilton Commons   Ord. 021714    2-17-14
                                Blvd.
136th St.          West         Minden Ave.        Ord. 021714    2-17-14
136th St. (E)      All          Southeastern Pwky. Res. R122118C  12-21-18
                                Old Oak Dr./
141st St.          East         Prairie Lakes      Res. R122024J  12-20-24
                                Blvd. South
                                Old Oak Dr./
141st St.          West         Prairie Lakes      Res. R122024J  12-20-24
                                Blvd. South
Aeroneca Ln.       Southwest    Beam Ridge Dr.     Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Allisonville Rd.   North        96th St.           Res. R122024J  12-20-24
Allisonville Rd.   South        96th St.           Res. R122024J  12-20-24
Apple Tree Cir.    Southeast    Apple Tree Cir.    Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Ashton Pl.         East         Ashton Ln.         Res.;          5-18-88 ;
                                                   Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Athalene Ln.       North        Aeronica Ln.       Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Athalene Ln.       Southwest    Beam Ridge Dr.     Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Austin Pl.         Northeast    Athalene Ln.       Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Avalon Blvd.       Northeast    Avalon W Dr.       Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Avalon Blvd.       Southwest    Avalon E Dr.       Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Avalon E Dr.       Northeast    Thames Dr.         Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Avalon E Dr.       Northwest    Avalon Blvd.       Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Avalon W Dr.       Southeast    Avalon Blvd.       Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Barnegat           East         Springstone Rd.    Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Bay Ln.            South        Washington Bay Dr. Res. R060894A; 6-8-94;
                                                   Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Bee Camp Ct.       Northeast    Springstone Rd.    Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Brooks Park Blvd.  South        Copper Springs Way Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Brooks School Rd.  South        Fall Creek Rd.     Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
Brooks School Rd.  North        Fall Creek Rd.     Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
Bryden Pl.         South        Bryden Dr.         Res.;          5-18-88 ;
                                                   Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Camp Creek Ln.     North        Springstone Rd.    Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Copper Springs Way East         Brooks Park Blvd.  Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Copper Springs Way West         Edgebrook Dr.      Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Corydon Dr         South        Southeastern Pkwy. Res. R122024J  12-20- 24
Crosspoint Blvd.   North        106th St.          Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
Deerfield Ln.      South        Highland Springs   Ord. 021714    2-17-14
                                Dr.
Davenport Dr.      West         Silverleaf Blvd.   Res. R011116A  1-11-16
Dennison Dr.       North        Davenport Dr.      Res. R011116A  1-11-16
Edgebrook Dr.      All          Copper Saddle Bnd. Res. R122216A  12-22-16
Edgebrook Dr.      North        Copper Springs Way Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Fairfax Ct.        East         Springstone Rd.    Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Fall Creek Rd.     East         Brooks School Rd.  Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
Fall Creek Rd.     West         Brooks School Rd.  Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
Geist Rd.          All          106th St.          Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
Geist Woods Cir.   South        Geist Woods N Dr.  Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Geist Woods Ct.    South        Geist Woods N Dr.  Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Geist Woods S Dr.  Northwest    Geist Woods N Dr.  Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Geist Woods        Northwest    Geist Woods N Dr.  Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Terrace
Geist Woods        Southeast    Geist Woods S Dr.  Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Terrace
Geist Woods Way    Northwest    Geist Woods N Dr.  Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Golden Ridge Ln.   South        Springstone Rd.    Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Goldenrod Ln.      North        Northwood Dr.      —; Ord. 02171- - ; 2-17-14
Goldenrod Ln.      South        Lake Vista Dr.     —; Ord. 02171- - ; 2-17-14
Hamilton Commons   South        136th St.          Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Blvd.
Harbour Cir.       South        Portage Way        Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Highland Springs N North        Fairwood Dr.       Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Dr.
Highland Springs   East         Highland Springs N Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Dr.                             Dr.
Highland Springs   West         Oakleaf Way        Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Dr.
Hoosier Rd.        South        106th St.          Res. R122723D  12-27- 23
Lakeview Pkwy.     East         Washington Bay Dr. Res. R060894A; 6-8-94;
                                                   Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Lantern Rd.        North        106th St.          Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Lantern Rd.        South        106th St.          Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
Mariner Ct.        West         Water Ridge Dr.    Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Maryland Ct.       West         Washington Bay Dr. Res. R060894A; 6-8-94;
                                                   Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Meadow Ln.         North        Northland Dr.      —; Ord. 02171- - ; 2-17-14
Meadow Ln.         South        Lake Vista Dr.     —; Ord. 02171- - ; 2-17-14
Middlebrook Ct.    North        Springstone Rd.    Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Minden Ave.        North        136th St.          Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Oak Knoll Ln.      East         Gateway Dr.        Res. R060894A; 6-8-94;
                                                   Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Old Oak Dr.        North        141st St.          Res. R122024J  12-20- 24
Park Vista Ct.     North        Lakeview Pkwy.     Res. R060894A; 6-8-94;
                                                   Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Pointe Ct.         East         Oak Knoll Lane     Res. R060894A; 6-8-94;
                                                   Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Port View Ln.      East         Rocky Pointe Rd.   Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Portage Cir.       South        Portage Way        Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Prairie Lakes      South        141st St.          Res. R122024J  12-20- 24
Blvd. South
Reston Ln.         Northwest    Springstone Rd.    Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Roy Anderson Blvd. South        Sunglow Blvd.      Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
Roy Anderson Blvd. North        Roy Anderson Blvd. Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
Shoreline Blvd.    North        Bridgewater Ct.    Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Shoreline Blvd.    North        Coastline Ct.      Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Silverleaf Blvd.   East         Dennison Dr.       Res. R011116A  1-11-16
Southeastern Pkwy. All          Cyntheanne Rd.     Res. R122722   12-27-22
Southereastern     All          126th St.          Res. R122024J  12-20-24
Pkwy.
Springwood Ct.     North        Fairwood Dr.       Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Sunglow Dr.        West         Roy Anderson Blvd. Ord. 121514    12-15- 14
Thames Dr.         Southeast    Thames Dr.         Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Thames Dr.         West         Avalon E Dr.       Ord. 021714    2-17-14
USA Dr.            North        USA Pkwy.          Res. R122117   12-21-17
USA Pkwy.          All          USA Pkwy.          Res. R122117   12-21-17
USA Pkwy.          South        106th St.          Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Water Ridge Dr.    Southeast    Shoreline Blvd.    Ord. 021714    2-17-14
Willowood Ln.      North        Northwood Dr.      —; Ord. 02171- - ; 2-17-14
Willowood Ln.      South        Lake Vista Dr.     —; Ord. 02171- - ; 2-17-14
Windermere Blvd.   North        106th St.          Res. R122723D  12-27- 23
York Pl.           South        Sunblest Blvd.     —; Ord. 02171- - ; 2-17-14
 
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   In accordance with §§
71.15 and
71.16, the maximum speed limit shall be as set forth in this schedule upon
those streets or portions thereof:
Street Name Subdivision Name Speed Limit
Street Name               Subdivision Name           Speed Limit
                                                     40 (the entire length)
E. 96th St.                                          east from east side of
                                                     White River Bridge to
                                                     Mollenkopf Rd.
                                                     40 from Fall Creek Rd to
E. 96th St.                                          1,300 feet east of Olio
                                                     Road
E. 96th St.                                          40 from east of Mollenkopf
                                                     Rd. to Fall Creek Rd.
                                                     45 from 1,300 feet east of
                                                     Olio Road to eastern
E. 96th St.                                          Hamilton county line on
                                                     incorporated roadway
                                                     segments.
E. 101st St.                                         40 from Cyntheanne Rd.
                                                     1561' east
                                                     35 from east end of school
E. 104th St.                                         zone east to Cyntheanne
                                                     Rd.
E.106th St.               From Eller Rd. to          35
                          Allisonville Rd.
                                                     35 from Hague Rd.
                          From Hague Rd. to          Eastbound to Hamilton
E.106th St.               Hawthorne Ridge            Pass.
                                                     40 from Hamilton Pass to
                                                     Hawthorne Ridge
E. 106th St.                                         40 from Eller Rd. to
                                                     Hawthorn Ridge.
                          Olio Rd. east to 1050 feet
E. 113th St.              east of roundabout at      35
                          Florida Rd.
                          From Olio Rd. 1050 ft.
                          east of roundabout at
113th St.                 Florida Rd. and 2,200 ft.  35
                          east of Florida Rd. to
                          Southeastern Parkway
                                                     Thirty from 100 feet west
                                                     of USA Pkwy to 200 feet
116th St.                                            east of Spyglass Ridge
                                                     Drive until construction
                                                     complete, then 40
116th St.                                            25 from Commercial Drive
                                                     to Holland Drive.
                                                     40 from Eller to
                                                     Wilderness Trail
                                                     35 from Wilderness Trail
                                                     to Fishers Pointe Dr.
E. 116th St.              From Eller Rd. to Olio Rd. 25 from Fishers Pointe to
                                                     Commercial Dr.
                                                     40 from Commercial Dr. to
                                                     Olio Rd. eastbound and
                                                     westbound
E. 116th St.                                         35 from Olio Rd. to Ringer
                                                     Rd.
E. 121st St.              Sand Creek Woods
E.126th St.                                          40 from Bardolino Dr.
                                                     eastbound to Atlantic Rd.
                                                     35 mph from Allisonville
                                                     Rd. east to S.R. 37. Then
                                                     40 mph from S.R. 37 east
E. 126th St.                                         to 500 feet west of
                                                     Southeastern Parkway when
                                                     a school zone does not
                                                     apply.
                                                     35 from Allisonville to
E. 131st St.                                         eastern property line of
                                                     HSE Sand Creek
                                                     Intermediate School.
135th St.                 Fishers Marketplace        25
                                                     35 from Promise Rd.
                                                     eastbound to eastern
                                                     property line of Limestone
                                                     Springs
E. 136th St.                                         35 from Southeastern Pkwy
                                                     eastbound for approx.
                                                     3,400 feet
                                                     And 35 from Prairie
                                                     Baptist Rd. east to corp.
                                                     limit (sections)
E.141st St.               Harrison Lakes             35 from Allisonville Rd.
                                                     eastbound to Howe Rd.
E.146th St.               Weaver Creek
Adirondack Ct.            Sandstone Village          25
Aegean Rd.                Masthead                25
Aeronica Ln.              Springs of Cambridge       25
Ailsa Craig Pt.           Turnberry                  25
Albatross Cir.            Intracostal at Geist       25
                                                     25 from 700 feet south of
                                                     E 106th St. to 700 feet
Allisonville Rd.                                     north of E 106th St. until
                                                     construction complete,
                                                     then 40
Allisonville Rd.          East 96th St. to East      40 from East 96th St. to
                          146th St.                  Providence Dr.
Allisonville Rd.          126th St. and 131st St.    30 until construction
                                                     complete; then 40
Allistair Dr.             Ravinia                    25
Amber Meadow Dr.          Anderson Hall              25
Amber Meadow Dr. East     Anderson Hall              25
Amber Meadow Dr. West     Anderson Hall              25
Andrews Pl.               Walnut Creek               25
Annette Ln.               Cottonwood Creek at Gray   25
                          Eagle
Apalachian Way            Sandstone Village          25
Apalachian Way            Sandstone Crossing         25
Arcadia Pl.               Conner Knoll               25
Archipel St.              Britton Falls              25
Arista Ln.                Britton Falls              25
Armada Ct.                Masthead                   25
Ash Stone Ct.             Weatherstone               25
Ashley Ct.                Burberry Place             25
Ashley Pl.                Burberry Place             25
Athalene Ln.              Springs of Cambridge       25
                                                     35 from the dead end at I-
Atlantic Rd.                                         69 southbound for 9,071.3
                                                     feet
Austin Pl.                Springs of Cambridge       25
Avery Cr.                 Burberry Place             25
Avery Row                 Burberry Place             25
Bahamas Cir.              Masthead                   25
Bahamas Ct.               Masthead                   25
Balletto Way              Briton Falls               25
Bamstone Ct.              Sandstone Meadows          25
Bardolino Dr.             Britton Falls              25
Barnegat Ln.              Springs of Cambridge       25
Baybridge Way             Canal Place                25
Bayside Ct.               Bridgewater                25
Bayview Ct.               Masthead                   25
Beam Ridge Dr.            Springs of Cambridge       25
Bedrock Ct.               Sandstone Lakes            25
Bee Camp Ct.              Springs of Cambridge       25
Bentfield Ct.             Silverton                  25
Benziger Ct.              Britton Falls              25
Berkley Cir.              Burberry Place             25
Berkley Ct.               Burberry Place             25
Betton Pl.                Silverton                  25
Blue Ribbon Blvd.         Reserve at Steeplechase    25
Blush Dr.                 Britton Falls              25
Bonner Cir.               Silverton                  25
Bowline Rd.               Intracostal at Geist       25
Bradshaw Dr.              Silverton                  25
Brandamore Ln.            The Highlands at Gray      25
                          Eagle
Brandy Ln.                Britton Falls              25
Bridgeview Ct.            Springs of Cambridge       25
Bridgewater Rd.           Bridgewater                25
Brixham Ct.               Cottingham Estates         25
Brookfield Dr.            Brooks Landing             25
Brookmere Ave.            Britton Falls              25
                                                     35 from Fall Creek
Brooks School Rd.                                    northbound to East 136th
                                                     St.
Buckingham Ct.            Cottingham Estates         25
Buff Stone Ct.            Sandstone Ridge            25
Burgandy St.              Britton Falls              25
Callaway Ct.              Woods at Gray Eagle        25
Cameolina Ln.             Sanctuary at Steeplechase  25
Camp Creek Ln.            Springs of Cambridge       25
Canyon Ct.                Sanstone Woods             25
Carefree Dr.              Carefree Estates           25
Carriage Stone Dr.        Sandstone Meadows          25
Castlestone Dr.           Sandstone Lakes            25
Catawba Trail             Britton Falls              25
Cava Dr.                  Britton Falls              25
Cellar St.                Britton Falls              25
Chapelwood Dr.            Thorpe Creek               25
Charbono St.              Britton Falls              25
Chippenham Ln.            Cottingham Estates         25
Chiseled Stone Dr.        Sandstone Meadows          25
Chrisfield Ln.            Springs of Cambridge       25
Christie Ann Dr.          Brooks Landing             25
Cirrus Dr.                The Highlands at Gray      25
                          Eagle
Claret Ct.                Britton Falls              25
Clarinda Ct.              Brooks Landing             25
Claymount Ln.             Walnut Creek               25
Cloverbank Dr.            Oakhurst                   25
Clubhouse Dr.             River Glen                 25
Coastal Pl.               Piper Glen                 25
Coastline Ct.             Springs of Cambridge       25
Cobblefield Ct.           Sandstone Lakes            25
Cobblestone Dr.           Sandstone Lakes            25
Cofton Blvd.              Avalon of Fishers          25
Connecticut Ave.                                     40 from Cyntheanne Rd. to
                                                     S.R. 238
Conner Creek Dr.          Conner Creek               25
Crestmoor Ln.             Reserve at Geist           25
Crestview Dr.             Country View               25
Crosspoint Blvd.                                     35
Cultured Stone Dr.        Sandstone Meadows          25
                                                     35 from East 96th St.
                                                     northbound to East 141st
                                                     St.
                                                     From the southern property
                                                     line of the Woodberry
                                                     Subdivision North 744.25
Cumberland Rd.                                       feet to East 141st St.
                                                     From the southern property
                                                     line northbound 422.08
                                                     feet to the northern
                                                     property line of the
                                                     Cumberland Place
                                                     Subdivision.
                          North of Southeastern Pkwy
                          when school zone not in
Cyntheanne Rd.            effect continuous for 1.4  40
                          miles and south of 104th
                          St. continuous for 2,750
                          feet
Cyntheanne Rd.            North of 104th St.         35
                          continuous for 2,000 feet
Darsley Dr.               Woods at Gray Eagle        25
Davenport Dr.             Silverton                  25
Decatur Dr.               Masthead                   25
Deerfield Ln.             Highland Springs           25
Dell Webb Pky.            Dell Webb                  30 to Trebbiano Dr.
Dell Webb Pky.            Britton Falls              25
Delmore Dr.               Boulders                   25
Dennison Dr.              Silverton                  25
Diving Hawk Crossing      Fox Hollow at Geist        25
Dolcetto Dr.              Britton Falls              25
Donnington Ln.            Links at Gray Eagle        25
Dorman Ct.                Prescott                   25
Dressage Ct.              Reserve at Steeplechase    25
Driftstone Dr.            Sandstone Meadows          25
Duval Dr.                 Bluffs at Gray Eagle       25
Eastpark Cir. (E)         Hunters Run                25
Ebbert Dr.                Boulders                   25
Elgin Ct.                 Cottonwood Creek at Gray   25
                          Eagle
Eller Rd.                                            35 northbound from
                                                     Allisonville to East 116th
Excalibur Way             Avalon of Fishers          25
Fairfax Ct.               Springs of Cambridge       25
Fairwood Dr.              Highland Springs           25
Falcon Way                Fox Hollow at Geist        25
Fall Rd.                                             35
Fall Creek Rd.                                       40
Farmstead Dr.             Reserve at Geist           25
Farmstead Dr.             Weatherstone               25
Farragut Cir.             Masthead                   25
Feather Rock Ct.          Sandstone Ridge            25
Felsen Ct.                Ravinia                    25
Flagstone Dr.             Sandstone lakes            25
Flint Stone Ct.           Sandstone Lakes            25
                          East 104th St. northbound
Florida Rd.               to 1,600 feet north of     35
                          roundabout at 113th St.
                          From East 104th St.
Florida Rd.               northbound in Southeastern 35
                          Parkway
Foggy Glen Way            Avalon of Fishers          25
Forest Glade Dr.          Hunters Run                25
Fortune Dr.               Walnut Creek               25
Franks Way                Reserve at Geist           25
Galileo Dr.               Sanctuary at Steeplechase  25
Galley Way                Intracostal at Geist       25
Gallon Ln.                Reserve at Steeplechase    25
Garrick Ct.               Burberry Place             25
Garrick St.               Burberry Place             25
Geist Bay Ct.             Geist Bay Estates          25
Geist Ridge Ct.           Valleys Ay Geist           25
Geist Ridge Dr.           Valleys Ay Geist           25
Geist Ridge Dr.           Canal Place             25
                                                     40 from Fall Creek North
Geist Rd.                                            to East 106th
                                                     35 from north of east
                                                     106th to East 111th St.
Geist View Dr.            Springs of Cambridge       25
Geist Woods Cir.          Geist Woods                20
Geist Woods Ct.           Geist Woods                20
Geist Woods E Dr.         Geist Woods                20
Geist Woods Ln.           Geist Woods                20
Geist Woods S Dr.         Geist Woods                20
Geist Woods Trce.         Geist Woods                20
                                                     From East 96th St.
Georgia Rd.                                          northbound to East 104th
                                                     St.
Gillingham Pl.            Cottingham Estates         25
Gilmore Dr.               Hunters Run                25
Girvan Way                Turnberry                  25
Giselle Way               Canal Place                25
Gladstone Ct.             Woods at Gray Eagle        25
Gloria Dr.                Britton Falls              25
Golden Ridge Ln.          Springs of Cambridge       25
Grappa Trail              Britton Falls              25
Gray Eagle Dr.            Links at Gray Eagle        25
Gulfstream Ct.            Masthead                   25
Gulfstream Dr.            Masthead                   25
Hague Rd.                                            35 Northbound East 96th
                                                     St. to East 116th St.
Halla Pl.                 River Glen                 25
Halsey Dr.                Windjammer Bay             25
Hamble Blvd.              Sandstone Lakes            25
Hanley Dr.                Gray Eagle                 25
Harbor Bay Ct.            Canal Place                25
Harbor Bay Dr.            Canal Place                25
Harriston Dr.             Sawgrass                   25
Havens Dr.                Haven                      25
Hawks Landing Dr.         Hawks Landing at Gray      25
                          Eagle
Hawks Nest Dr.            Hawks Landing at Gray      25
                          Eagle
Hawkstone Dr.             Weatherstone               25
Haywood St.               Britton Falls              25
Hearthstone Dr.           Sandstone Ridge            25
Hidden Spring Cove        Thorpe Creek               25
Highland Springs Ct.      Highland Springs           25
Highland Springs Dr.      Highland Springs           25
Hinterland Dr.            Anderson Hall              25
                                                     25 East 116th St.
Holland Dr.               Sunblest Farms             northbound to Ellipse
                                                     Parkway
Hollyhock Dr.             Woods at Gray Eagle        25
Hoosier Rd.                                          35 northbound East 106th
                                                     St. to East 126th
Horizon Ct.               Masthead                   25
Hunters Run Dr.           Hunters Run                25
IKEA Way                                             30
Iriquois Ct.              Carefree Estates           25
Island Dr.                Bridgewater                25
Jacobs Ct.                Canal Place                25
Jagged Rock Ct.           Sandstone Village          25
Jarama Ln.                Links at Gray Eagle        25
John St.                                             30 E. 116th St. northbound
                                                     to E. 117th St.
Kemp Ct.                  Canal Place                25
Key Ct.                   Canal Place                25
Keysport Lndg.            Reserve at Geist           25
   Kincaid Dr.                                    35 (from East 96th to East
                                                     106th St.)
Kindrid Cir.              Hunters Run                25
Kingdom Ct.               Canal Place                25
Kingston Dr.              Springs of Cambridge       25
Kiowa Ln.                 Carefree Estates           25
Klepfer Cir.              Anderson Hall              25
Koldyke Dr.               River Glen                 25
Koldyke Pl.               River Glen                 25
Lady of the Lake Rd.      Avalon of Fishers          25
Lake Run Dr.              Gatewood                   25
Lambrusco Way             Britton Falls              25
Landings Dr.              Masthead                   25
Landwood Dr.              Links at Gray Eagle        25
Lansbury Ln.              Silverton                  25
                                                     35 northbound East 96th to
                                                     East 106th
                                                     35 from East 106th St.
                                                     northbound to Fishers
                                                     Pointe Blvd.
                                                     25 from Fishers Pointe
Lantern Rd.                                          Blvd. northbound to East
                                                     116th St.
                                                     35 from northbound East
                                                     116th St. to East 131st
                                                     St.
                                                     25 from East 131st St.
                                                     northbound to Harrison
                                                     Parkway
Largo Dr.                 Cottonwood Creek at Gray   25
                          Eagle
Lava Rock Ct.             Sandstone Lakes            25
Ledgerock Ct.             Sandstone Lakes            25
Ledgestone Cr.            Sandstone Lakes            25
Limestone Dr.             Sandstone Lakes            25
Little Rock Ct.           Sandstone Ridge            25
Loire Valley Dr.          Britton Falls              25
Madison Brooks Dr.        Brooks Landing             25
Malbec St.                Britton Falls              25
Mancroft Dr.              Silverton                  25
                                                     35 northbound from East
Marilyn Rd.                                          131st St. to street line
                                                     of Wynsome Ct.
Mariner Ct.               Springs of Cambridge       25
Marjac Way                Springs of Cambridge       25
Marsla Dr.                Britton Falls              25
Matacumbe Dr.             Cottonwood Creek at Gray   25
                          Eagle
McClarnden Ct.            Boulders                   25
McClarnden Dr.            Boulders                   25
Meadow Bend Dr.           Thorpe Creek               25
Memorial Way              Hunters Run                25
Merlot Ln.                Britton Falls              25
Merryvale St.             Britton Falls              25
Mesa Valley Ct.           Sandstone Woods            25
Middlebrook Ct.           Springs of Cambridge       25
Millen Dr.                Links at Gray Eagle        25
Milton Rd.                Avalon of Fishers          25
Mojave Dr.                Sandstone Knoll            25
Mollenkopf Rd.            Devore Place               35 from East 96th to East
                                                     106th St.
Mondavi Dr.               Britton Falls              25
Moorcroft Dr.             Silverton                  25
Moscato St.               Britton Falls              25
Mosel Ct.                 Britton Falls              25
Moss Rock Ct.             Sandstone Village          25
Municipal Dr.             Town Complex               25
Napa Valley Ln.           Sandstone Knoll            25
Nautilus Cir.             Masthead                   25
Newburyport Dr.           Intracostal at Geist       25
Normandy Dr.
North by Northeast Blvd.                             35 from East 96th
                                                     eastbound to Lantern Rd.
Northeast Ridge East Dr.  The Pines                  30
Northeast Ridge North Dr. The Pines                  30
Nottingham Rd.            Cottingham Estates         25
Oakenshaw Dr.             River Glen                 25
Oakford Trl.              Britton Falls              25
Oakham Pl.                Cottingham Estates         25
Oakhurst Ln.              Oakhurst                   25
Oakleaf Way               Highland Springs           25
Old Stone Pl.             River Glen                 25
Oliver St.                Britton Falls              25
Paddock Blvd.             Reserve at Steeplechase    25
Park Central Dr.          Delaware Park              30
Parkside Dr.              Fishers Marketplace        25
Pavestone Ct.             Sandstone Ridge            25
Pendragon Way             Avalon of Fishers          25
Perched Owl Run           Fox Hollow at Geist        25
Piper Glen Blvd.          Piper Glen                 25
Port View Ln.             Springs of Cambridge       25
                                                     from East 136th St. to
Prairie Baptist Rd.                                  1958 feet south of this
                                                     intersection
                                                     35 from East 126th St.
                                                     northbound to East 131st
Promise Rd.                                          St.
                                                     40 from East 136th St.
                                                     north to East 141st St.
Proposal Pointe Way       Reserve at Geist           25
Provincial Ln.            Ravinia                    25
Publishers Dr.            Fishers Trade Center       Private Road
Pymbroke Cr.              River Glen                 25
Pymbroke Dr.              River Glen                 25
Pymbroke Way              River Glen                 25
Pymbroke Pl.              River Glen                 25
Quarry Ct.                Sandstone Lakes            25
Quarry Face Ct.           Sandstone Meadows          25
Red Hawk Dr.              Links at Gray Eagle        25
Reston Ln.                Springs of Cambridge       25
Rexham Ct.                Cottingham Estates         25
Reynolds Dr.                                         25
Rhone Trl.                Britton Falls              25
Ridgeside Rd.             Bridgewater                25
Ringer Rd.                                           35
River Valley Dr.          Sandstone Meadows          25
Roca Ct.                  Ravinia                    25
Rocky Mountain Ct.        Sandstone Village          25
Rocky Pointe Rd.          Springs of Cambridge       25
Ruxton Ct.                Ravinia                    25
Saddlestone Dr.           Weatherstone               25
Sand Dollar Cir.          Masthead                   25
Sand Dollar Ct.           Masthead                   25
Sea Side Ct.              Bayview Estates            25
Sea Side Dr.              Bayview Estates            25
Sea Star Cir.             Masthead                   25
Sea Star Ct.              Masthead                   25
Sea Star Dr.              Masthead                   25
Sea Star Way              Masthead                   25
Sequoia Stone Ct.         Sandstone Crossing         25
Serra Vista Pte.          Reserve at Geist           25
Shady Knoll Dr.           Thorpe Creek               25
Shady Meadow Ct.          Rolling Meadow             25
Shakespear Way            Avalon of Fishers          25
Sherwood Forest Way       Avalon of Fishers          25
Shiraz Ln.                Britton Falls              25
Shoreline Blvd.           Springs of Cambridge       25
Stoney Shore Ave.         Timberstone Villas         25
Silverado Dr.             Sandstone Lakes            25
Silverleaf Blvd.          Silverton                  25
Silverstone Dr.           Links at Gray Eagle        25
Sinndar Ln.               Sanctuary at Steeplechase  25
Skyhawk Ct.               Woods at Gray Eagle        25
Slate Dr.                 Sandstone Meadows          25
Slip Anchor Ln.           Sanctuary at Steeplechase  25
Soaring Eagle Dr.         Fox Hollow at Geist        25
Soave Trl.                Britton Falls              25
Solomons Ct.              Masthead                   25
Southeastern Pkwy.        From 113th Street north    50
                          for 1,300 ft.
Split Granite             Sandstone Meadows          25
Springs Dr.               Highland Springs           25
Springstone Rd.           Springs of Cambridge       25
Springwood Ct.            Highland Springs           25
Spruance Ct.              Masthead                   25
St. George Blvd.          Burberry Place             25
St. George Ct.            Burberry Place             25
Stella Ct.                Canal Place                25
Stepping Stone Dr.        Sandstone Lakes            25
Steward Ct.               Canal Place                25
Stonegate Dr.             Weatherstone               25
Summer Hollow Dr.         Haven                      25
Summerton Dr.             Haven                      25
Sunnyview Ln.             Haven                      25
Talon Crest Dr.           Gray Eagle                 25
Tamenend Ct.              Tamenend                   25
Tamenend Trc.             Tamenend                   25
Tarver Ct.                Woods at Gray Eagle        25
Tasman Cr.                Links at Gray Eagle        25
Tavarez Ct.               Brooks Landing             25
Tavernier Dr.             Cottonwood Creek at Gray   25
                          Eagle
Technology Way            Nickel Plate District      25
Thor Run Dr.              Brooks Manor               25
Thor Run Pl.              Brooks Manor               25
Timber Lane Dr.           Whitmire Glen              25
Timber Lane Pl.           Whitmire Glen              25
Timberwood Ln.            Ambria                     25
Timken Ct.                Links at Gray Eagle        25
Top Rock Ct.              Sandstone Lakes            25
Trebbiano Dr.             Britton Falls              25
Trebbiano Dr.             Dell Webb                  30 from Dell Webb to dead
                                                     end
Treeswing Dr.             Anderson Hall              25
Tufton Ct.                Burberry Place             25
Tufton St.                Burberry Place             25
Tumbleweed Ct.            Sandstone Knoll            25
Turner Hollow Pl.         Reserve at Geist           25
USA Dr.                                              Private
USA Pky.                                             35
Valhalla Ln.              Cottonwood Crk. at Gray    25
                          Eagle
Valley Crossing Dr.       Thorpe Creek               25
Venito Trl.               Britton Falls              25
Vinetree Trail            Britton Falls              25
Vintner Dr.               Britton Falls              25
Visionary Way             Northeast Commercial Park  15 (Charles Schwab
                                                     Business)
Volcanic Rock Dr.         Sandstone Woods            25
Wading Crane Ave.         Fox Hollow at Geist        25
                                                     25 from East 116th St.
Wainwright Blvd.          Sunblest Farms             northbound to Sunblest
                                                     South Blvd.
Walker Ln.                Links at Gray Eagle        25
Wandering Woods Ct.       Haven                      25
Waterway Blvd.            Canal Place                25
Wayside Rd.               Bridgewater                25
Weathered Edge Dr.        Sandstone Lakes            25
Whitebridge Dr.           Woods at Gray Eagle        25
Wild Turkey Row           Fox Hollow at Geist        25
                                                     40 (from Allisonville Rd.
Willowview Rd.                                       southbound to East 96th
                                                     St.)
Windjammer Ct.            Windjammer Bay             25
Windjammer Dr. N          Windjammer Bay             25
Windjammer Dr. S          Windjammer Bay             25
Windjammer Trce.          Windjammer Bay             25
Windswept Dr.             Sandstone Village          25
Winery Way                Britton Falls              25
Winning Ticket Ct.        Brooks Park                25
Witherbee Ct.             The Highlands at Gray      25
                          Eagle
Witherbee Ln.             The Highlands at Gray      25
                          Eagle
Wolffe Dr.                River Glen                 25
Woodstock Way             Covington Grove            25
Yosemite Ct.              Sandstone Knoll            25
 
   (B)   In accordance with §
71.18 the following are determined to be in the immediate vicinity of a school
and the maximum speed limits shall be set forth in this schedule upon those
streets or portions thereof.
Street Name Speed Limit
Street Name        Speed Limit
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 64 feet north of
Eller Road         Roundup Trail continuing for both directions on Eller Road
                   to 200 feet north of Manchester Drive.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 174feet west of
141st Street       Harrison Parkway continuing for both directions on 141st
                   Street to 627 feet east of Harrison Parkway.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 109 feet north of
Harrison Parkway   141st Street continuing for both directions on Harrison
                   Parkway to 12 feet south of Delaney Drive.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 40 feet south of
                   Birmingham Lane continuous for both directions on Lantern
                   Road to 35 feet south of 131st Street roundabout.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 99 feet south of
                   South Street continuous for both directions on Lantern Road
Lantern Road       to 43feet north of Birch Street.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 294 feet north of
                   106th Street roundabout continuous for both directions on
                   Lantern Road to 232 feet north of Jaywick Drive.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 160 feet north of
                   121st Street continuous for both directions on Lantern Road
                   to 435 feet south of Turin Court.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 134 feet east of
131st Street       Lantern Farms Drive continuous for both directions on 131st
                   Street to 127 feet east of Lantern Road roundabout.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 194 feet west of
106th Street       Muir Lane continuous in both directions on 106th Street to
                   288 feet west of Lantern Road roundabout.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 217 feet south of
Cumberland Road    Indigo Lane continuous in both directions on Cumberland Road
                   to 247 feet north of 131st Street roundabout.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 141 feet west of
131st Street       Promise Road continuous for both directions on 131st Street
                   to 252 feet east of eastern entrance of Sand Creek
                   Intermediate School.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 169 feet north of
Promise Road       131st Street continuous for both directions on Promise Road
                   to 297 feet north of Billericay Park Entrance.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 223 feet east of
121st Street       Bird Key Boulevard continuous for both directions on 121st
                   Street to intersection with Hoosier Road.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 362 feet south of
Hoosier Road       121st Street continuous for both directions on Hoosier Road
                   to 720 feet south of New Traditions Boulevard.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 517 feet south of
Brooks School Road 126th Street continuous for both directions on Brooks School
                   Road to 65 feet north of Broadmoor Court.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 262 feet west of
                   Olio Road continuous for both directions on 126th Street to
126th Street       360 feet east of Royalty Drive.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 270 feet west of
                   Thames Drive continuous for both directions on 126th Street
                   to 171 feet east of Thorpe Creek Drive.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 292 feet east of
104th Street       Olio Road continuous for both directions on 104th Street to
                   162 feet west of Crestmoor Lane.
                   25 mph School Zone speed limit beginning 155 feet north of
Cytheanne Road     Southeastern Parkway continuous for both directions on
                   Cyntheanne Road to 109 feet north of 126th Street.
 
   (C)   In accordance with §
71.19 the maximum speed limit shall be set forth in this schedule upon those
streets or portions thereof.
Street Name Subdivision Name Speed Limit
Street Name                        Subdivision Name                 Speed Limit
131st Street                       Saxony                           25
133rd Place                                                        30
134th Street                       Saxony                           25
136th Street                       Within Saxony                    25
Aberdeen Court                     Sterling Green                   25
Acadia Place                       Conner Knoll                     25
Ackerley Drive                     The Boulders                     25
Adam Court                         Summerfield                      25
Ailsa Craig Point                  Turnberry                        25
Alamosa Drive                      Pleasantview                     25
Alamosa Drive                      Ridgefield                       25
Alberta Street                     Whelchel Springs                 25
Albion Court                       Sweet Briar North                25
Aldenham Boulevard                 Brookston Place                  25
Alderwood Court                    Eller Trails                     25
Aleene Way                         Sandcreek Farms                  25
Alexander Lane                     Roxbury                          25
Alice Court                        Northpointe                      25
All American Road                  Brooks Chase                     25
Allegiance Drive                   Brooks Chase                     25
Allyana Place                      Conner Knoll                     25
Alston Drive                       Saxony                           25
Altamount Drive                    The Woods at Geist Overlook      25
Altavista Court                    Walnut Hills                     25
Alton Court                        Covington Estates                25
Alvernon Place                     Sedona Woods                     25
Alyssa Way                         Summerfield                      25
Alzada Drive                       Bridger Pines                    25
Amber Glow Court                   Lantern Pines                    25
Ambergate Drive                    Tanglewood                       25
Ambria Drive                       Ambria                           25
Amherst Drive                      Harvard Park                     25
Andorra Drive                      Conner Knoll                     25
Adreas Court                       Canyon Ridge                     25
Angel Berry Circle                 Woodberry                        25
Anthem Avenue                      Brooks Chase                     25
Antone Court                       The Woods at Geist Overlook      25
Anvil Court                        Heritage Meadows                 25
Appel Drive                        Fishersdale                      25
Apple Blossom Circle               Woodberry                        25
Apple Tree Circle                  Sunblest Orchard                 25
Apple Tree Court                   Sunglest Orchard                 25
Apple Tree Drive                   Sunblest Orchard                 25
April Rose Drive                   The Preserve at Arbor Pines      25
Archer Lane                        Archer Estates                   25
Ardennes Drive                     Harrison Woods                   25
Ari Lane                           Avalon                           25
Arielle Drive                      Seven Oaks                       25
Arranwood Lane                     Westminster                      25
Arvada Place                       Ridgefield                       25
Ascot Circle                       Avalon                           25
Ashbury Circle                     Heritage Green                   25
Ashcott Drive                      Hunters Run                      25
Ashland Drive                      Oak Hill                         25
Ashley Lane                        Hickory Woods                    25
Ashton Drive                       Sunblest                         25
Ashton Lane                        Sunblest                         25
Ashton Place                       Sunblest                         25
Ashview Drive                      Ashwood                          25
Ashwood Drive                      Ashwood                          25
Aspen Drive                        Sandcreek                        25
Atwood Court                       Sunblest                         25
Atwood Place                       Sunblest                         25
Aubry Lane                         Geist Manor                      25
Auburn Springs Circle              Auburn Springs                   25
Audrie Court                       Summerfield                      25
Aurora Court                       Auburn Springs                   25
Autumn Frost Circle                Wintercove                       25
Autumn Harvest Drive               Heritage Meadows                 25
Autumn View Way                    Woods at Thorpe Creek            25
Avalon Boulevard                   Avalon                           25
Avalon East Drive                  Avalon                           25
Avalon West Drive                  Avalon                           25
Avernon Place                      Sedona Woods                     25
Avila Way                          Amberglow                        25
Avon Cross Way                     Avalon                           25
Awaken Drive                       Whelchel Springs                 25
Ayshire Way                        Piper Glen                       25
Babson Court                       Harrison Parks                   25
Backstretch Row                    Brooks Park                      25
Bagham Drive                       Avalon                           25
Bailey Way                         Summerfield                      25
Balbo Place                        Tanglewood                       25
Balfour Road                       Avalon                           25
Ballew Boulevard                   Lantern Ridge                    25
Balroyal Court                     Windermere Point                 25
Barhill Court                      Sterling Green                   25
Barnett Place                      Harrison Parks                   25
Barons Court                       Avalon                           25
Barstow Drive                      Harrison Parks                   25
Bartlett Drive                     Tanglewood                       25
Bassette Ridge                     The Boulders                     25
Bay Lane                           Delaware Crossing                25
Bay Willow Drive                   Townes at Avalon North           25
Beardsley Way                      Canyon Ridge                     25
Beardsley Way                      Sedona Woods                     30
Bears Way                          Bristols                         25
Beaver Ridge Drive                 Overlook at Beaver Ridge         25
Becker Court                       Eller Trails                     25
Becketts Court                     Spyglass Hills                   25
Beech Drive                        Gatewood                         25
Bellamy Court                      Silverton                        25
Belle Plaine Boulevard             Rolling Knoll at Hoosier Woods   25
Bellhaven Drive                    Westminster                      25
Bellingham Boulevard               South Avalon                     25
Bellows Avenue                     Grantham                         25
Bengals Drive                      Bristols                         25
Bent Creek Court                   Windermere                       25
Bent Tree Lane                     Windermere                       25
Bentley Boulevard                  Sunblest                         25
Bentwater Lane                     Sawgrass                         25
Beresford Court                    Sweet Briar North                25
Berry Patch Lane                   Sumerlin Trail                   25
Bicknell Circle                    Northpointe                      25
Biddle Drive                       Oak Hall                         25
Bighorn Court                      Harrison Parks                   25
Bills Avenue                       Bristols                         25
Birch Street                       Fishersdale                      25
Bird Key Boulevard                 Rolling Knoll at Hoosier Woods   25
Birmingham Lane                    Cottingham Estates               25
Bittern Circle                     Hamilton Proper                  25
Bittersweet Lane                   Timber Springs                   25
Black Canyon Court                 Canyon Ridge                     25
Black Hills Drive                  Limeston Springs                 25
Black Mill Pass                    Grantham                         25
Black Pine Court                   Pine Bluff Overlook              25
Black Willow Lane                  Bridger Pines                    25
Blackhorn Court                    Berkley Grove                    25
Blacksmith Court                   Heritage Meadows                 25
Blooming Orchard Drive             Anderson Hall                    25
Blue Meadow Drive                  Rolling Meadow                   25
Blue Sky Drive                     Cumberland Woods                 25
Blue Springs Lane                  Cumberland Woods                 25
Blue Spruce Drive                  Pine Bluff Overlook              25
Blueberry Lane                     Sawgrass                         25
Bluebird Court                     Hamilton Proper                  25
Bluegrass Court                    Berkley Grove                    25
Bluestone Way                      Bluestone                        25
Bodley Place                       Oak Hall                         25
Bootham Close                      Sweet Briar North                25
Boothbay Lane                      Estates of Meadow Brook          25
Bordeaux Way                       Britton Falls                    25
Boston Way                         Fishers Pointe                   25
Boulder Canyon Drive               Canyon Ridge                     25
Boxwood Court                      Bradford Knoll                   25
Boysenberry Drive                  Woodberry                        25
Bradford Court                     Hamilton Proper                  25
Bradford Knoll                     Bradford Knoll                   25
Braewick Circle                    Windermere                       25
Bramkrist Drive                    Woodberry                        25
Brangton Drive                     Brooskton Place                  25
Branham Drive                      The Preserve at Arbor Pines      25
Breakers Lane                      The Preserve at Arbor Pines      25
Brean Way                          Somerset                         25
Breenan Circle                     Hunters Run                      25
Brennan Court                      Weaver Woods North               25
Brevard Drive                      Harrison Lakes                   25
Briar Stone Lane                   Berkley Grove                    25
Briargate Drive                    Grantham                         25
Brighton Circle                    Northfield Estates               25
Brightwater Drive                  Plantana                         25
Brightwater Drive                  Auburn Springs                   25
Brisbane Drive                     Harrison Lakes                   25
Bristlecone Drive                  Eller Trails                     25
Bristow Lane                       Avalon                           25
Brittany Way                       Northfield Estates               25
Britton Park Road                  Fishers Trade Center             25
Britton Park Road                  New Britton Commercial Park      30
Britton Ridge                      Britton Ridge                    25
Brixton Lane                       Spyglass Hills                   25
Broad Leaf Lane                    Hickory Woods                    25
Broadmoor Court North              Greystone                        25
Broadmoor Court South              Greystone                        25
Broncos Drive                      Bristols                         25
Bronson Drive                      Harrison Parks                   25
Brook Meadow Drive                 Westbrooke at Geist              25
Brook Wood Drive                   Villas at Timberstone            25
Brook Wood Drive                   Westbrooke at Geist              25
Brookdale Drive                    Brookfield                       25
Brookhaven Drive                   Brookfield                       25
Brookridge Court                   Spyglass Hills                   25
Brooks Crossing                    Hamilton Proper                  25
Brooks Drive                       Westbrooke at Geist              25
Brooks Edge Circle                 Timberstone                      25
Brooks Edge Lane                   Timberstone                      25
Brooks Edge Lane                   Brooks Park                      25
Brooks Park Boulevard              Brooks Park                      25
Brookwood Place                    Brookfield                       25
Brothers Court                     Bradford Knoll                   25
Brown Jack Drive                   Reserve at Steeplechase          25
Bruddy Drive                       Fishers Farms                    25
Brunn Place                        Ridgefield                       25
Brunswick Drive                    Fishers Pointe                   25
Brushfield Lane                    Brookston Place                  25
Bryce Way                          Summerfield                      25
Bryden Drive                       Sunblest                         25
Bryden Place                       Sunblest                         25
Buccaneers Way                     Bristols                         25
Bucking Horse Court                Brooks Park                      25
Buffett Parkway                    Conner Knoll                     25
Burning Ridge Lane                 Quaker Ridge                     25
Butler Lane                        Canyon Ridge                     25
Cabri Lane                         Village of Meadow Brook          25
Cakmanor Way                       Somerset                         25
Calibouge Drive                    Spyglass Hills                   25
Caliburn Court                     Sweet Briar                      25
Calluna Court                      Heather Pointe                   25
Calming Waters                     The Oaks of Kraus Square         25
Cambridge Drive                    Sunblest Countryview             25
Camby Crossing                     Northpointe                      25
Camden Court                       Oxford Park                      25
Camelot House Way                  Avalon                           25
Cameron Drive                      Sunblest                         25
Cameron Place                      Sunblest                         25
Candice Drive                      Sandcreek Farms                  25
Cannington Circle                  Somerset                         25
Canonbury Way                      Avalon                           25
Cantor Chase Crossing              Belmont Place at Brooks Park     25
Capulin Court                      The Woods at Geist Overlook      25
Carlisle Way                       Northpointe                      25
Carly Court                        Sunblest                         25
Carly Place                        Sunblest                         25
Carnaby Place                      Tanglewood                       25
Carney Drive                       North by Northeast Business Park 25
Carolina Court                     Plantana                         25
Cascades Court                     Spyglass Falls                   25
Casco Court                        Estates of Meadow Brook          25
Castetter Court                    Lantern Ridge                    25
Castlewood Court                   Royalwood                        25
Catalina Drive                     Sedona Woods                     25
Catboat Court                      Bluestone                        25
Caterwood Circle                   Hunters Run                      25
Cedar Drive                        Sandcreek                        25
Cermack Way                        Tanglewood                       25
Chaldean Circle                    Covington Estates                25
Champagne Street                   Britton Falls                    25
Champions Boulevard                Bristols                         25
Chandelle Lane                     Britton Falls                    25
Chandler Way                       Sedona Woods                     25
Chapelwood Drive                   Knoll at Thorpe Creek            25
Chapelwood Lane                    Knoll at Thorpe Creek            25
Chapelwood Lane                    Royalwood                        25
Chapelwood Lane                    Geist Overlook                   25
Chargers Court                     Bristols                         25
Charleston Parkway                 Charleston Crossing              25
Charleston Parkway/Tufton          Charleston Crossing              25
Charleswood Court                  Plantana                         25
Cheerleaders Court                 Bristols                         25
Cherry Blossom East Drive          Cherry Hill Farms                25
Cherry Blossom West Drive          Cherry Hill Farms                25
Cherry Hill Boulevard              Cherry Hill Farms                25
Cherry Hill Court                  Cherry Hill Farms                25
Cherry Laurel Lane                 Cherry Hill Farms                25
Chesney Drive                      Tanglewood                       25
Chestnut Hill Circle               Hamilton Proper                  25
Cheswick Lane                      Windermere                       25
Chiefs Court                       Bristols                         25
Chipmunk Crossing                  Wildwood Estates                 25
Chisholm Drive                     Canyon Ridge                     25
Chisholm Drive                     Westminster                      25
Cholla Road                        Village of Meadow Brook          25
Cholla Road                        Tamarisk                         25
Chorleywood Circle                 Avalon                           25
Chuckwalla Place                   The Preserve at Arbor Pines      25
Churchill Court                    Sunblest Countryview             25
Cider Mill Court                   Wintercove                       25
Clay Brook Drive                   Westbrooke at Geist              25
Claymore Drive                     Sterling Green                   25
Claymount Lane                     Delaware Crossing                25
Clear Sky Court                    Rolling Knoll Hoosier Woods      25
Cleary Trace Drive                 Prescott of Fishers              25
Cliffwood Drive                    Cumberland Place                 25
Clifton Court                      Strongbow Gate                   25
Clifty Drive                       Ambria                           25
Clove Hitch Court                  Intracoastal of Geist            25
Clover Hill Trace                  Knoll at Thorpe Creek            25
Clover Hill Trace                  Thorpe Creek                     25
Cloverfield Circle                 Anderson Hall                    25
Club Pointe Drive                  Hamilton Proper                  25
Coastal Place                      Piper Glen                       25
Cobalt Drive                       Fishers Farm                     25
Cobalt Drive                       Indigo Lakes                     25
Cobblestone Drive                  Oak Hall                         25
Cody Lane                          Sawgrass                         25
Colbarn Court                      Sunblest                         25
Colbarn Drive                      Sunblest Farms                   25
Colbarn Place                      Sunblest                         25
Cold Spring Drive                  Anderson Hall                    25
Colonial Circle                    Charleston Crossing              25
Colonial Court                     Charleston Crossing              25
Columbia Circle                    Oxford Park                      25
Commercial Drive                   Fishers Corner                   25
Commonwealth Drive                 Britton Ridge                    25
Concord Court                      Sunblest Countryview             25
Concord Drive                      Sunblest Countryview             25
Conifer Court                      Pine Bluff Overlook              25
Conner Knoll Parkway               Conner Knoll                     25
Conner Knoll Parkway               Harrison Parks                   25
Conner Knoll Parkway               Harrison Green                   25
Conner Knoll Parkway               Weaver Woods                     25
Conway Court                       Covington Estates                25
Cool Winds Way                     Sumerlin Trail                   25
Copper Boulevard                   Canyon Ridge                     25
Copper Cove Way                    The Cove                         25
Copper Mines Way                   Limestone Springs                25
Copper Ridge Drive                 Brooks Park                      25
Copper Saddle Bend                 Brooks Park                      25
Copper Springs Way                 Brooks Park                      25
Corbin Drive                       Sunblest                         25
Corday Court                       Sunblest                         25
Corning Way                        Northpointe                      25
Corona Court                       Whelchel Springs                 25
Corydon Drive                      Hunters Run                      25
Cosel Way                          Saxony                           25
Cotton Blossom Drive               Woodberry                        25
Country Apple Court                Woodberry                        25
Country Breeze Lane                The Oaks of Kraus Square         25
Coupler Drive                      Intracoastal of Geist            25
Courage Crossing                   Brooks Chase                     25
Courtney Drive                     Stevenson Mill                   25
Covington Boulevard                Covington Estates                25
Cowboys Court                      Bristols                         25
Coyote Run                         Pleasantview                     25
Cranberry Circle                   Plantana                         25
Craycroft Court                    Sedona Woods                     25
Creekridge Lane                    Cambridge                        25
Creekside Court                    Sunblest                         25
Creekside Drive                    Sunblest                         25
Creekside Lane                     Sunblest                         25
Creektree Lane                     Sweet Briar North                25
Creektree Lane                     Rosewood                         25
Creekview Lane                     Eller Run                        25
Cressida Way                       Brookston Place                  25
Cresswell Place                    Avalon                           25
Crestridge Court                   Bradford Knoll                   25
Crestview Court                    Sunblest Countryview             25
Crestwater Court                   The Cove                         25
Cross County Court                 Rolling Knoll at Hoosier Woods   25
Crossing Drive                     Delaware Crossing                25
Crosswinds Drive                   Windermere                       25
Crows Nest                         Wildwood Estates                 25
Crum Court                         Iron Pointe                      25
Crystal Falls Lane                 Walnut Hills                     25
Cuchara Court                      The Woods at Geist Overlook      25
Cullerton Way                      Tanglewood                       25
Cumberland Park Drive              Bradford Ridge                   25
Cypress Drive                      Plantana                         25
Cyntheanne Road                    Whelchel Springs                 25
Darby Dale Court                   Westminster                      25
Davis Way                          Berkley Grove                    25
Dawn Run Drive                     Reserve at Steeplechase          25
Dawson Drive                       Sunblest                         25
Daybreak Circle                    Wintercove                       25
Dearborn Circle                    Auburn Springs                   25
Deer Bank Road                     Hunters Run                      25
Deer Run Circle                    Windermere                       25
Deer Stone Way                     Ashford Point                    25
Deering Street                     Spyglass Hills                   25
Dekoven Drive                      Tanglewood                       25
Delaney Drive                      Weaver Woods North               25
Delaware Parkway                   Summerfield                      25
Delight Creek Road                 Wildwood Estates                 25
Delinger Drive                     Britton Ridge                    25
Delmore Drive                      Sanctuary at Steeplechase        25
Delphi Court                       Northpointe                      25
Denrose Drive                      Bridger Pines                    25
Descanso Drive                     Anderson Hall                    25
Desert Rose Drive                  Whelchel Springs                 25
Desert Glen Drive                  Sandstone Knoll                  25
Desplaines Drive                   Tanglewood                       25
Destry Place                       Sunblest                         25
Devon Court                        Gatewood                         25
Dewitt Drive                       Tanglewood                       25
Dewpoint Lane                      Townes at Avalon North           25
Dickinson Court                    Weaver Creek                     25
Dillon Place                       Ridgefield                       25
Dobbins Drive                      Canyon Ridge                     25
Dobbins Drive                      Sedona Woods                     30
Dolphins Drive                     Bristols                         25
Donavan Lane                       Sutton Crossing                  25
Doncaster Court                    Brookston Place                  25
Doral Circle                       Windermere Pointe                25
Dorster Drive                      Saxony                           25
Dorster Street                     Saxony                           25
Dover Court                        Harvard Park                     25
Dover Court                        Oxford Park                      25
Downham Drive                      Hunters Run                      25
Drake Drive                        Sedona Woods                     25
Dresdin Court                      Saxony                           25
Drumdow Lane                       Turnberry                        25
Duck Pond Drive                    Wildwood Estates                 25
Duncan Drive                       Sedona Woods                     25
Dunton Way                         Hunters Run                      25
Eagles Watch                       Wildwood Estates                 25
East Elster Way                    Carriage Manor                   25
East Park Court                    Fishers Trade Center             25
Eastpark Circle West               Hunters Run                      25
Eastwood Lane                      Ashwood                          25
Easy Street                        Amberglow                        25
Easy Street                        Wintercove                       25
Eaton Court                        Princeton Park                   25
Ebbert Drive                       Steeplechase Sanctuary           25
Eddington Place                    South Avalon                     25
Edgebrook Drive                    Brooks Park                      25
Effingham Road                     Cottingham Estates               25
Elbe Street                        Saxony                           25
Eller Run                          Eller Run                        25
Ellington Drive                    Prescott of Fishers              25
Ellipse Parkway                    Sunblest                         25
Ellsworth Lane                     Sedona Woods                     25
Elmfair Court                      Tanglewood                       25
Ely Road                           Avalon                           25
Emerald Isle Court                 Cumberland Woods                 25
Emery Way                          Summerfield                      25
Emmanuel Court                     Heritage Meadows                 25
End Zone Drive                     Bristols                         25
Endurance Drive                    Brooks Chase                     25
Enmore Park                        Somerset                         25
Ensley Court                       Sunblest Orchard                 25
Ensley Drive                       Sunblest Orchard                 25
Ensley Place                       Sunblest Orchard                 25
Enterprise Drive                   Parkside                         25
Eric Court                         Summerfield                      25
Erie Place                         Tanglewood                       25
Erlen Drive                        Saxony                           25
Eucalyptus Lane                    Woodberry                        25
Evergreen Point                    Hamilton Proper                  25
Exeter Court                       Weaver Creek                     25
Fairway Ridge Lane                 Sawgrass                         25
Fairwoods Drive                    Windermere                       25
Falling Water Way                  Spyglass Falls                   25
Fantina Lane                       The Boulders                     25
Farley Drive                       Sunblest                         25
Farley Place                       Sunblest                         25
Fathom Lane                        Intracoastal of Geist            25
Fawns Dell Place                   Fawnsbrook                       25
Fawns Ridge                        Fawnsbrook                       25
Fawns Run                          Fawnsbrook                       25
Fawnsbrook Drive                   Fawnsbrook                       25
Fawnsbrook Place                   Fawnsbrook                       25
Fernie Circle                      Turnberry                        25
Fieldcrest Drive                   Ambria                           25
Fielding Way                       Hunters Run                      25
Fieldstone Place                   River Highlands                  25
Fireside Lane                      Fishers Farms                    25
Fishers Center Drive                                               25
Fishers Drive                                                      25
Fishers Pointe Boulevard           Heritage Meadows                 25
Floral Hall Place                  Somerset                         25
Floral Hall Place                  Oak Hall                         25
Flower Mound Place                 Rolling Knoll at Hoosier Woods   25
Ford Circle                        Fairlane Center                  25
Ford Drive                         Fairlane Center                  25
Fordham Way                        Harvard Park                     25
Forest Drive                       Timber Springs                   25
Forest Meadow Circle               Timberstone                      25
Forewood Lane                      Grantham                         25
Forsythia Lane                     Woodberry                        25
Founders Place                     Heritage Meadows                 25
Fountainview Lane                  Heritage Meadows                 25
Fox Creek Lane                     Fox Run                          25
Fox Run Court                      Fox Run                          25
Foxboro Lane                       Roxbury                          25
Foxtail Court                      Berkley Grove                    25
Frances Street                     Morgan Meadows                   25
Franklin Court                     Harvard Park                     25
Freedom Drive                      Brooks Chase                     25
Front Street                       State of Fishers                 25
Frontier Street                    Fishers Farms                    25
Fuller Court                       Lantern Ridge                    25
Fulton Drive                       Sweet Briar North                25
Gammel Place                       Geist Manor                      25
Gainesway Circle                   Brooks Park                      25
Galileo Drive                      Steeplechase Sanctuary           25
Gallatin Way                       Bridger Pines                    25
Gallop Lane                        Steeplechase Reserve             25
Galloway Circle                    Sterling Green                   25
Garrano Lane                       Steeplechase Sanctuary           25
Gate Circle                        Gatewood                         25
Gateway Drive                      Delaware Pointe                  25
Gatweood Lane                      Gatewood                         25
Gatwick View Drive                 Geist Overlook                   25
Gaylen Court                       Bridger Pines                    25
Geist View Drive                   Springs of Cambridge             25
Geist Woods North Drive            Geist Woods                      25
Geist Woods Way                    Geist Woods                      25
Gentry Drive                       Cumberland Place                 25
Geyser Court                       Limestone Springs                25
Gilbert Lane                       Sedona Woods                     25
Gilmour Court                      Hunters Run                      25
Gilmour Drive                      Hunters Run                      25
Giovanni Stevanato Drive                                           25
Girvan Way                         Turnberry                        25
Gladden Lane                       Sedona Woods                     25
Gladeview Drive                    Anderson Hall                    25
Glapthorn Road                     Avalon                           25
Glass Chimney Lane                 Lantern Pines                    25
Glastonbury Court                  Avalon of Fishers                25
Glazer Way                         Ridgefield                       25
Glen Haven Court                   Woods Edge at Windermere         25
Glenburr Court                     Britton Ridge                    25
Glengary Drive                     Britton Ridge                    25
Glenhaven Court                    Woods Edge at Windermere         25
Glenn Abbey Lane                   Windermere                       25
Glenn Cairn Court                  Windermere                       25
Glenside Drive                     Tanglewood                       25
Glenvista Place                    River Highlands                  25
Glenwell Drive                     Westminster                      25
Glenwood Lane                      Sunblest Orchard                 25
Glowing Flame Drive                Lantern Pines                    25
Golden Ash Court                   Ashwood                          25
Golden Fox Court                   Knoll at Thorpe Creek            25
Goldenrod Lane                     Sunblest Orchard                 25
Goodloe Drive                      Oak Hall                         25
Gooseberry Drive                   Woodberry                        25
Governors Lane                     Windermere                       25
Granby Court                       The Woods at Geist Overlook      25
Grand Fir Drive                    Bridger Pines                    25
Granger Court                      Sunblest                         25
Granite Ridge Circle               Granite Ridge                    25
Grapevine Lane                     Rosewood                         25
Gray Ghost Way                     Grantham                         25
Great Blue Trace                   Hamilton Proper                  25
Green Blade Drive                  Anderson Hall                    25
Greendale Lane                     Tanglewood                       25
Greenway Drive                     Heritage Green                   25
Greystoke Court                    Sterling Green                   25
Grindstone Drive                   Lake Stonebridge                 25
Grove Circle                       Walnut Hills                     25
Guardhill Lane                     Brendonshire                     25
Gunnison Court                     Ridgefield                       25
Guy Street                         Sandcreek Farms                  25
Gypsum Way                         Limestone Springs                25
Haig Point Drive                   Sawgrass                         25
Hairston Drive                     Sawgrass                         25
Halite Lane                        Limestone Springs                25
Hamden Court                       Estates of Meadow Brook          25
Hamilton Pass                      Sawgrass                         25
Hamilton Pass                      Hamilton Proper                  25
Hamilton Pass                      Quaker Ridge                     25
Hampton Place                      Sunblest                         25
Hanford Lane                       Sunblest Countryview             25
Hanover Court                      Harvard Park                     25
Harborvale Chase                   Sedona Woods                     25
Harbour Circle                     The Portage                      25
Hardwick Drive                     Sunblest                         25
Hardwick Place                     Sunblest                         25
Harlowe Drive                      Pleasantview                     25
Harrington Lane                    Fishers Pointe                   25
Harrison Parkway                   Harrison Parks                   25
Harrison Parkway                   Harrison Green                   25
Harrison Pointe                    Harrison Pointe                  25
Hartford Lane                      Sunblest Countryview             25
Hartswood Drive                    Hunters Run                      25
Harvest Glen Boulevard             Thorpe Creek                     25
Harvest Glen Boulevard South       Thorpe Creek                     25
Harvest Knoll Court                Thorpe Creek                     25
Hastings Court                     Windermere Pointe                25
Haven Cove Lane                    Springs of Cambridge             25
Hawks Lake Drive                   Fox Run                          25
Hawks Ridge Court                  Fox Run                          25
Hawkswood Lane                     Legacy at Hunters Run            25
Hawthorne Ridge                    Hamilton Proper                  25
Haxton Place                       The Woods at Geist Overlook      25
Haydon Court                       Sunblest Farms                   25
Haydon Court                       Sunblest Farms                   25
Heady Court                        Sunblest Orchard                 25
Heady Lane                         Sunblest Orchard                 25
Hearthwood Court                   Strongbow Gate                   25
Hearthwood Drive                   Timberstone                      25
Heather Lane                       Berkley Grove                    25
Heatherfield Drive                 Anderson Hall                    25
Heatherglen Circle                 Woods Edge at Windermere         25
Heatherly Way                      Brookston Place                  25
Helios Circle                      Anderson Hall                    25
Helmsley Court                     Allison Place                    25
Herald Square                      Britton Ridge                    25
Heritage Court                     Sunblest Countryview             25
Heritage Green Drive               Windermere                       25
Heroic Way                         Brooks Chase                     25
Heron Pass                         Hamilton Proper                  25
Hickory Woods Drive                Hickory Woods                    25
Hidden Falls Circle                Spyglass Falls                   25
Hidden Hollow Court                Rolling Knoll at Hoosier Woods   25
Hidden Ridge                       Berkley Grove                    25
High Cloister Court                Geist Overlook                   25
High Pointe Circle                 Rosewood                         25
Highbury Place                     Avalon                           25
Highlands Place                    River Highlands                  25
Hillsborough Drive                 Hillsborough                     25
Hillview Circle                    Eller Run                        25
Hinton Drive                       Avalon                           25
Holbrook Close                     Geist Overlook                   25
Hollowood Court                    Rosewood                         25
Holly Berry Circle                 Woodberry                        25
Home Drive                         Sunblest Countryview             25
Horse Branch Court                 Belmont Place at Brooks Park     25
Horse Branch Way                   Belmont Place at Brooks Park     25
Howe Road                          Pleasantview                     25
Huff Boulevard                     Ashwood                          25
Hurlock Drive                      Oak Hall                         25
Hyacinth Drive                     Hamilton Proper                  25
Idlewood Drive                     Idlewood                         25
Igneous Drive                      Limestone Springs                25
Imperial Court                     Courtyards of Fishers            25
Indigo Court                       Berkley Grove                    25
Indigo Lane                        Indigo Lakes                     25
Innisbrooke Lane                   Windermere Villas                25
Inverness Court                    Windermere Villas                25
Iron Pointe Drive                  Iron Pointe                      25
Isle of Man Way                    Avalon                           25
Jaguars Drive                      Bristols                         25
Jamestown Drive                    Charleston Crossing              25
Jamestown North Drive              Charleston Crossing              25
Jamestown South Drive              Charleston Crossing              25
Jamestown West Drive               Charleston Crossing              25
Jasmine Court                      Weaver Creek                     25
Jaycee Street                      Fishers Original                 25
Jennings Farm Lane                 Northpointe                      25
Jesterwood Drive                   Royalwood                        25
Joggins Lane                       Village of Meadow Brook          25
Juniper Breeze Drive               The Oaks of Kraus Square         25
Justice Crossing                   Brooks Chase                     25
Katana Circle                      Bridger Pines                    25
Kane Court                         Sunblest                         25
Kaplan Court                       Ridgefield                       25
Keams Drive                        Canyon Ridge                     25
Keel Road                          Intracoastal of Geist            25
Kelly Place                        River Highlands                  25
Kelsey Court                       Covington Estates                25
Kelsey Lane                        Stevenson Mill                   25
Kemble Court                       Sunblest                         25
Kenetta Court                      Sunblest                         25
Killington Circle                  Sawgrass                         25
Kimberlite Drive                   Limestone Springs                25
Kings Horse Way                    Brooks Park                      25
Kingston Court                     Spyglass Hills                   25
Kingwood Court                     Royalwood                        25
Kinser Court                       Sunblest                         25
Kittery Drive                      Estates of Meadow Brook          25
Klotz Farm Boulevard               Spyglass Falls                   25
Knights Way                        Avalon                           25
Knightsbridge Lane                 Spyglass Hills                   25
Knoll Crossing                     Conner Knoll                     25
Knoll Ridge                        Conner Knoll                     25
Knoll Way                          Conner Knoll                     25
Knollton Court                     Conner Knoll                     25
Knollway Court                     Conner Knoll                     25
Knollwood Place                    Conner Knoll                     25
Kylan Court                        Sunblest                         25
Kyle Court                         Summerfield                      25
Lake Stonebridge Lane              Lake Stonebridge                 25
Lake Vista Drive                   Sunblest Orchard                 25
Lakeland Drive                     Lakeside Green                   25
Lakerun Drive                      Gatewood                         25
Lakeside Drive                                                     25
Lakeside Green Drive               Windermere                       25
Lakeside Place                     Sunblest                         25
Lakeview Parkway                   Delaware Crossing                25
Lamarque Place                     Sweet Briar                      25
Lamb Drive                         Hunters Run                      25
Lambert Court                      Weaver Woods North               25
Landis Boulevard                   The Boulders                     25
Landsdowne Drive                   Lantern Farms                    25
Langham Crescent Court             Geist Overlook                   25
Lansbury Lane                      Silverton                        25
Lansing Place                      Weaver Creek                     25
Lantern Farms Drive                Lantern Farms                    25
Latana Lane                        Whelchel Springs                 25
Latrobe Court                      Oak Hall                         25
Latitude Way                       Intracoastal of Geist            25
Laurel Court                       Lantern Farms                    25
Laurel Falls Lane                  Spyglass Falls                   25
Lauren Pass                        Lakeside Green                   25
Lazy Oak Court                     Knoll at Thorpe Creek            25
Lee Stewart Lane                   Woodberry                        25
Legacy Court                       Heritage Meadows                 25
Leland Muse                        Geist Overlook                   25
Levina Lane                        Bridger Pines                    25
Lexi Lane                          Intracoastal of Geist            25
Lightship Court                    Bluestone                        25
Lincoln Court                      Heritage Meadows                 25
Linden Court                       Berkley Grove                    25
Linderman Chase                    Steeplechase Reserve             25
Linderman Chase                    The Boulders                     25
Lindsey Court                      Weaver Woods North               25
Litchfield Place                   Sedona Woods                     25
Littleton Place                    The Woods at Geist Overlook      25
Liverpool Place                    Avalon                           25
Loch Raven Boulevard               Idlewood                         25
Lock Raven Court                   Idlewood                         25
Lockburn Place                     Lantern Farms                    25
Lockerbie Lane                     Britton Ridge                    25
Locksley Place                     Sweet Briar                      25
Logan Lane                         Covington Estates                25
Loma Court                         Loma Ind Park II                 25
Lombard Court                      Lantern Farms                    25
London Road                        Avalon                           25
Long Grove Lane                    Williams Ridge                   25
Long Lake Lane                     Sumerlin Trail                   25
Long Meadow Drive                  Plantana                         25
Long Sotton Circle                 Somerset                         25
Long Sotton Lane                   Somerset                         25
Longleaf Lane                      Sterling Green                   25
Longrise Lane                      Hunters Run                      25
Lothbury Circle                    Brookston Place                  25
Loudoun Place                      Oak Hall                         25
Lowery Way                         Cyntheane Meadows                25
Loyalty Drive                      Brooks Chase                     25
Loyola Court                       Oxford Park                      25
Lubeck Drive                       Saxony                           25
Lucia Court                        Sawgrass                         25
Lucille Court                      Fishers Farms                    25
Ludlow Drive                       Estates of Meadow Brook          25
Ludwell Court                      Townes at Avalon North           25
Lundford Lane                      Allison Estates                  25
Luxor Chase                        Westminster                      25
Lydden Drive                       South Avalon                     25
Madden Drive                       Sunblest                         25
Madden Lane                        Sunblest                         25
Madden Place                       Sunblest                         25
Madeline Court                     Summerfield                      25
Madera Court                       Bridger Pines                    25
Maiden Court                       Steeplechase Reserve             25
Mainsail Court                     Spyglass Hills                   25
Majestic Way                       Brooks Chase                     25
Mallard Landing                    Wildwood Estates                 25
Mallorn Circle                     Anderson Hall                    25
Malta Court                        Legacy at Hunters Run            25
Malta Place                        Legacy at Hunters Run            25
Malta Way                          Legacy at Hunters Run            25
Manchester Drive                   Oxford Park                      25
Manifesto Drive                    Steeplechase Reserve             25
Manship Drive                      Heritage Meadows                 25
Manteo Court                       Intracoastal of Geist            25
Maple Street                       Fishers Original                 25
Mapleton Court                     Heritage Green                   25
Marble Arch Way                    Avalon                           25
Margate Court                      Britton Ridge                    25
Marisa Drive                       Weaver Creek                     25
Marlowe Court                      Sweet Briar North                25
Mary Court                         Fishers Farms                    25
Maryland Court                     Delaware Crossing                25
Mast Drive                         Intracoastal of Geist            25
Max Court                          Summerfield                      25
McDowell Drive                     Sedona Woods                     25
Mckinstray Court                   Quaker Ridge                     25
Mead Court                         Britton Ridge                    25
Meadow Bend Drive                  Knoll at Thorpe Creek            25
Meadow Lake Drive                  Plantana                         25
Meadow Lake Drive                  Auburn Springs                   25
Meadow Lane                        Sunblest Orchard                 25
Meadow Ridge Drive                 Berkley Grove                    25
Meadowbrook Drive                  Morgan Meadows                   25
Meadowlark Circle                  Wildwood Estates                 25
Meadows Drive                      Morgan Meadows                   25
Merlin Court                       Hamilton Proper                  25
Merrill Court                      Weaver Creek                     25
Mesina Circle                      Sweet Briar                      25
Middlewood Lane                    Ashwood                          25
Midnight Line Drive                Sanctuary at Steeplechase        25
Midnight Pass                      Sawgrass                         25
Milbury Drive                      Estates of Meadow Brook          25
Milton Court                       Brooks Landing                   25
Mimosa Court                       Plantana                         25
Minden Drive                       Saxony                           25
Minot Court                        Estates of Meadow Brook          25
Miranda Circle                     Sweet Briar                      25
Misty Hollow Lane                  Berkley Grove                    25
Misty Knoll Court                  Woods Edge at Windermere         25
Misty Ridge Court                  Thorpe Creek                     25
Moate Drive                        Royalwood                        25
Moll Drive                         Fishersdale                      25
Molly Court                        Heritage Meadows                 25
Monarchy Lane                      Royalwood                        25
Moonlight Path                     The Oaks of Kraus Square         25
Moore Street                       Kimberlain                       25
Moors End Circle                   Wintercove                       25
Morgan Drive                       Heritage Meadows                 25
Morgan Drive                       South Village                    25
Morning Song Drive                 The Oaks of Kraus Square         25
Morning Tide Circle                Anderson Hall                    25
Mosaic Street                      Britton Falls                    25
Moss Wood Drive                    Eller Trails                     25
Mossyrock Drive                    Anderson Hall                    25
Mud Creek Court                    Sawgrass                         25
Muirfield Trace                    Windermere                       25
Mystic Sun Court                   The Preserve at Arbor Pines      25
Naples Drive                       Plantana                         25
Naughton Lane                      The Boulders                     25
Neptune Drive                      Courtyards of Fishers            25
Nettle Lane                        Whelchel Springs                 25
New Britton Drive                  New Britton Woods                25
New Tradition Trail                Sumerlin Trail                   25
Newbury Court                      Northfield Estates               25
Niagara Boulevard                  Spyglass Falls                   25
Night Hawk Drive                   Fox Run                          25
Nightshore Lane                    Cyntheanne Meadows               25
Nightshore Lane                    Piper Glen                       25
Noble Fir Court                    Bridger Pines                    25
Nolan Drive                        Weaver Woods North               25
Norman Place                       Oak Hall                         25
Nomandy Court                      Brooks Park                      25
Normandy Way                       Brooks Park                      25
North Elster Way                   Saxony                           25
North Hampton Drive                Northfield Estates               25
Northbrook Drive                   Eller Commons                    25
Northcoat Place                    Westminster                      25
Northfield Boulevard               Northfield Estates               25
Northfield Circle                  Northfield Estates               25
Northfield Place                   Northfield Estates               25
Northhampton Drive                 Wintercove                       25
Northland Street                   Sunblest Orchard                 25
Northwood Drive                    Sunblest Orchard                 25
Norwich Court                      Estates of Meadow Brook          25
Oak Grove Court                    Fishers Farm                     25
Oak Haven Drive                    Hillsdale                        25
Oak Knoll Lane                     Delaware Pointe                  25
Oak Tree Lane                      Hickory Woods                    25
Oakcrest Court                     Windermere                       25
Oakridge Drive                     Gatewood                         25
Odessa Circle                      Intracoastal of Geist            25
Olana Drive                        Geist Manor                      25
Old Glory Drive                    Brooks Chase                     25
Olympia Drive                      Windermere Village               25
Orange Blossom Trail               Woodberry                        25
Orchard Boulevard                  Sunblest Orchard                 25
Ostara Court                       Hamilton Proper                  25
Outrippers Drive                   Reserve at Steeplechase          25
Overcrest Drive                    Bradford Ridge                   25
Overlook Court                     Berkley Grove                    25
Overview Drive                     Saxony                           25
Oxbridge Place                     Avalon                           25
Packard Drive                      Hillsborough                     25
Packers Drive                      Bristols                         25
Paddington Parkway                 Avalon                           25
Palisades Court                    Royalwood                        25
Palmaire Place                     Plantana                         25
Palmetto Bay Court                 Piper Glen                       25
Palmetto Bay Street                Piper Glen                       25
Palodura Court                     Canyon Ridge                     25
Pamona Court                       Sweet Briar North                25
Panthers Way                       Bristols                         25
Park Royal Way                     Avalon                           25
Park Vista Court                   Delaware Crossing                25
Parkland Court                     Rolling Knoll at Hoosier Woods   25
Parkshore Drive                    Auburn Springs                   25
Parkside Drive                     Parkside                         25
Parkway Drive                      Windermere                       25
Parley Court                       Canyon Ridge                     25
Parley Lane                        Canyon Ridge                     25
Parmer Circle                      Northpointe                      25
Parrot Court                       Sawgrass                         25
Pasco Court                        Remington                        25
Pathwood Circle                    Royalwood                        25
Patrick Court                      Britton Ridge                    25
Patriotic Way                      Brooks Chase                     25
Pearce Place                       Sedona Woods                     25
Pennington Road                    Within Saxony                    25
Peppermill Lane                    Lake Stonebridge                 25
Perlita Place                      Sweet Briar                      25
Petalon Trace                      Hamilton Proper                  25
Pewter Place                       Sunblest                         25
Philadelphia Drive                 Fishers Pointe                   25
Pica Drive                         The Preserve at Arbor Pines      25
Piccadily Circle                   Avalon                           25
Picket Fence Place                 Rolling Knoll at Hoosier Woods   25
Pine Bluff Drive                   Pine Bluff Overlook              25
Pine Meadow Circle                 Village of Meadow Brook          25
Pine Needle Court                  Quaker Ridge                     25
Pine Ridge East Drive              The Pines                        25
Pine Ridge North Drive             Roxbury                          25
Pine Ridge North Drive             The Pines                        25
Pine Valley Court                  Quaker Ridge                     25
Pineview Circle                    Eller Run                        25
Pinner Avenue                      Avalon                           25
Pioneer Trail                      Heritage Meadows                 25
Plantana Boulevard                 Plantana                         25
Playview Way                       Eller Run                        25
Pleasant Crest Avenue              Thorpe Creek                     25
Pleasant View Lane                 Pleasantview                     25
Plum Hollow Circle                 Sawgrass                         25
Pointe Court                       Delaware Pointe                  25
Pointer Place                      Sunblest                         25
Poplar Bend Boulevard              Thorpe Creek                     25
Portage Circle                     The Portage                      25
Portage Way                        The Portage                      25
Prairieview Drive                  Sunblest Orchard                 25
Prairie Fox Drive                  Fox Run                          25
Preston Court                      Tremont                          25
Pride Lane                         Britton Falls                    25
Princewood Court                   Royalwood                        25
Princewood Drive                   Royalwood                        25
Prominence Place                   Whelchel Springs                 25
Priscilla Place                    Harrison Parks                   25
Providence Drive                   Weaver Woods North               25
Publishers Drive                   Parkside                         25
Quail Run                          Wildwood Estates                 25
Quaker Ridge Court                 Quaker Ridge                     25
Quarterback Lane                   Bristols                         25
Queenwood Court                    Royalwood                        25
Radnor Way                         Brendonshire                     25
Ragsdale Plane                     Spyglass Falls                   25
Raiders Boulevard                  Bristols                         25
Rainbow Falls Lane                 Spyglass Falls                   25
Raleigh Lane                       Charleston Crossing              25
Rambling Road                      Sumerlin Trail                   25
Rams Court                         Bristols                         25
Ramsgate Court                     Britton Ridge                    25
Randell Drive                      Lantern Ridge                    25
Ranford Boulevard                  Ravinia of Fishers               25
Ranford Boulevard                  The Boulders                     25
Ratliff Run                        Avalon                           25
Raven Court                        Pleasantview                     25
Ravenswood Trail                   Britton Falls                    25
Rawlings Court                     Sweet Briar                      25
Rawlings Place                     Sweet Briar                      25
Raynors Lane                       Avalon                           25
Red Berry Court                    Hamilton Proper                  25
Red Fox Run                        Amberglow                        25
Red Fox Run                        Wildwood Estates                 25
Red Pine Court                     Pine Bluff Overlook              25
Red Pine Drive                     Pine Bluff Overlook              25
Red Sky Road                       Rolling Knoll at Hoosier Woods   25
Red Tail Drive                     Fox Run                          25
Redskins Avenue                    Bristols                         25
Redwing Court                      Hamilton Proper                  25
Reflection Point Drive             Spyglass Hills                   25
Refreshing Garden Drive            The Oaks of Kraus Square         25
Refreshing Garden Lane             Woodberry                        25
Republic Drive                     Brooks Chase                     25
Ridan Street                       Grantham                         25
Ridge Court                        Gatewood                         25
Ridgeview Circle                   Eller Run                        25
Ridgewater Circle                  Walnut Hills                     25
Ringtail Place                     Brendonshire                     25
Rising Sun Way                     Sumerlin Trail                   25
River Glen Drive                   River Glen                       25
River Highlands Drive              River Highlands                  25
River Oak Lane East                The Pines                        25
River Oak Lane North               The Pines                        25
River Place Drive                  River Place                      25
River Ridge Drive                  River Ridge                      25
Riverside Way                      River Ridge                      25
Robinson Run                       Harrison Parks                   25
Rockingham Circle                  Stonegate                        25
Rocky Shore Drive                  Villas at Timberstone            25
Romeo Place                        The Woods at Geist Overlook      25
Ross Crossing                      Pleasantview                     25
Rossburn Drive                     Estates of Meadow Brook          25
Rossburn Drive                     Village of Meadow Brook          25
Rotterdam Road                     Avalon                           25
Roundtree Road                     Sumerlin Trail                   25
Roxbury Drive                      Roxbury                          25
Roy Anderson Boulevard             Anderson Hall                    25
Royal Drive                        Morgan Meadows                   25
Royalwood Court                    Royalwood                        25
Royalwood Drive                    Royalwood                        25
Running Springs Road               Sumerlin Trail                   25
Runview Circle                     Eller Run                        25
Rush Court                         Sunblest                         25
Rush Drive                         Sunblest                         25
Russell Drive                      Ashwood                          25
Rustic Ridge Court                 Thorpe Creek                     25
Rutgers Lane                       Princeton Park                   25
Ryan Drive                         Weaver Woods North               25
Sagamore Woods Drive               Sumerlin Trail                   25
Saksons Boulevard                  Sunblest                         25
Salatheal Court                    Heritage Meadows                 25
Salem Drive                        Princeton Park                   25
Saltford Circle                    Somerset                         25
Saltford Lane                      Somerset                         25
Samoa Street                       Weaver Woods North               25
Sandcreek Boulevard                Sandcreek                        25
Sanderling Trace                   Hamilton Proper                  25
Sanders Drive                      Sedona Woods                     25
Sanger Circle                      Sweet Briar                      25
Sanger Drive                       Sweet Briar                      25
Sapphire Berry Lane                Woodberry                        25
Sarah Court                        Summerfield                      25
Sawgrass Drive                     Sawgrass                         25
Saxony Boulevard                   Saxony                           25
Saxony Boulevard East              Saxony                           25
Saxony Boulevard North             Saxony                           25
Saxony Boulevard West              Saxony                           25
Saybrook Court                     Sawgrass                         25
Scarlet Maple Street               Bridger Pines                    25
Scarteen Road                      Grantham                         25
School Street North                R.E. Harold                      25
Schoolhouse Road                   Sumerlin Trail                   25
Scotch Pine Court                  Pine Bluff Overlook              25
Seagrave Drive                     Spyglass Hills                   25
Seahawks Lane                      Bristols                         25
Sedalia Drive                      Bridger Pines                    25
Segundo Place                      Woods at Geist Overlook          25
Sellerton Drive                    Village of Meadow Brook          25
Selsey Lane                        Grantham                         25
Senita Lane                        Whelchel Springs                 25
Settlers Court                     Heritage Meadows                 25
Seven Oaks Drive                   Seven Oaks                       25
Severn Way                         Sutton Crossing                  25
Seville Road                       Tamarisk                         25
Sextant Court                      Spyglass Hills                   25
Shadow Lawn Drive                                                  25
Shady Knoll Drive                  Woods at Thorpe Creek            25
Shady Meadow Place                 Rolling Meadow                   25
Shandon Lane                       Sterling Green                   25
Shasta Drive                       Indigo Lakes                     25
Sheffield Court                    Northfield Estates               25
Shepherds Way                      Avalon                           25
Sherborne Road                     Northfield Estates               25
Sherbrooke Drive                   Westbrooke at Geist              25
Shire Close                        Geist Overlook                   25
Shoe Overlook Drive                Lantern Overlook                 25
Short Stone Place                  Villas at Timberstone            25
Sigmond Circle                     Wildwood Estates                 25
Silbury Hill Way                   Avalon of Fishers                25
Silent Bluff Court                 Thorpe Creek                     25
Silver Meadow Court                Rolling Meadow                   25
Silver Ridge Circle                Eller Trails                     25
Silverbell Lane                    Sedona Woods                     25
Silvertree Court                   Walnut Hills                     25
Sinclair Place                     Sweet Briar                      25
Sindar Lane                        Steeplechase Sanctuary           25
Sloane Muse                        Geist Overlook                   25
Sloop Circle                       Wintercove                       25
Smokey Quartz Lane                 Limestone Springs                25
Solano Drive                       Anderson Hall                    25
Solis Circle                       Anderson Hall                    25
Songbird Lane                      Wildwood Estates                 25
Sonnette Circle                    Bridger Pines                    25
Sonoran Run                        Whelchel Springs                 25
Sonrisa Drive                      Anderson Hall                    25
South Elster Way                   Saxony                           25
South Street                       R.E. Harold                      25
Southpoint Drive                                                   25
Southwood Circle                   Royalwood                        25
Sovereign Lane                     Britton Ridge                    25
Spice Lane                         Lake Stonebridge                 25
Spire View Drive                   Oak Hall                         25
Spring Blossom Lane                Heritage Meadows                 25
Springtide Lane                    Whelchel Springs                 25
Springridge Circle                 Bradford Knoll                   25
Springridge Court                  Bradford Knoll                   25
Springston Court                   Windermere                       25
Spruce Lane West                   The Pines                        25
Spyglass Ridge Drive               Spyglass Hills                   25
Squirrel Hollow                    Wildwood Estates                 25
St. Andrews Way                    Sterling Green                   25
St. Helens Walk                    Geist Overlook                   25
Stable Stone Terrace               Belmont Place at Brooks Park     25
Staffordshire Way                  Hunters Run                      25
Stamford Court                     Northfield Estates               25
Stanley Terrace                    Geist Overlook                   25
Star Circle                        Brooks Chase                     25
Starboard Road                     Intracoastal of Geist            25
Steambrook Drive                   Eller Commons                    25
Steelers Boulevard                 Bristols                         25
Sterling Commons                   Sterling Green                   25
Stewart Circle                     Woodberry                        25
Stickney Court                     Estates of Meadow Brook          25
Stillwater Court                   Windermere                       25
Stockwell Drive                    Sweet Briar North                25
Stone Key Way                      Ashford Pointe                   25
Stonebridge Court                  Spyglass Hills                   25
Stonebrook Place                   River Ridge                      25
Stonemill Court                    Berkley Grove                    25
Stonewood Court                    Royalwood                        25
Stonewood Place                    Royalwood                        25
Stratford North Drive              Harvard Park                     25
Stratford South Drive              Harvard Park                     25
Stratford Way                      Oxford Park                      25
Stratford Way                      Harvard Park                     25
Stratton Court                     Covington Estates                25
Streamwood Drive                   The Cove                         25
Strongbow Road                     Strongbow Gate                   25
Succulent Place                    Whelchel Springs                 25
Sugarleaf Place                    Rosewood                         25
Summerwood Lane                    Ashwood                          25
Sun Gold Court                     Cumberland Woods                 25
Sun River Drive                    River Ridge                      25
Sunbird Drive                      Anderson Hall                    25
Sunblest Boulevard                 Sunblest                         25
Sunblest Boulevard South           Sunblest                         25
Sunblest Court                     Sunblest                         25
Suncatcher Drive                   Estates of Meadow Brook          25
Suncoral Circle                    Plantana                         25
Sunglow Drive                      Anderson Hall                    25
Sunland Farm Drive                 Courtyards of Fishers            25
Sunlight Drive                     Delaware Park                    25
Sunnybrook Place                   River Ridge                      25
Sunset Point Lane                  Lake Stonebridge                 25
Suter Drive                        Avalon                           25
Swan Drive                         Oak Hall                         25
Sweet Briar Parkway                Sweet Briar North                25
Sweet Briar Parkway                Sweet Briar                      25
Sweet Creek Trail                  Sumerlin Trail                   25
Sweet Spring Court                 Sweet Spring Estates             25
Tabert Court                       The Boulders                     25
Tablick Street                     Saxony                           25
Tacoma Place                       Brendonshire                     25
Tall Trees Drive                   Wildwood Estates                 25
Talladega Court                    Sweet Briar North                25
Talnuk Circle                      Hamilton Proper                  25
Talon Trace                        Hamilton Proper                  25
Tamara Trace                       Harrison Parks                   25
Tamarisk Boulevard                 Tamarisk                         25
Tampico Chase                      Bridger Pines                    25
Tannenweg Way                      Saxony                           25
Tanner Drive                       Sunblest Farms                   25
Tarragon Court                     Berkley Grove                    25
Tattersalls Lane                   Steeplechase Reserve             25
Tattersalls Lane                   Sanctuary at Steeplechase        25
Technology Drive                   Northeast Technology Park        25
Technology Lane                    Northeast Technology Park        25
Teesdale Court                     Britton Ridge                    25
Temple Wood Circle                 Hunters Run                      25
Templin Avenue                     Saxony                           25
Tenbury Way                        Townes at Avalon North           25
Tensing Lane                       Hunters Run                      25
Terra Cotta Court                  Cumberland Woods                 25
Thames Drive                       Avalon                           25
The Legends Boulevard              Lake Stonebridge                 25
Thistle Ridge                      Berkley Grove                    25
Thornbush Lane                     Walnut Hills                     25
Thorndale Lane                     Rosewood                         25
Thornhill Run                      Sutton Crossing                  25
Thorny Ridge Pass                  Hamilton Proper                  25
Thorny Ridge Trace                 Hamilton Proper                  25
Thorpe Creek Parkway               Thorpe Creek                     25
Thurston Court                     Sunblest                         25
Tidecrest Drive                    Piper Glen                       25
Timber Circle                      Villas at Timberstone            25
Timber Springs Drive               Timber Springs                   25
Timberbrook Boulevard              Villas at Timberstone            25
Timberknoll Drive                  Villas at Timberstone            25
Timberlake Court                   Sunblest Countryview             25
Timberlake Lane                    Sunblest Countryview             25
Timberland Drive                   Timberstone                      25
Timberlane Drive                   Timberlane Estates               25
Timberlane Place                   Timberlane Estates               25
Timberstone Drive                  Timberstone                      25
Timberview Drive                   Walnut Hills                     25
Titans Drive                       Bristols                         25
Tito Court                         Sunblest Farms                   25
Todd Lane                          Hunters Run                      25
Todd Lane South                    Hunters Run                      25
Toponas Place                      The Woods at Geist Overlook      25
Torberg Place                      Sunblest                         25
Torrance Place                     Sunblest Farms                   25
Touchdown Drive                    Bristols                         25
Touchstone Drive                   Sweet Briar                      25
Tournon Drive                      Brookston Place                  25
Trade Center Drive                 Fishers Trade Center             25
Traders Court                      Heritage Meadows                 25
Trailwood Drive                    Ashwood                          25
Tranquility Court                  Harrison Parks                   25
Trappers Court                     Heritage Meadows                 25
Traverse Place                     Sunblest Farms                   25
Travertine Way                     Limestone Springs                25
Traymoore Drive                    Westminster                      25
Treasure Trail                     Sumerlin Trail                   25
Tremont Circle                     Tremont                          25
Tremont Drive                      Tremont                          25
Tremont Lane                       Tremont                          25
Trenton Court                      Charleston Crossing              25
Trester Lane                       Sunblest Farms                   25
Treyburn Drive                     Windermere Villas                25
Trophy Drive                       Sunblest Farms                   25
Trumbull Court                     Sunblest Farms                   25
Trumpeter Place                    Geist Overlook                   25
Tuckaway Court                     Sumerlin Trail                   25
Tudor Court                        Covington Estates                25
Tufton Place                       Fishers Pointe                   25
Turin Court                        Sunblest Farms                   25
Turkel Court                       Sunblest                         25
Turkel Drive                       Sunblest                         25
Turkel Place                       Sunblest                         25
Turne Grove                        Hamilton Proper                  25
Turnham Court                      Sweet Briar                      25
Turnham Drive                      Sweet Briar                      25
Turnleaf Circle                    Hamilton Proper                  25
Tuscany Court                      Britton Falls                    25
Twyckenham Drive                   South Avalon                     25
Tybalt Drive                       Sweet Briar                      25
Tylers Close                       Geist Overlook                   25
Tynan Way                          Sunblest Farms                   25
United Drive                       Brooks Chase                     25
Valley Crest Court                 Timberstone                      25
Valley Ridge Court                 Spyglass Hills                   25
Valley Springs Boulevard           Walnut Hills                     25
Valleyview Drive                   Eller Run                        25
Van Buren Place                    Sedona Woods                     25
Veon Drive                         Ridgefield                       25
Vikings Lane                       Bristols                         25
Virginia Pine Drive                Bridger Pines                    25
Vitalize Run                       Grantham                         25
Vitalize Run                       Whelchel Springs                 25
Wabash Drive                       Harrison Green                   25
Wakefield Place                    Harrison Green                   25
Walbeck Drive                      Saxony                           25
Walbeck Drive East                 Saxony                           25
Walbeck East Drive                 Saxony                           25
Walking Wood Lane                  Spyglass Hills                   25
Walking Wood Lane/Grindstone Drive Lake Stonebridge                 25
Walney Court                       Britton Ridge                    25
Walnut Ridge Place                 River Highlands                  25
Walthan Way                        Covington Estates                25
Wanakah Street                     Whelchel Springs                 25
Washington Bay Drive               Delaware Crossing                25
Water Crest Drive                  Rosewood                         25
Water Ridge Drive                  Springs of Cambridge             25
Waterton Place                     Harrison Green                   25
Waveland Circle                    Northpointe                      25
Waycross Drive                     Harrison Green                   25
Weaver Woods Place                 Weaver Woods                     25
Wedgefield Court                   Windermere Pointe                25
Wedgeport Lane                     Village of Meadow Brook          25
Wedgestone Court                   Thorpe Creek                     25
Weeping Cherry Drive               Woodberry                        25
Weeping Cherry Drive               Cumberland Place                 25
Wellsprings Place                  Whelchel Springs                 25
Wendessa Drive                     Westminster                      25
West Elster Way                    Carriage Manor                   25
West Iron Court                    Iron Pointe                      25
Westmorland Drive                  Estates of Meadow Brook          25
Westmorland Drive                  Somerset                         25
Westpoint Drive                    Crosspoint Corner                25
Westwood Lane                      Ashwood                          25
Wharton Lane                       Princeton Park                   25
Wharton Way                        Princeton Park                   25
Wheathill Pass                     Somerset                         25
Wheeling Court                     Harrison Green                   25
Whelchel Drive                     Whelchel Springs                 25
Wiseman Drive                      Grantham                         25
Whisper Cove Drive                 Whispering Woods                 25
Whisper Knoll Drive                Whispering Woods                 25
Whispering Breeze Court            Thorpe Creek                     25
Whispering Breeze Drive            Thorpe Creek                     25
Whisperwood Way                    Whispering Woods                 25
White Birch Drive                  Eller Commons                    25
White River Place                  River Ridge                      25
White Water Way                    Spyglass Hills                   25
Whitehaven Lane                    Britton Ridge                    25
Whiten Drive North                 Saxony                           25
Whitetail Circle                   Woods Edge at Windermere         25
Whitewater Lane                    Cumberland Woods                 25
Whitewater Way                     Spyglass Falls                   25
Whitney Way                        Covington Estates                25
Whitten Drive South                Saxony                           25
Whittier Drive                     Harrison Green                   25
Wickland Court                     Lantern Pines                    25
Wicklow Court                      Strongbow Gate                   25
Wicklow Lane                       Timberstone                      25
Wild Cherry Drive                  Cherry Hill Farms                25
Wilderness Trail                   Wildwood Estates                 25
Wildflower Court                   Wildwood Estates                 25
Wildwood Lane                      Hickory Woods                    25
Willow Ridge                       Berkley Grove                    25
Willowbend Court                   Woods Edge at Windermere         25
Willowood Lane                     Sunblest Orchard                 25
Wilmington Circle                  Charleston Crossing              25
Win Star Way                       Brooks Park                      25
Windbreak Court                    Walnut Hills                     25
Windermere Boulevard               Windermere                       25
Winding Creek Court                Winding Creek                    25
Winding Creek Lane                 Winding Creek                    25
Winding Way                        Berkley Grove                    25
Windward Pass                      Windermere                       25
Wingstem Court                     Sterling Green                   25
Winter King Pass                   Hamilton Proper                  25
Winter Meadow Drive                The Preserve at Arbor Pines      25
Wintercove Way                     Wintercove                       25
Winthrop Place                     Harrison Green                   25
Wolford Court                      Sunblest                         25
Wolford Drive                      Sunblest                         25
Wolford Place                      Sunblest                         25
Wolverton Way                      South Avalon                     25
Wood Court                         Gatewood                         25
Wood Ridge Lane                    Gatewood                         25
Woodgate Circle                    Gatewood                         25
Woodlands Drive                    Windermere                       25
Woodlark Drive                     Harrison Green                   25
Woodmill Drive                     Eller Commons                    25
Woodmont Lane                      Windermere                       25
Woodruff Lane                      Thorpe Creek                     25
Woods Edge Drive                   Windermere                       25
Woodstock Way                      Covington Estates                25
Woodstone Circle                   Thorpe Creek                     25
Woodstone Court                    Windermere                       25
Woodview Court                     Hickory Woods                    25
Woodward Drive                     Sawgrass                         25
Wooster Court                      Harrison Green                   25
Worthington Boulevard              Cumberland Place                 25
Wyandotte Place                    Harrison Green                   25
Wynham Court                       Heritage Green                   25
Wynngate Lane                      Sedona Woods                     25
Wynsom Court                       Westminster                      25
York Place                         Sunblest                         25
Youngwood Lane                     Plantana                         25
Zinfindel Place                    Brendonshire                     25
Zion Court                         Canyon Ridge                     25
 
(Res. R030303A, passed 3-3-03; Am. Res. R060506H, passed 6-5-06; Am. Res.
R112006B, passed 11-20-06; Am. Res. R031907B, passed 3-19-07; Am. Res.
R021609C, passed 2-16-09; Am. Res. R101810D, passed 10-18- 10; Am. Res.
R060611E, passed 6-6-11; Am. Res. R100311B, passed 10-3- 11; Am. Res. R121911B,
passed 12-19-11; Am. Res. R040212B, passed 4-2-12; Am. Ord. 071513, passed 7-
15-13; Am. Ord. 100614, passed 10- 20-14; Am. Ord. O121514, passed 12-15-14;
Am. Res. R042715, passed 4- 27-15; Am. Res. R011116A, passed 1-11-16; Am. Res.
R071116, passed 7- 11-16; Am. Res. R091216, passed 9-12-16; Am. Res. R122216A,
passed 12-22-16; Am. Res. R032717, passed 3-27-17; Am. Res. R082817B, passed 9-
1-17; Am. Res. R121117B, passed 12-11-17; Am. Res. R122117, passed 12-21-17;
Am. Res. R122117D, passed 12-21-17; Am. Res. R040918B, passed 4-9-18; Am. Res.
R051418, passed 5-14-18; Am. Ord. 071618A, passed 7-16-18; Am. Res. R072318A,
passed 7-23-18; Am. Res. R082718, passed 8-27-18; Am. Res. R100818A, passed 10-
8-18; Am. Res. R102218Y, passed 10-22-18; Am. Res. R112618, passed 11-26-18;
Am. Res. R122118C, passed 12-21-18; Am. Res. R022519, passed 2-25-19; Am. Ord.
091619A, passed 9-16-19; Am. Res. R102819, passed 10-28-19; Am. Res. R122019A,
passed 12-20-19; Am. Res. R121321A, passed 12-13-21; Am. Res. R122722B, passed
12-27-22; Am. Res. R091223E, passed 9-12-23; Am. Res. R122723D, passed 12-27-
23; Am. Res. R122024J, passed 12-20-24; Am. Res. R011425B, passed 1-14-25)
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY STREETS [RESERVED].
SCHEDULE V. SIGNALIZED INTERSECTIONS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
71.01 and when proper signs are erected, vehicles shall be brought to a full
stop at every intersection before entering any of the following streets or
designated sections of streets:
                            Timing Record               Currently
File Number Signal Location Date          As-Built Date Flashing  Hours Flashed
                                                        Overnight
File                                                          Timing As-   Currently Hours
Number Signal Location                                        Record Built Flashing  Flashed
                                                              Date   Date  Overnight
5008   96th and Masters Rd                                    3/30/  9/16/ -         -
                                                              2006   2009
5031   96th and Sams Club Dr                                  3/30/  9/16/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2006   2009            to 5 am
5007   96th and Hague Rd/Corporation Dr                       1/27/  9/16/ -         -
                                                              2005   2009
5006   96th and Hague Rd/NxNE Blvd                            1/27/  9/24/ -         -
                                                              2005   2009
5005   96th and Wal-Mart Entrance                             1/27/  9/24/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2005   2009            to 5 am
5004   96th and Kincaid Dr/Village Way                        1/27/  9/24/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2005   2009            to 5 am
5038   96th and Mollenkopf Rd                                 1/9/   9/24/ -         -
                                                              2008   2009
       96th and Carrol Rd                                                  Yes       11 pm
                                                                                     to 5 am
       96th St and Allisonville Rd
       96th St and W. Centre Properties Dr
       96th St and N. Centre Properties Dr
       96th St and Southbay Dr
       96th St and CVS Driveway
5062   Fall Creek Parkway and Geist Rd                               2/24/ Yes       11 pm
                                                                     2011            to 5 am
                                                                     10/
5061   106th and Hague Rd                                            12/   -         -
                                                                     2009
5012   116th and Allisonville Rd                              1/7/   9/24/ -         -
                                                              2008   2009
5011   116th and Conner Creek Dr                              1/7/   9/24/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2008   2009            to 5 am
5010   116th and Hague Rd                                     1/7/   9/25/ -         -
                                                              2008   2009
5013   116th and Holland Dr                                   1/7/   9/25/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2008   2009            to 5 am
5014   116th and Fishers Pointe Blvd                          1/7/   9/25/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2008   2009            to 5 am
5015   116th and Municipal Dr                                 1/7/   9/25/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2008   2009            to 5 am
       116th and Lakeridge Dr
5009   116th and Lantern Rd                                   3/16/  9/25/ -         -   
                                                              2010   2009
5016   116th and Commercial Dr                                4/1/   9/25/ -         -
                                                              2010   2009
5028   116th and Kroger Entrance                              12/22/ 9/25/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2009   2009            to 5 am
5018   116th and Cumberland Rd                                12/22/ 9/25/ -         -
                                                              2009   2009
5021   116th and Hoosier Rd                                   10/13/ 9/25/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2008   2009            to 5 am
5029   116th and Brooks School Rd                             1/9/   9/25/ -         -
                                                              2008   2009
       116th E St. and IKEA Way/Exit 5 Pwky                   12/8/        No
                                                              2016
       126th St and Promise Rd
       126th St and Brooks School Rd
       126th St and Parkside Dr
       131st St and Hoosier Rd
5026   Allisonville Rd and Eller Rd                           1/9/   9/25/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2008   2009            to 5 am
5002   Allisonville Rd and 106th                              1/9/   10/7/ -         -
                                                              2008   2009
5032   Allisonville Rd and Easy St                            1/9/   9/28/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2008   2009            to 5 am
5033   Allisonville Rd and Kroger/Marsh Entrance              1/8/   9/28/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2008   2009            to 5 am
5023   Allisonville Rd and River Glen/Sunblest Blvd           1/8/   9/28/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2008   2009            to 5 am
5003   Allisonville Rd and 126th                              1/8/   9/28/ -         -
                                                              2008   2009
5039   Allisonville Rd and 131st                              9/6/   9/16/ -         -
                                                              2009   2009
5064   Allisonville Rd and 141st                              9/6/   2/24/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2009   2011            to 5 am
5041   Cumberland Rd and 121st                                4/20/  10/7/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2009   2009            to 5 am
5035   Cumberland Rd and 126th                                1/8/   9/28/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2008   2009            to 5 am
5030   Commercial Dr and Fishers Corner Blvd                  1/8/   10/7/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2008   2009            to 5 am
5040   131st and Promise Rd                                   1/8/   9/28/ Yes       11 pm
                                                              2008   2009            to 5 am
5063   Hague Rd and Crosspoint Blvd                                  2/24/ -         -
                                                                     2011
       USA Pkwy and IKEA Way                                  12/15/       No
                                                              2016
       Fire Station Flasher
5027   Cumberland Rd north of 106th                                  6/13/
                                                                     1997
                                                                     10/
5036   131st and Promise Rd                                          23/
                                                                     2003
       96th Street and Carroll Rd
          (1)   No signal plan
          (2)   No timing chart
          (3)   No file number
5062   Fall Creek and Geist Road
          (1)   No timing chart
5061   106th St and Hague Rd
          (1)   No date on timing chart
5064   Allisonville Rd and 141st
          (1)   No timing chart
5041   Cumberland Rd and 121st
          (1)   Timing chart does not show signal flash times
5040   131st and Promise Rd
          (1)   Timing chart does not show signal flash times
5-63   Hague Rd and Crosspoint Blvd
          (1)   No timing chart
       131st and Parkside Dr
 
(Res. R090611, passed 9-6-2011; Am. Ord. 021714, passed 2-17-14; Am. Ord.
121514, passed 12-15-14; Am. Res. R122216A, passed 12-22-16; Am. Res. R121117B,
passed 12-11-17; Am. Res. R122118C, passed 12-21-18)
SCHEDULE VI. TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
71.03, all vehicular traffic shall, at certain intersections or locations, be
prohibited from making a right, left or “U” turn as specified in this schedule,
provided that proper signs have been posted.
 
Intersection or Location  Turn Restrictions          Ord./Res. No. Passage Date
116th Street at
intersection with Exit 5/ No U-turn                  R092517A      9-25-17
IKEA Way
126th Street at           No U-turn for eastbound
intersection with         traffic                    R062518       6-25-18
Parkside Drive
126th Street at           No left turn for
intersection with         eastbound, northbound, or  R062518       6-25-18
Reynolds Drive/Enterprise southbound traffic
Drive
                          No U-turn to go northbound
Brooks School Road at     on Brooks School Road from R091712D      9-17-12
Portage Way               southbound Brooks School
                          Road
Brooks School Road south  No U-turn for southbound
of roundabout at 136th    vehicles on Brooks School  R121321A      12-13-21
Street                    Rd
Lantern Road at 236'      No U-turn to go northbound
south of 116th Street     on Lantern Road from       090412        9-4-12
intersection              southbound on Lantern Road
 
CHAPTER 75: PARKING SCHEDULES
Section:
   
75.01   Introduction
 
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
   
II.   Parking time limited [reserved]
   
III.   Loading zones [reserved]
§ 75.01 INTRODUCTION.
   The parking schedules set forth herein are subject to amendment by the Board
of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 031615B, passed 3-16-15)
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING
   In accordance with §
72.21, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof, no vehicle shall be
parked upon any of the following described streets:
Street Description Side Res./Ord. No. Passage Date
Street       Description                                                                  Side                                                                     Res./Ord. Passage
                                                                                                                                                                   No.       Date
116th Street From Manship Lane east to Commercial Street                                  Both                                                                     R061588   6-15-88
116th Street From the Municipal Building on the east to the town limits on the west       Both                                                                     —       - -
116th Street From Lantern Road west to Maple Street                                       Both                                                                     Res.      7-15-87
Allisonville From Shadowlawn Drive on the south to town limits on the north               Both                                                                     —       - -
Road
141st Street From Connor Knoll Pkwy to Allisonville Toad                                  Both                                                                     R050504   5-17-04
Allisonville From 131st Street north to town limits                                       Both                                                                     Res.      7-15-87
Road
Britton Park Restricted parking between 141st Street and 135th Street in accordance with
Road         signage or in accordance with §                                             Both sides                                                               R032525M  3-25-25
             72.13
Cobblestone  From Hamble Blvd. to Ledgerock Ct.                                           Either                                                                   R112006A  11-20-
Dr.                                                                                                                                                                          06
Commercial   From 116th Street north                                                      Both                                                                     Res.      7-15-87
Street
Conner Creek From 116th Street to Conner Creek Club House                                 East                                                                     —       - -
Drive
Conner Creek From Conner Creek Club House to Allisonville Road                            South                                                                    —       - -
Drive
Conner Creek                                                                             One                                                                      R060506G; 6-5-06;
Drive                                                                                                                                                              090313    9-3-13
Conner Knoll East side of Conner Knoll Pkwy from 131st Street north approximately 185     East side of Conner Knoll Pkwy from 131st Street north approximately 185
Parkway      feet where signed or in accordance with §                                   feet where signed or in accordance with §                               R082817A  9-1-17
             72.21                                                                        72.21
Driftstone   From Hamble Blvd. to Barnstone Court                                         Either                                                                   R112006A  11-20-
Dr.                                                                                                                                                                          06
Ellipse      Outside of loop                                                              Outside of loop                                                          R091216   9-12-16
Parkway
Fishers      South of 116th Street                                                        Both                                                                     R060506G  6-5-06
Pointe Blvd.
Fishers      Restricted parking 335 feet west of Meadows Drive in accordance with signage                                                                                    7-25-
Pointe Blvd. or in accordance with §                                                     North side                                                               R072523 A 23
             72.13
Ford Drive   Where signed at Enterprise Rental or in accordance with §                   Location specific (Enterprise)                                           R091216   9-1216
             72.13
Hague Road   From town limits on south to 116th Street on the north                       Both                                                                     —       - -
Hamble Blvd. On the medians                                                               Both                                                                     R112006A  11-20-
                                                                                                                                                                             06
Holland      From Sunblest Boulevard South Drive north to Ellipse Parkway                 East                                                                     R061588   6-15-88
Drive
Lantern Road Where signed from Maple Street to 116th Street, from 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.                                                                          R021218D  2-12-18
Maple Street Entire west side of Maple Street between North Street to 116th Street where  Entire west side of Maple Street between North Street to 116th Street    R0311317  3-13-17
             signed or in accordance with § 72.13                                        where signed or in accordance with § 72.13
Maple Street Where signed from North Street to 116th Street, from 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.  East                                                                     R021218D  2-12-18
Maple Street Where signed between the Nickel Plate Railroad to Lantern Road, from 3:00                                                                            R021218D  2-12-18
             a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Maple Street
and North    Parking lot on the SE corner of Maple Street and North Street, from 3:00                                                                             R021218D  2-12-18
Street       a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Parking Lot
Municipal    Parking lots on the inside of Municipal Drive loop south of within Fishers
Complex      Municipal Complex, from 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.                                                                                                       R021218D  2-12-18
Parking Lots
Municipal    Entire inside loop and specific locations on outside loop where signed or in Entire inside loop and specific locations on outside loop where signed
Drive        accordance with §                                                           or in accordance with §                                                 R091216   9-12-16
             72.13. Except for City Hall and amphitheater loading zones                   72.13. Except for City Hall and amphitheater loading zones
Municipal    Where signed on loop of Municipal Complex; and where signed on west and east
Drive        sides of Municipal Drive from 116th to City Hall, from 3:00 a.m. to 6:00                                                                             R021218D  2-12-18
             a.m.
Municipal    Northbound and southbound Municipal Drive near or adjacent to the Central    Northbound and southbound Municipal Drive near or adjacent to the
Drive        Green where signed during Tuesday and Friday night concerts from 5:00 p.m.   Central Green where signed during Tuesday and Friday night concerts from R061118A  6-11-18
             to 12:00 a.m. or in accordance with Traffic Code § 72.13                    5:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. or in accordance with Traffic Code § 72.13
Municipal
Drive and    Parking lot on northwest corner of Municipal Drive and Fishers Center Drive,
Fishers      from 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.                                                                                                                          R021218D  2-12-18
Center Drive
Parking Lot
             Entire north side of North Street between Commercial Blvd to Lantern Road    Entire north side of North Street between Commercial Blvd to Lantern
North Street where signed or in accordance with Traffic Code §                           Road where signed or in accordance with Traffic Code §                  R050817   5-8-17
             72.13                                                                        72.13
             Entire south side of North Street between Commercial Blvd to Lantern Rd      Entire south side of North Street between Commercial Blvd to Lantern Rd
North Street where signed or in accordance with Traffic Code §                           where signed o in accordance with Traffic Code §                        R021020A  2-10-20
             72.13                                                                        72.13
North Street Where signed, from Nickel Plate Railroad to Lantern Road, from 3:00 a.m. to  North and south                                                          R021218D  2-12-18
             6:00 a.m.
Park Court   East of Britton Park Rd. in accordance with signage or in accordance with § Both sides                                                               R032525M  3-25-25
             72.13
Silverado    From Hamble Blvd to Canyon Court                                             Either                                                                   R112006A  11-20-
Dr.                                                                                                                                                                          06
Technology   Complete Circle                                                              Both                                                                     R052092C  5-20-92
Dr.
Technology   Entire length                                                                Inside of loop                                                           R050504   5-17-04
Drive/Lane
Trade Center Restricted parking between 141st Street and Britton Park Road in accordance
Drive        with signage or in accordance with §                                        Both sides                                                               R032525M  3-25-25
             72.13
 
(Ord. 040385, passed 5-1-85) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PARKING TIME LIMITED [RESERVED].
SCHEDULE III. LOADING ZONES [RESERVED].
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   LITTERING
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   TREES AND SHRUBS; WEEDS
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND HOMELAND SECURITY
      
98.   NOISE
      
99.   FIREWORKS
      
100.    PUBLIC SAFETY NUISANCE
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
Section
Abandoned Vehicles
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Exceptions
   
90.04   Responsibility of owner
   
90.05   Vehicles in possession of persons other than owner
   
90.06   Complaint of property owner
   
90.07   Removal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.08   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
90.09   Maximum towing and storage charges
   
90.10   Towing contracts
   
90.11   Liability for loss or damage
   
90.12   Costs charged to abandoned vehicle account
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Towing for disabled vehicles, see
Chapter 118
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that abandoned vehicles are a public nuisance and a
safety and health hazard. The Police Chief is given the responsibility for
removal, storage and disposal of abandoned vehicles.
(Ord. 022091C, passed 3-6-91; Am. Ord. 100798B, passed 10-21-98; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLES.
      (1)   A vehicle located on public property illegally.
      (2)   A vehicle left on public property continuously without being moved
for three days.
      (3)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicle
traffic on a public right-of-way.
      (4)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the consent
of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48 hours.
      (5)   A vehicle from which there has been removed the engine,
transmission or differential, or that is otherwise partially dismantled or
inoperable and left on public property.
      (6)   A vehicle that has been removed by an authorized towing service or
a public agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or ordinance
other than this chapter, if the vehicle once impounded is not claimed or
redeemed by the owner or his agent within 15 days of its removal.
      (7)   A vehicle that is six or more model years old and mechanically
inoperable, and is left on private property continuously in a location visible
from public property for more than 30 days.
   AUTHORIZED TOWING SERVICE. A business that engages in moving or removing
disabled vehicles, and, once removed, storing or impounding vehicles; and that
has been requested by the Police Chief to tow vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE SCRAPYARD. A business organized for the purpose of scrap metal
processing, automobile wrecking or operating a junkyard.
   BUREAU. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   FISCAL BODY. The City Council.
   OFFICER. A regular member of the Fishers Police Department.
   OWNER. The last known record titleholder of a vehicle, according to the
records of the Bureau under IC 9-17-1 et seq..
   PARTS. All components of a vehicle that, as assembled, do not constitute a
complete vehicle.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property other than public property.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. A public right-of-way, street, highway, alley, park or
other state, county or municipal property.
   VEHICLE. An automobile, motorcycle, truck, trailer, semi-trailer, tractor,
bus, school bus, recreational vehicle or motorized bicycle.
(Ord. 022091C, passed 3-6-91; Am. Ord. 100798B, passed 10-21-98; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
                  
Editor’s Note:
IC 9-1-2 was repealed by P.L. 2-1991, § 109, effective July 1, 1991. The
subject matter in repealed IC 9-1-2 is now covered by IC 9-17-1 et seq. enacted
by P.L. 2-1991.
§ 90.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or constructed
for operation on privately owned raceways.
   (B)   A vehicle stored as the property of a member of the armed forces of
the United States who is on active duty assignment.
   (C)   A vehicle located on a vehicle sale lot or at a commercial vehicle
servicing facility.
   (D)   A vehicle located upon property licensed or zoned as an automobile
scrapyard.
   (E)   A vehicle registered and licensed under IC 9-18-12 as an antique
vehicle.
(Ord. 022091C, passed 3-6-91)
                  
Editor’s Note:
IC 9-7-6 was repealed by P.L. 2-1991, § 109, effective July 1, 1991. The
subject matter in repealed IC 9-7- 6 is now covered by IC 9-18-12 enacted by
P.L. 2-1991.
§ 90.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner of an abandoned vehicle is responsible for the abandonment and is
liable for all of the costs incidental to the removal, storage and disposal of
the vehicle or its parts.
(Ord. 022091C, passed 3-6-91)
§ 90.05 VEHICLES IN POSSESSION OF PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   When an officer discovers a vehicle in the possession of a person
other than the owner and the person cannot establish his right to the
possession of that vehicle, the vehicle shall be taken to and stored in a
suitable place. The Bureau of Motor Vehicles shall be notified within 72 hours
of the location and description of the vehicle. Upon receipt of notification,
the Bureau shall cause a search to be made to determine and notify the owner.
   (B)   If the owner of the vehicle cannot be determined, the Bureau shall
declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for its disposal in accordance with
this chapter.
   (C)   If the properly identified owner or lienholder appears at the site of
storage before disposal of the vehicle or parts and pays all proper costs
incurred against it at that time, then the vehicle or parts shall be released.
A copy of the release must contain the owner or lienholder’s signature, name,
address, vehicle or parts description, costs and date of release.
   (D)   If the vehicle is not released to the owner or lienholder, the Bureau
shall declare the vehicle abandoned and provide for disposal in accordance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 022091C, passed 3-6-91)
§ 90.06 COMPLAINT OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   Upon complaint of a private property owner or person in control of the
property that a vehicle has been left on the property for 48 hours or more
without the consent of the owner or person in control, an officer shall follow
the procedures set forth in IC 9-22-1.
(Ord. 022091C, passed 3-6-91)
                  
Editor’s Note:
IC 9-9-1.1-5 was repealed by P.L. 2-1991, § 109, effective July 1, 1991. The
subject matter in now repealed IC 9-9-1.1-5 is covered by IC 9-22-1 enacted by
P.L. 2-1991.
§ 90.07 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   An officer who finds a vehicle or parts believed to be abandoned shall
attach in a prominent place a notice tag containing the following information:
      (1)   The date, time, officer’s name, Police Department, and address and
telephone number to contact for information.
      (2)   That the vehicle parts are considered abandoned.
      (3)   That the vehicle or parts will be removed after 72 hours.
      (4)   That the owner will be held responsible for all costs incidental to
the removal, storage and disposal and if not paid, the owner’s registration
privileges will be suspended on that car.
      (5)   That the owner may avoid costs by removal of the vehicle or parts
within 72 hours.
   (B)   If the tagged vehicle or parts are not recovered within that 72-hour
period, the officer shall prepare a written abandoned vehicle report of the
vehicle or parts including information on the condition, missing parts, and
other facts that might substantiate that the market value is less than $100.
Photographs shall be taken to describe the condition of the vehicle or parts.
   (C)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is less than $100, the officer shall immediately dispose of
the vehicle to an automobile scrapyard. A copy of the abandoned vehicle report
and photographs relating to the abandoned vehicle shall be forwarded to the
Bureau of Motor Vehicles. The Police Department shall retain the original
records and photographs for at least two years.
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the officer, the market value of the abandoned
vehicle or parts is $100 or more, the officer, before placing a notice tag on
the vehicle or parts, shall make a reasonable effort to ascertain the owner or
person who may be in control of the vehicle or parts. After 72 hours, the
officer shall require the vehicle or parts to be towed to a storage area.
(Ord. 022091C, passed 3-6-91)
§ 90.08 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Within 72 hours after removal of an abandoned vehicle to a storage
area under this chapter, the Police Department shall prepare and forward to the
Bureau an abandoned vehicle report containing a description of the vehicle
including the make, model, engine number, if any, identification number and the
number of the license plate and request that the Bureau advise the Police
Department of the name and most recent mailing address of the owner and any
lienholder.
   (B)   The Bureau shall dispose of the vehicle in accordance with IC 9-22-1.
(Ord. 022091C, passed 3-6-91)
                  
Editor’s Note:
IC 9-9-1.1-6 was repealed by P.L. 2-1991, § 109, effective July 1, 1991. The
subject matter in repealed IC 9-9-1.1-6 is now covered by IC 9-22-1 enacted by
P.L. 2-1991.
§ 90.09 MAXIMUM TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES.
   The maximum amount that an authorized towing service may charge for towing
or removing a vehicle under this chapter shall not exceed the amount set forth
by the City Council, except where special equipment is required. The maximum
amount that may be charged for storage shall not exceed the amount set forth by
the City Council.
(Ord. 022091C, passed 3-6-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 90.10 TOWING CONTRACTS.
   In order to facilitate the removal of abandoned vehicles or parts, the
Police Department may employ personnel and acquire equipment, property and
facilities, and enter into towing contracts as necessary for the purpose of
removal, storage and disposition of abandoned vehicles and parts. The City
Council may establish, by ordinance, procedures to accomplish the purposes of
this chapter.
(Ord. 022091C, passed 3-6-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 90.11 LIABILITY FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   Neither the owner, lessee, or occupant of the property from which an
abandoned vehicle or parts are removed, nor the Police Department, authorized
towing service or automobile scrapyard, is liable for loss or damage to the
vehicle or parts occurring during its removal, storage or disposition.
(Ord. 022091C, passed 3-6-91)
§ 90.12 COSTS CHARGED TO ABANDONED VEHICLE ACCOUNT.
   The costs for removal and storage of an abandoned vehicle or parts not
claimed by the owner or lienholder shall be paid from the abandoned vehicle
account. The charge payable by the owner or lienholder for towing, storing or
removing an abandoned vehicle or parts may not exceed the limits established by
ordinance adopted in IC 9-22-1.
(Ord. 022091C, passed 3-6-91)
                  
Editor’s Note:
IC 9-9-1.1-16 was repealed by P.L. 2-1991, § 109, effective July 1, 1991. The
subject matter in repealed IC 9-9-1.1-16 is now covered by IC 9-22-1 enacted by
P.L. 2-1991.
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Adoption of state law
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Duties and responsibilities
   
91.04   Permanent identification of dogs and cats required
   
91.05   Restraint of animals and animals at large
   
91.06   Public nuisance animals and feral cats
   
91.07   Dangerous animals declaration
   
91.08   Animal bites and quarantine
   
91.09   Commercial animal establishments
   
91.10   Disposition of dead animals
   
91.11   Cruelty; neglect; abandonment
   
91.12   Vaccination of dogs, cats and ferrets
   
91.13   Report of vehicular collision with animal
   
91.14   Interfering with Animal Control Officer
   
91.15   Injured animals; action required
   
91.16   Animal waste
   
91.17   Lost or stray animals
   
91.18   Animals in vehicles
   
91.19   Animal sacrifice
   
91.20   Sterilization of dogs and cats required
   
91.21   Additional restrictions on owners of dangerous or nuisance animals
   
91.22   Service animals in public buildings
   
91.23   Jurisdiction
   
91.24   Enforcement procedures
   
91.25   Authority to destroy dangerous animals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   All laws of the state which pertain to the regulation and control of
animals, including but not limited to their ownership, licensing, harboring,
abandonment, running at large, rabies control and quarantine, pursuit, capture,
confinement, the prevention and control of diseases of domestic animals, and
the active rules and regulations of the State Board of Health and unlawful acts
relating thereto which are not inconsistent with this title are made a part or
this chapter by reference.
   (B)   The sections of this chapter are not to replace state laws but are to
be considered supplementary and in addition to the laws of the state and are to
be fully enforced where not inconsistent with those laws. Any violation of the
state statute, which is an infraction by state law, is a violation under the
state statute.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. To desert an animal or to leave the animal without making
provision for adequate long-term care of the animal or to leave in a place
without the expressed permission of the property owner, custodian or tenant of
the property. The term does not include leaving an animal in a place that is
temporarily vacated for the protection of human life during a disaster.
   ACCLIMATED. The point at which an animal has adapted to a new temperature,
climate, or environment. Factors such as body size and shape, hair coat, body
condition, and the animal's overall health greatly influence the time required
for an animal to acclimate to these high or low temperatures.
   ADULT DOG/CAT. Any dog or cat that is three months of age or older for the
purposes of rabies vaccinations/tags.
   ANIMAL. Every living non-human vertebrate creature.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person who is authorized to implement and
enforce city animal care and control ordinances as defined in state statues.
   ANIMAL CRUELTY. An intentional or malicious act(s) whereby unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain, suffering or death is caused.
   ANIMAL HOARDING.
      (1)   Collecting animals and failing to provide them with adequate
shelter and care;
      (2)   Collecting dead animals that are not properly disposed of; and/or
      (3)   Collecting, housing or harboring animals in filthy, insanitary
conditions that constitute a health hazard to the animals being kept, to the
individual(s) residing at the property, or to the animals or residents of an
adjacent property.
   ANIMAL NEGLECT. The same definition as found in IC 35-46-3.5(4).
   AUCTION. A commercial animal establishment where animals are regularly
bought, sold, traded, etc., through a bidding process; i.e., a flea market.
   AUTHORIZED VETERINARIAN. Any person licensed or permitted to practice
veterinary medicine under the laws of the state, and having had no previous
judgements related to their practice of veterinary medicine.
   BAIT. Using an animal as a lure to provoke an attack upon that animal for
the purpose of dog fighting or to cause the intentional harm or death of that
animal.
   BREEDERS.
      (1)   APPROVED BREEDERS.
         (a)   HOBBY BREEDERS. Persons who focus their efforts on the health
and betterment of the breed and operate with less than 20 unaltered female dogs
that are at least 12 months of age. Approved Breeders shall follow the AKC's
Guidelines for Responsible Breeding including but not limited to:
            1.   Provide adequate care, shelter, space, and veterinary care to
all breeding dogs and puppies as defined in this chapter;
            2.   Screen buyers to ensure they can afford appropriate care and
provide puppies a safe home;
            3.   Require a purchase contract informing city residents of the
mandatory spay and neuter ordinance and free breeder's permit option;
            4.   Require the return to breeder policy should the purchaser be
unable to keep the puppy for any reason; and
            5.   Obtain a Breeder's Permit from the Police Department Animal
Control Officer.
      (2)   BACKYARD BREEDERS.
         (a)   Individuals who allow for the careless home breeding of more
than one female dog at a time;
         (b)   Individuals with less than 20 unaltered female dogs that are at
least 12 months of age, that do not adhere to good breeding and sale practices
or do not provide dogs and/or puppies adequate care as defined in this chapter;
         (c)   Individuals who sell un-weaned (under eight weeks old) and/or
diseased puppies;
         (d)   Individuals who breed more than one female dog, for commercial
reasons, that have not obtained a Breeder's Permit from the Police Department
Animal Control Officer.
         (e)   This definition does not apply to humane societies, rescue
groups, or foster homes.
   CARE (adequate and humane). Providing an animal with the following:
      (1)   Adequate food and water;
      (2)   Adequate shelter;
      (3)   Adequate space; and
      (4)   Adequate veterinary care, as defined in this chapter, necessary to
maintain the health of the animal with regard to its specific age, size,
species and breed.
   CIRCUS. A commercial animal establishment variety show featuring animals as
public entertainment.
   CITY. The incorporated and unincorporated areas of the City of Fishers.
   COLONY. A group of one or more feral cats.
   COLONY CARETAKER. An authorized person who provides food, water and shelter
for feral cats in a registered colony.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, auction, flea market, riding
school or stable, pet grooming shop, zoological park, circus, kennel,
veterinary hospital, or puppy mill as defined in this chapter.
   COMPETENT PERSON. As referenced herein means a person possessing the ability
and proficiency to identify when an animal is in danger and/or exhibiting signs
of suffering or distress, as well as the ability to adequately intervene.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  Any animal that attacks, bites or injures human beings,
pets, companion animals or livestock or which, because of temperament,
conditioning, or training, has a known propensity to attack, bite or injure
human beings, pets, companion animals or livestock. No dog may be declared
vicious if a threat, injury or damage was sustained by a person who, at the
time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner or keeper of the dog or was teasing, tormenting, abusing,
or assaulting the dog or has, in the past, been observed or reported to have
teased, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog or was committing or attempting
to commit a crime. The definition shall not be construed to include dogs that
are part of a governmental organization or a trained guard dog in performance
of its duties.
   DIRECT CONTROL. Immediate and continuous physical control of an animal
(excluding herding dogs; dogs in the process of hunting; police dogs; dogs
participating in a registered field trial, obedience trial, and confirmation
show and/or match) at all time such as by means of a fence, leash, cord or
chain of sufficient strength to restrain the animal.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A dog, cat, or any other animal such as a rabbit, guinea
pig, lizard, iguana, hamster, ferret, mouse, snake (non-venomous), spider,
bird, or gerbil, which may normally be held, sold, or maintained as a pet. The
City Council reserves the right to amend this definition by adding or deleting
animals as from time to time determine to be an animal which has been
domesticated.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. A wild animal that is non-native to the State of Indiana.
   FERAL CAT.  Any cat that has no apparent owner or identification and is
wild, untamed, unsocialized, unmanageable and unable to be approached or
handled.
   FOOD (adequate). Providing the appropriate quantity of non-contaminated and
nutritionally adequate food, fed according to age, size, species and breed
requirements, which is sufficient to prevent starvation, malnutrition or risk
to the animal's health. Garbage or spoiled/rancid food is not considered
adequate food.
   GARBAGE. Includes, but is not limited to, animal or vegetable refuse, by-
product of a restaurant, kitchen or meat-/poultry-processing establishment,
spoiled/rancid food and refuse accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable
matter, liquid or otherwise that is normally discarded.
   GROOMING ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business, stationary or mobile, which
accepts private pets for bathing, clipping, dipping, pedicuring or other
related services, but not to include breeding, dentistry or overnight boarding.
   GUARD DOG/WATCH DOG.  Any dog trained by a recognized training facility, as
defined in this chapter, for the purpose of protecting individuals from assault
and/or preventing property loss or damage.
   GUIDE DOG. A properly trained dog certified by a licensed training facility
that has an expertise in training dogs for physically impaired persons and that
is being used by a person to assist in that physical impairment.
   HARBORER/CAREGIVER. Any person who performs acts of providing care, shelter,
protection, restraint, refuge, food or nourishment in such a manner as to
control an animal's activities.
   HUMANE SOCIETY. An incorporated organization that has a nonprofit status
with the Internal Revenue Service for which the central purpose is to provide
for the protection of animals.
   HUMANE TRAP. Any device used for capturing an animal without inflicting
injury, pain or suffering and which provides adequate ventilation for the
trapped animal.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an Animal Control Officer or other officer empowered to act by law and
transporting it to an animal control facility or humane society.
   IMMINENT DANGER.  An immediate threat of harm.
   INHUMANE TRAP. Any device used for capturing an animal that may inflict
injury or pain; including but not limited to snares, leg traps or similar
devices.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes horses, cows, goats, pigs or any other four-legged
animal, excluding dogs and cats, used for pleasure or profit. Fowl are
expressly included within this definition.
   MANAGED COLONY. A colony of feral cats that are registered with the Humane
Society, or designee and is maintained by a colony caretaker using trap,
neuter, return methodology.
   MONITORED. The animal is controlled by means of a leash or other device held
by a competent person, or is sufficiently near the owner or handler as to be
under his or her direct control as defined in the chapter, and is obedient to
that person's command; is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or is
confined to the owner or handler's property and within visual range of a
competent person.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, harbors, keeps, feeds, maintains, has lawful
possession of, or knowingly causes or knowingly permits an animal to be
harbored or kept or has an animal in his care or who permits an animal to
remain on or about his premises for 30 consecutive days or more; provided,
however, this shall not include a person hired or acting as custodian of the
animal for its owner, and shall not include colony caretakers of registered
colonies of feral cats.
   PET SHOP. A commercial animal establishment engaging in the retail sale of
animals.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any law enforcement officer empowered to make arrests or
cause to be issued summonses in the incorporated areas of the city.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen, fence or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping.
Such pen, fence or structure shall be constructed to prevent the animal from
going over, under or through. A proper enclosure does not include a porch,
patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that would allow the
dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure in which windows are
open or in which door or window screens are the only obstacles that prevent the
dog from exiting.
   PROVOKE. To cause an occurrence or make something happen resulting in an
animal becoming angry or violent.
   PUPPY. Any dog that is under the age of three months for the purposes of
rabies vaccinations/tags.
   PUPPY MILL. Any sized commercial animal establishment that breeds more than
one female dog at a time and does not adhere to good breeding, care and sale
practices. Different than a BACKYARD BREEDER, puppy pills are commercial
operations that:
      (1)   Sell puppies without screening of the purchaser;
      (2)   Sell un-weaned (under eight weeks of age) or diseased puppies;
      (3)   Isolate breeding dogs from human interaction in unhealthy, often
deplorable, conditions;
      (4)   House breeding dogs in crates, kennels, trailers, garages, barns,
etc., without access to light or exercise;
      (5)   Do not provide adequate shelter, food, water, space, or veterinary
care as defined in this chapter.
   RECOGNIZED TRAINING FACILITY. Any person holding a state kennel license and
a business license for either of the purposes described in this definition.
   RIDING SCHOOL or STABLE. A commercial pet establishment that has available
for hire, boarding and/or riding instruction any horse, burro, donkey, pony or
mule.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Any animal that leaves or strays from the land owned,
rented or leased by the owner or possessor of the animal or that the animal is
not under direct control as defined in this section.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. Any dog that is individually trained to do work or perform
tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability, including a physical,
sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental disability or as otherwise
defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act. A COMFORT DOG is not protected
under the ADA.
   SHELTER (adequate). Providing protective cover for a domestic animal
appropriate for its species and offering adequate space to ensure the animal's
safety and good health. Adequate shelter should:
      (1)   Be structurally sound, maintained in good repair, and constructed
with material that protects the animal from injury;
      (2)   Allow the animal easy access in and out;
      (3)   Have a weather resistant top, bottom, and sides;
      (4)   Have an opening on no more than one side that allows the animal to
remain dry and have a floor that is level, dry, and raised, if necessary, to
prevent water/snow from entering the structure;
      (5)   Have a solid roof sloped away from the entrance, be free from
cracks, depressions, and rough areas that might be conducive to insects,
parasites, and other pests;
      (6)   Be of adequate size to allow the animal to stand erect with the
animal's head up, turn around easily, and to sit and lie down in a comfortable
and normal position;
      (7)   When the temperature is 80 degrees or higher, or whenever
appropriate for a particular dog's breed, age, body and health condition, offer
adequate shade during daylight hours, provided by trees, a tarp or other means,
that prevents overheating or discomfort to the animal; and
      (8)   When the temperature is 40 degrees or lower, or whenever
appropriate for a particular dog's breed, age, body and health condition,
include sufficient, dry bedding material or other means of protection from the
weather that will allow the animal to retain body heat when the weather is
colder than what an animal of that breed and condition can comfortably
tolerate.
   SPACE (ADEQUATE). Any area in which an animal is confined should be suitable
for the animal's species, size, age, and breed, allowing the animal to turn
about freely, stand, sit, lie, and move comfortably and in a normal position.
Sick and injured animals should be confined as directed by a veterinarian.
   TUFTS ANIMAL CARE AND CONDITION SCALES (TACC). Developed for use by
veterinarians, animal control officers, police, and cruelty investigators by
Tufts Center for Animals and Public Policy for the purpose of assessing body
condition, weather and environmental safety, and physical care in dogs.
   UNSANITARY CONDITIONS. Animal housing or quarters, including exercise areas,
that are contaminated by health hazards, irritants, items or conditions that
endanger or pose a risk to an animal's health, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Excessive animal waste, garbage and trash;
      (2)   Standing water or mud;
      (3)   Rancid/contaminated food or water;
      (4)   Fumes, foul or noxious odor, air, hazardous chemicals or poisons;
      (5)   Decaying material;
      (6)   Uncontrolled parasite or rodent infestation; or
      (7)   Areas that contain nails, screws, broken glass, broken boards,
pits, poisons, sharp implements or other items that could cause injury, illness
or death to an animal.
   VENTILATION (adequate). Fresh air sufficient to provide for the health of an
animal.
   VETERINARY CARE (adequate).  Care provided under the direction of a licensed
veterinarian and includes medical care necessary to maintain an animal's health
and prevent unnecessary suffering. Adequate care is based on age, species and
breed, and the potential for a disease or condition to spread to other animals
or humans, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Ongoing infections;
      (2)   Infestation of parasites;
      (3)   Any disease; or
      (4)   Any medical condition or injury where withholding or neglecting to
provide such care would endanger the health or welfare of the animal.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. A commercial animal establishment maintained and
operated by a licensed veterinarian for surgery, disease diagnosis, treatment
of disease and injuries of animals.
   WATER (adequate). Water that is clean, fresh, potable water sufficient to
prevent dehydration, properly sustain health, and prevent significant risk to
the animal's health. Snow, ice, rancid or contaminated water are excluded from
the definition of adequate water.
   WILD ANIMAL. Animal that lives in the wild or is not domesticated (excluding
feral cats). This chapter is not intended to regulate wild and or exotic
animal. Regulation of wild and or exotic animals is governed through the State
of Indiana, 312 IAC, Article 9, Fish and Wildlife.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. A commercial animal establishment displaying or exhibiting,
without the primary purpose of selling, one or more species of non-domesticated
animals operated by a person or governmental agency.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Any owner of an animal, including livestock, kept in the city shall
see that such animal has access to adequate food, water, and space as defined
in this chapter, and that the following conditions; if applicable; are met:
      (1)   Animals are kept in a safe, clean, sanitary and healthy manner and
are not confined so as to be forced to stand, sit or lie in its own excrement.
The person responsible for the animal shall regularly, and as often as
necessary, maintain all animal areas or areas of animal contact to prevent odor
or health and sanitation problems.
      (2)   Dog and cat owners must ensure their pets have access to adequate
shelter as defined in this chapter.
      (3)   Dog and cat owners must ensure their pets are current on all
required vaccinations including rabies as well as distemper and parvovirus
inoculations.
      (4)   Animals are protected against abuse, cruelty, neglect, or any other
mistreatment.
      (5)   Animals receive adequate veterinary care as defined in this
chapter, and if diseased or exhibiting symptoms of disease, receives proper
medical care and is segregated from other animals so as to prevent transmittal
of the disease.
      (6)   Animals are maintained in compliance with all applicable federal,
state and local laws and all regulations respecting animal care and control as
are adopted by the city.
      (7)   Every owner of every animal kept in the city shall see that such
animal shall have proper and adequate food that is nutritionally appropriate
for the species in adequate amounts to maintain good health, fresh potable
drinking water, shelter and ventilation, including quarters that are protected
from excessive heat and cold and are of sufficient size to permit the animal to
exercise and move about freely.
      (8)   Shall not be tethered by use of a choke collar.
   (B)   In addition to the general requirements of the duties and
responsibilities of animal owners in this section, every owner or keeper of an
animal kept in the city (excluding livestock) shall see that:
      (1)   Animals kept outdoors have access to adequate shelter, food, water,
and space, as defined in this chapter, in all weather conditions.
      (2)   In accordance to the Tufts Animal Care and Condition Scales, when
the temperature is:
         (a)   40 degrees or lower, or whenever appropriate for a particular
dog's breed, age, body and health condition, include sufficient, dry bedding
material or other means of protection from the weather that will allow the
animal to retain body heat when the weather is colder than what an animal of
that breed and condition can comfortably tolerate; and
         (b)   80 degrees or higher, or whenever appropriate for a particular
dog's breed, age, body and health condition, offer adequate shade during
daylight hours, provided by trees, a tarp or other means, that prevents
overheating or discomfort to the animal.
      (3)   In extreme weather conditions and temperatures, including a heat
advisory, wind chill warning, or tornado warning that has been issued by local,
state, or national authority, animals must be monitored by a competent person
and have access to adequate shelter, food, water, and space, including adequate
bedding and/or shade as described in this section, or, continued and
uninterrupted access to a climate controlled facility.
      (4)   Cases will be investigated by law enforcement on an individual
basis using the Tufts Animal Care and Condition Scales to determine the proper
resources and care necessary to ensure each animal's safety and well-being
based on its breed, age, body and health condition, and acclimation to the
environment and weather conditions.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit or restrict the use of
livestock guard dogs, livestock working dogs, or dogs that are engaged in
lawful hunting activities, if the dogs are accompanied and monitored by the
owner or custodian of the dogs.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall restrict an owner/keeper from allowing
an animal to be outside for reasonable amounts of time during extreme
temperatures to relieve itself and exercise if the animal is being monitored by
a competent person.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.04 PERMANENT IDENTIFICATION OF DOGS AND CATS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person who owns a dog or cat in the city shall ensure that each dog
or cat owned by that person bears a permanent means of identification at all
times, such that the owner of a lost or stolen dog or cat can be ascertained
quickly and easily.
   (B)   The means of identification required by this section shall be in
addition to any tags required to be worn by animals by state law or other
provision of this code, and shall be either by means of:
      (1)   A microchip implanted in the dog or cat or animal which bears a
registered identification number, and which can be read by a standard microchip
scanner; or
      (2)   A permanent tag attached to a durable collar worn at all times by
the dog or cat and bearing the owner's current name and telephone number.
      (3)   Each veterinarian or other person in the county who implants
microchips as contemplated in this section shall give to any requesting law
enforcement officer or animal care and control division the names, addresses,
and phone numbers of the owners of any animal, and the corresponding microchip
identification numbers without court order.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to own a dog or cat three months of
age or older which is kept in the city, and which does not bear a permanent
means of identification as provided in this section.
   (D)   Prior to the return to its owner of an impounded dog or cat which at
the time of impoundment did not bear a permanent means of identification as
required in this Code, the Humane Society shall cause a microchip with a
registered identification number to be implanted in the animal with the cost to
be paid by the animal owner.
   (E)   A person violating this section may be fined per §
91.99.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.05 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS AND ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any animal to allow
such animal to run at large, whether wearing a collar and tag or not, within
the incorporated or unincorporated areas of the city. Any and all such animals
found running at large, whether wearing a collar and tag or not, shall be
immediately impounded by officers of the Animal Control Unit or any police
officer. The officers may pursue the animal onto private property to effect
capture of such animal.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any animal to
exercise reasonable care and take all necessary steps and precautions to
protect other people, property, and animals from injuries or damage which might
result from the animal's behavior. If the owner or custodian of any animal is a
minor, the parent or guardian of such minor shall be jointly responsible for
the minor's violation of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any animal to
ensure that the animal is kept under restraint and that reasonable care and
precautions are taken to prevent the animal from leaving the real property
limits of its owner, possessor, or custodian, and ensure that it is:
      (1)   Securely and humanely enclosed within a house, building, fence, pen
or other enclosure out of which it cannot climb, dig, jump, or otherwise escape
on its own volition; and that such enclosure is securely locked at any time the
animal is left unattended;
      (2)   Securely and humanely restrained by chain, cable or trolley, or
other tether of sufficient strength to prevent escape;
      (3)   On a leash and under the direct control of a competent person while
on public property or property open to the public; or off a leash and obedient
to that person's command and that person is present with the animal any time it
is not restrained as provided for in divisions (C)(1) or (2) above while on the
owner's property or areas designated as dog parks.
   (D)   The owners or keeper of any female dog or cat in heat kept in the city
shall confine the animal within a secure enclosure and in such a manner as to
prevent it from becoming a nuisance and in such a manner so as to prevent
conception except during planned breeding; or tether any unsterilized dog for
any period of time unless the dog is in visual range of a competent person who
is outside with the dog and done so in accordance with §
91.05.
   (E)   The chaining of dogs is discouraged, but if it is done, the following
is required:
      (1)   The animal must have shelter from the weather, yet free from
becoming entangled with the tether. The animal must have access to the shelter
for the duration it is tethered. Adequate shelter must be kept and maintained
in accordance with the definition provided in this chapter.
      (2)   The tether must be at least 12 feet in length with operational
swivels on both ends. If the dog is attached to a trolley system, the running
line must be at least 12 feet in length and the tether length must be greater
than the height of the running line.
      (3)   The animal shall not be tethered by use of a choke collar nor by
any rope, chain or cord directly attached to the animal's neck. The tether must
be not of a weight heavy enough to cause physical damage to the animal's neck
or body.
      (4)   The tether must be attached in a manner so that it cannot wrap
around vertical items such as a barrel, pole or tree. It must be able to move
freely in all directions.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any animal to be permanently tethered
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; or to tether or confine an
animal at a vacant structure or premises for any purpose or time when it is not
monitored by a competent person who is present at the property for the duration
of such tethering or confinement.
   (F)   The owner or custodian of any guard dog or watchdog must confine such
dog within a perimeter fence and meet the following conditions:
      (1)   The fence shall be sufficient to prevent the dog's escape, with all
points of ingress and egress securely locked at all times.
      (2)   A Beware of Dog sign shall be conspicuously displayed on each
exterior side of the enclosure for each 50 feet of enclosure, with a minimum of
two, as well as a sign on each ingress or egress point to the enclosure. Signs
shall be a minimum of 10 inches high and 14 inches long.
   (G)   Exceptions to this section include:
      (1)   Animal is involved in a scheduled dog show or obedience
demonstration or trial, or is legally involved in hunting or retrieving game
animals; or
      (2)   Animal is a certified service animal providing assistance to its
handler; or
      (3)   Animal is a public safety K-9 unit working in an official capacity.
   (H)   The following additional precautions shall be taken by the owners of
dangerous animals, as defined in §
91.02:
      (1)   Restraint and enclosure of dangerous animals. The owner of a
dangerous animal shall restrain his/her animal, as required herein, immediately
upon being notified that said animal has been declared dangerous by an Animal
Control Officer, regardless of the owner's intent to request a hearing or file
any appeal. An animal declared to be a dangerous animal shall be restrained as
follows:
         (a)   While on the owner's property, a dangerous animal shall be
securely confined indoors or outside in a proper enclosure, as defined in §
91.07, with all points of ingress and egress securely locked at all times.
         (b)   When the dangerous animal is outside of its proper enclosure but
on the owner's property, it must be attended by the owner and restrained by a
secure collar and leash of sufficient strength to prevent escape. The leash
shall be no longer than ten feet, and the dangerous animal must be kept at
least 15 feet within the perimeter boundaries of the property unless the
perimeter boundary is securely fenced. A dangerous animal shall be muzzled
while outside of its enclosure. Upon impounding a dangerous animal for any
reason, the animal control officer may, for reasons of public safety, retain
the animal at the impoundment facility until disposition by the appropriate
court.
         (c)   No dangerous animal shall be chained, tethered, or otherwise
tied to any inanimate object such as a tree, post or building, outside of its
own proper enclosure as provided for in this chapter.
         (d)   The owner shall post the premises with a clearly visible warning
sign that displays a brightly-colored and clearly visible warning symbol that
informs children of the presence of a dangerous dog.
         (e)   While restrained on the owner's property, a dangerous animal
shall be provided with the same care as provided by in §
91.07.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.06 PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMALS AND FERAL CATS.
   (A)   A public nuisance animal shall mean and include any animal that:
      (1)   Is repeatedly found at large;
      (2)   Damages the property of anyone other than the owner;
      (3)   Is declared a dangerous animal;
      (4)   Attacks without provocation;
      (5)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including but not limited to,
continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing
unreasonable disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close
proximity to the premises where the animal is kept;
      (6)   Creates unsanitary conditions or offensive and objectionable odors
in enclosures or surroundings and thereby creates unreasonable disturbance or
discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the
animal is kept; or
      (7)   Is not being kept in conformity with city zoning ordinances.
   (B)   Any such public nuisance animal may be impounded and/or the owner
charged for a violation of this chapter. The city's zoning requirements are
found in Title XV of this Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   Feral cats.
      (1)   The city may establish a fund, provide services, or an approved
assistance program to offset the costs of trapping, neutering, and vaccinating
captured feral cats that can be returned to an appropriate, controlled,
protected and registered colony site. Caregivers for such colonies, whether one
or several animals, may be aided by the city or county or the approved
assistance program in providing traps for the capture of the cat,
transportation to a spay/neuter facility and offsetting costs, to the extent
that funding is available.
      (2)   Each feral cat colony will be registered by the caregivers with Low
Cost Spay Neuter Clinic, Inc. which will maintain current and historical
information on caregivers, education for new caregivers, and assistance for
persons found in violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Approved assistance programs for feral cat colonies within the
county will exist only with the approval of the home owner or neighborhood
association, if applicable, in which the colonies are to exist.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for a person to provide food, water or shelter
to a colony of feral cats, unless:
         (a)   The colony is an approved managed colony, registered with Low
Cost Spay Neuter Clinic, Inc.;
         (b)   The food, water or shelter is provided in conjunction with the
implementation of trap, neuter, and return methodology as set forth below; and
         (c)   The caregiver is using ear tipping on feral cats in order to be
identified as a spayed or neutered and a vaccinated member of a managed colony.
      (5)   An approved feral cat colony caretaker, in order to obtain control
of the feral cat population in the county shall:
         (a)   Humanely trap and sterilize (spay/neuter) and left ear-tip all
cats that can be captured by an authorized veterinarian.
         (b)   Vaccinate, as required by law, all cats that can be captured:
            1.   Against rabies, preferably with a three-year vaccine; and
            2.   Any other infectious disease as mandated by law.
         (c)   Colony caretakers shall have a licensed veterinarian evaluate
the health of all trapped feral cats. Seriously ill or injured cats with no
reasonable prognosis for humane rehabilitation for survival outdoors will be
humanely euthanized.
         (d)   Release all non-feral cats to animal control or humane society
for adoption or placement in accordance with the law.
         (e)   Make every attempt to remove kittens from the colony by eight
weeks of age for domestication, spay/neuter, and placement.
         (f)   Make every attempt to remove sick or injured cats from the
colony for immediate veterinary care or humane euthanasia.
      (6)   Colony caretakers shall:
         (1)   Abide by the standard guidelines devised by this chapter, animal
control or its designee, regarding the provisions of food, water, and shelter
and veterinary care for the cats within the managed colony.
         (2)   Ensure responsibility and arrangements for feeding the cat
colony regularly throughout the year, including weekends, holidays and
vacations of the feral cat caregiver.
         (3)   Maintain proof of sterilization, vaccination, tattoo or implant
and medical records from a licensed veterinarian at all times. These records
must be provided to the Humane Society, Low Cost Spay Neuter Clinic Inc., or
law enforcement upon request.
      (7)   Any law enforcement authority may impound feral cats in violation
of this section. Any feral cats impounded by law enforcement authority that
bears an appropriate eartipping indicating it belongs to a managed colony may,
at the discretion of law enforcement be returned to its managed colony unless
illness or injury present an imminent danger to public health or safety.
      (8)   Any person or caregiver determined to be in violation of division
(C)(4), (5) or (6) shall be issued a written warning and be allowed a period of
time to come into compliance or provide satisfactory evidence of working to
achieve compliance. Failure to comply shall result in a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.07 DANGEROUS ANIMALS DECLARATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, or be
responsible for the presence of any dangerous or dangerous animal on the
streets or public places of the city or allow the animal to run on the premises
of another at any time. Upon impounding a dangerous animal for any reason, the
Animal Control Officer may, for reasons of public safety, retain the animal at
the Hamilton County Humane Society until disposition by the appropriate court.
   (B)   The following additional precautions shall be taken by the owners,
possessors, or custodians of animals deemed dangerous. In addition to the
requirements in §
91.05, the owner of a dog deemed dangerous who maintains said dog out-of-doors
shall fence a portion of the property with a second perimeter or area fence.
Within this perimeter or area fence, said animal must be humanely confined
inside a pen or kennel of adequate size. The pen or kennel may not share common
fencing with the area or perimeter fence. The kennel or pen must have secure
sides and a secure top attached to all sides. The sides must either be buried
two feet into the ground, sunken into a concrete pad, or securely attached to a
wire bottom. The gate to the kennel shall be of the inward-opening type and
shall be kept locked except when tending to the animal's needs such as cleaning
the kennel or providing food and water.
   (C)   An Animal Control Officer has authority and may declare as DANGEROUS
any animal that:
      (1)   Has inflicted severe injury or multiple minor injuries on a human
being;
      (2)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury to a privately owned animal
while the animal is off its owner's property;
      (3)   Has been previously found to be dangerous, the owner having
received notice of such and the animal again bites, attacks, or endangers the
safety of humans or privately owned animals; or
      (4)   Has been declared dangerous by any other governmental jurisdiction
for violations of state statutes or local ordinances that meet the standards
set forth in this section.
      (5)   Except that animals shall not be declared dangerous if the threat,
injury, or damage was sustained by someone committing a willful trespass or
other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the animal; was or has
been observed tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal; or was committing
or attempting to commit a crime.
   (D)   Declaration of dangerous animal; notice, hearing and appeal.
      (1)   If an Animal Control Officer determines an animal should be
declared dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall prepare a notice, and
serve it upon the owner of the animal by U.S. certified mail, personal service,
or by posting notice at residence. The notice shall contain the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the owner of the animal being declared
dangerous;
         (b)   The breed, color, sex, registration number and Microchip number
(if known) of said animal;
         (c)   The facts upon which the determination of dangerous animal is
based;
         (d)   That the animal shall immediately be restrained as required in §
91.05;
         (e)   That the animal shall be registered within ten days of receiving
the notice unless a hearing is requested as provided for in division (D)(2) of
this section;
         (f)   A statement explaining if additional violations occur, the
animal may be declared a dangerous animal pursuant to this division (D), and
required to be registered; and
         (g)   A statement that the notice constitutes a final determination
that the animal is dangerous, unless the owner requests a hearing within ten
days, as provided in division (D)(2).
      (2)   In the event an owner receiving a notice requests a hearing, the
owner must submit the request in writing to the City Court within ten days
after notice is given. The written request shall be sent to the City of
Fishers, Attn: Fishers City Court, 3 Municipal Drive, Fishers, Indiana 46038.
The City Court shall hold a hearing within ten days of receiving the written
request. The City Court shall notify the owner of the date, time and place of
the hearing, as well as the right to present evidence as to why the dog should
not be declared dangerous.
      (3)   The City Court Judge shall rule at the time of the hearing or
notify, in writing, the owner of the dog animal of the Court's decision within
ten days of the hearing.
      (4)   The Court's decision and or civil penalty may be appealed as
provided under the laws of the State of Indiana.
      (5)   If the dangerous animal declaration is upheld, the owner has ten
days from the notification date to comply with the registration requirements.
      (6)   Any animal who has been the subject of a prior judgement in which a
court made a finding that the animal was dangerous, violent, or vicious will be
considered an animal deemed dangerous for purposes of this section.
      (7)   A finding that an animal is not a dangerous animal shall not
prevent the Animal Control Officer from seeking to have the animal declared
dangerous as the result of any subsequent action by the animal.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to law enforcement dogs.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.08 ANIMAL BITES AND QUARANTINE.
   (A)   All animal bites shall be reported to the Police Department by the
person bitten and by the owner of the animal which has bitten someone. The
person owning any animal reported to have bitten any person shall keep such
animal quarantined not less than ten days. Any animal showing signs of illness
must be taken to a veterinarian or the Humane Society of Hamilton County for
quarantine and notification to the City Health Officer must be made by the
custodian of the signs of illness.
   (B)   It is the duty of the person bitten or the person's parent or guardian
to make the report in conformance with Indiana law. Law enforcement K-9 dogs
are exempted from this section.
   (C)   An owner or keeper of an animal commits a violation of this chapter if
that animal chases or approaches in an aggressive manner and/or attacks a
person or another domestic animal resulting in injury who did not provoke the
animal prior to the attack.
      (1)   It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section if:
         (a)   The violation occurred in an enclosure in which the animal was
confined without means of escape, there was posted at the main entrance of the
enclosure a notice to beware of the animal, or the person or animal attacked
entered the enclosure without invitation; or
         (b)   The violation occurred during the commission or attempted
commission of, or escape from, a criminal act on the property of the owner or
keeper of the animal.
   (D)   A person violating this section may be fined as set forth in §
91.99. If a judgement is entered under this section the Court, in its
discretion, may enter a finding that the animal is deemed a dangerous animal
for purposes of §
91.07. If the violation results in the animal causing serious injury or death
to any person or animal, the Court upon request, may order the animal forfeited
or destroyed.
   (E)   The liability imposed by this section shall not reduce, substitute for
or in any manner be deemed to be in derogation of the rights accorded victims
of dog bite injury or property damages as provided for at IC 15-20-1-3 et seq.
or by common law.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.09 COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Standards for commercial establishments and animal care facilities are as
follows:
   (A)   The establishment must be operated in such a manner as not to
constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   The establishment shall provide an isolation area for animals that are
sick or diseased to be placed in so as not to spread disease to healthy
animals.
   (C)   All animals must be kept caged, within a secure enclosure or under the
control of the owner/operator at all times.
   (D)   The establishment must provide the level of care provided for in the
city's animal care ordinances to all animals kept on the premises.
   (E)   The establishment will not sell animals which are unweaned or
diseased.
   (F)   The establishment will not engage in any forms of cruelty,
mistreatment or neglect.
   (G)   The establishment shall permit the Animal Control Officer to inspect
at any and all times the premises where the animals are kept.
   (H)   The establishment must provide each animal with sufficient space to
stand up, lie down and turn around in a natural position without touching the
sides or top of the enclosure.
   (I)   An animal care facility and/or commercial animal establishments are
defined by, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Shelter, kennel or animal daycare;
      (2)   Breeding or boarding facility;
      (3)   Pet store;
      (4)   Pet grooming shop;
      (5)   Humane society;
      (6)   Animal training facility;
      (7)   Auction;
      (8)   Flea market;
      (9)   Circus;
      (10)   Riding school or stable;
      (11)   Veterinary clinic or hospital; and
      (12)   Zoological park.
   (J)   All animal care facilities, other than a circus temporarily located
within the city for less than ten days per year, shall be located at a
permanent building or facility and shall be permitted at that location by the
applicable zoning and breeder permit requirements/laws.
   (K)   The city adopts the Code of Federal Regulations, 9 CFR 3.1 through
3.19 as the standards for operation and inspection of kennels.
   (L)   Puppy mills, as defined in §
91.02, will not be permitted in the city. No person shall engage in,
participate in, or assist with those activities defined as a backyard breeder
or puppy mill in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.10 DISPOSITION OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person finding a dead domestic animal or the surviving young within
the city shall call the Animal Control Officer or Police Department. A person
finding a dead undomesticated animal on public property within the city may
call the city or the Police Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to allow the body, or parts thereof,
of any dead animal to be kept, held, or disposed of in violation of this
section, as follows:
      (1)   No person who operates a slaughterhouse, butcher shop or other
place in the city shall permit any parts of dead animals that are not fit and
intended for use as food to accumulate or be kept on such premises for over 24
hours after being received, or after the death of such animal;
      (2)   No person shall skin, dismember, dissect, cut up or dispose of the
body of a dead animal, or any parts thereof in the city, unless the person is
regularly engaged in such business of killing and disposing of such animals for
use as food or otherwise, and is so authorized by law, or does so for the
person's own use; and
      (3)   No person shall possess, keep, use or dispose of anywhere in the
city, a dead animal or parts thereof, or offal of a live animal in any manner
that creates offensive odors or sights, or constitutes a public nuisance which
affects health and comfort in any respect.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the legal handling and
processing of game harvested under legal hunting or fishing practices, as
permitted by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the State
Department of Natural Resources
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.11 CRUELTY; NEGLECT; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Animal cruelty. A person who does any of the following commits animal
cruelty under this section:
      (1)   Willfully or maliciously kills, abuses, maims, tortures, or
disfigures any animal or willfully or maliciously administers poison to any
animal or exposes any poisonous substance with the intent that the poisonous
substance shall be taken and swallowed by such animal;
      (2)   Overloads, overworks, torments, or intentionally deprives an animal
of its necessary food, water or shelter resulting in preventable suffering or
death;
      (3)   Beats, mutilates, uses for the purposes of bait as defined in this
chapter, or causes said actions to occur; or
      (4)   Engages in any of the following:
         (a)   Owns, possesses, keeps or trains any animal with the intent that
such animal shall be engaged in an exhibition of fighting;
         (b)   Builds, makes, maintains, or keeps a pit on premises owned or
occupied by the animal owner or allows a pit to be built, made, maintained or
kept on said premises for the purposes of an exhibition of animal fighting;
         (c)   Encourages, instigates, promotes or assists in an exhibition of
animal fighting or intentional combat; or
         (d)   Charges admission; is an assistant, umpire or participant; or is
present as a spectator to any exhibition of animal fighting or combat.
   (B)   Animal neglect. A person who owns or confines any animal and fails to
supply it with adequate shelter, food, water, space or veterinary care, as
defined in this chapter, with such acts committed without malicious or punitive
intent commits animal neglect under this section.
   (C)   Animal abandonment. A person who abandons an animal in a residence or
other owned property or confines an animal outside for the purposes of
abandonment at a residence, place of business, or the Humane Society for
Hamilton County commits animal abandonment under this section.
   (D) Any Animal Control Officer or other officer empowered to act by law may
impound any animal found to be the victim of animal cruelty, animal neglect or
animal abandonment.
   (E)   Nothing in the section shall be deemed to prohibit the humane
slaughter of livestock or poultry in conformance with all applicable rules and
regulations of the State Board of Health and the United States Food and Drug
Administration.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing, as
permitted by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the State
Department of Natural Resources.
   (G)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of commercially sold
poisons for the control of rats, mice, groundhogs, moles or other similar
rodents as long as the person using the poisons uses reasonable care to ensure
that neither domestic animals nor livestock are exposed to the poisons.
   (H)   A person violating this section of may be fined per §
91.99. If the Court finds that a person has violated this section the Court
may, in its discretion, order other owned pets be seized by law enforcement
with ownership relinquished to the Humane Society for Hamilton County, order
the forfeiture of future pet ownership within city, order counseling or order
the animal owner to pay restitution.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.12 VACCINATION OF DOGS, CATS AND FERRETS.
   (A)   See IAC Title 345: Indiana State Board of Animal Health.
   (B)   All dogs and cats three months of age and older must be vaccinated
against rabies. The rabies vaccination of a dog, cat, or ferret shall be
maintained by ongoing revaccination of the animal as follows:
      (1)   Ferrets shall be revaccinated within 12 months of the prior
vaccination.
      (2)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine the label
of which recommends annual boosters shall be revaccinated within 12 months of
the prior vaccination.
      (3)   Dog and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine the label of
which recommends a booster one year later and triennially thereafter shall be
revaccinated within 36 months of each vaccination thereafter.
   (C)   The owner of the animal is responsible for procuring the vaccinations
required by this section.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.13 REPORT OF VEHICULAR COLLISION WITH ANIMAL.
   A person whose vehicle causes injury or death to a domestic or wild animal
in the city shall immediately notify the animal's owner, if known, or a local
law enforcement agency, together with a description of the animal struck, the
location of the striking and an estimate as to the condition of the animal
after being struck. Such person shall not be required to report his or her
name, as the only purpose of this requirement is to aid the stricken animal and
notify its owner, if any.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.14 INTERFERING WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful to interfere with any Animal Control Officer or other
officer empowered to act by law, to take or attempt to take any animal from the
city official vehicle used to transport the animal, or to take or attempt to
take any animal from the Animal Control Shelter or impounding area.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.15 INJURED ANIMALS; ACTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring any animal by any means
to fail to notify immediately the owner of the animal or the Police Department.
   (B)   Notification shall include the location and description of the animal
and the condition of the animal if known.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.16 ANIMAL WASTE.
   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any feces
deposited by his or her animal on public property, public walks, public parks,
beaches, recreation areas or private property of others. Owners of service dogs
may be exempted from this section.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.17 LOST OR STRAY ANIMALS.
   A person finding a stray animal is to notify the Humane Society within 48
hours. At the discretion of the Humane Society, the animal may be kept by the
finder and a found pet report left with the department, to enable the finder an
opportunity to return the animal to its rightful owner. Upon demand by the
Humane Society, any found animal will be surrendered and held for a minimum of
seven days before a disposition is made. The Humane Society is then required to
hold the animal for a period of seven days beginning the day the animal is
brought to the facility. If after the seven-day period the animal remains
unclaimed by its rightful owners, the animal becomes the property of the Humane
Society. A person finding an animal is obligated to comply with all rules and
regulations of this chapter pertaining to humane care and treatment of animals,
while the animal is in custody awaiting return to its actual owner. With the
exception of the Humane Society for the city, the finder will be considered the
found animal's owner for the purpose of this section only after the animal is
in the finder's custody for 30 continuous days.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.18 ANIMALS IN VEHICLES.
   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle when the conditions in that
vehicle would constitute a health hazard to the animal (extreme heat or cold).
No animal shall be transported in any non- passenger compartment of any vehicle
on public property unless confined in an appropriate manner intended to prevent
the animal from jumping from the vehicle or being thrown from the vehicle in an
accident or rapid stop or other use of the vehicle which could cause injury to
the pet, any person, or property. No animal shall be transported in the trunk
of any vehicle.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.19 ANIMAL SACRIFICE.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, participate in, assist in or perform animal
sacrifice. No person shall own, keep, possess or harbor any animal with the
purpose or intention of using such animal for animal sacrifice. No person shall
knowingly sell, offer for sale, give away or transfer any animal to any person
when he or she knows or believes that person intends to use such animal for
animal sacrifice. This section does not prohibit slaughter of animals for
agriculture purposes.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit, abridge, or in
any way hinder the religious freedom of any person or group. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this act, in order to protect freedom of religion,
ritual slaughter and the handling or other preparation of livestock for ritual
slaughter are exempted from the terms of this section.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.20 STERILIZATION OF DOGS AND CATS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each dog and cat over the age of six months which is kept in the city
shall be sterilized and rendered incapable of reproducing by a licensed
veterinarian, with the following exceptions as long as the requirements noted
herein are met:
      (1)   A free breeder's permit has been secured according to the process
noted in this section;
      (2)   Current pets are receiving adequate care, shelter, and veterinary
care as defined in this chapter;
      (3)   The animal's health or a special medical condition puts them at
risk for complications due to surgery according to an authorized veterinarian;
      (4)   Owner is considered an approved breeder as defined in §
91.02 or has obtained the appropriate special use permit from the Zoning Board;
or
      (5)   Owner has not surrendered an animal(s) to the Humane Society for
Hamilton County or allowed an animal to run at large.
   (B)   A free breeder's permit shall be obtained by the following
individuals:
      (1)   Any person who intentionally causes or accidentally allows the
breeding of a dog or cat they own;
      (2)   An approved breeder commercial animal establishment as defined in §
91.02;
      (3)   Any person owning or having custody of a dog or cat which is older
than six months of age, which has not been sterilized for any reason other than
the exceptions noted herein.
   (C)   Such breeder's permit shall:
      (1)   Allow the non-sterilization of animals owned by the permittee for
one 12-month period after the date of issuance;
      (2)   Allow the non-sterilization of animals owned by the permittee for
the life of the pet with the issuance of a letter from an authorized
veterinarian stating the animal's health or a special medical condition puts
them at risk for complications due to surgery.
   (D)   The holder of a breeder's permit shall:
      (1)   Transmit to the new owner or buyer the litter number of the animal
acquired and the breeder's permit number in order that the new owner has
assurance and proof that the animal was legally bred;
      (2)   Immunize all dogs and cats offered for sale, trade, or other
compensation or for free give away against the most common contagious diseases;
for dogs against canine distemper, hepatitis, and parvovirus and for cats
against feline rhinotracheitis, calicivirus, and panleukopenia;
      (3)   Not offer a puppy or kitten under the age of eight weeks for sale,
trade or other compensation or for free giveaway;
      (4)   Furnish a warrant of health for a period of not less than one week
with the recommendation to have the animal examined by a licensed veterinarian
for each animal sold, traded, or given away.
   (E)   Each holder of a valid breeder's permit shall register additional
litters with the humane officer. Each additional litter registration shall
comply with the same requirements as the original breeder's permit. Failure to
register each litter shall be considered a violation of this section.
   (F)   Each breeder's permit shall be obtained from the Animal Control
Officer at no cost to the pet owner or approved breeder on an annual basis.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.21 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON OWNERS OF DANGEROUS OR NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has been found in violation of
§§
91.03,
91.05,
91.06,
91.07,
91.08, or
91.11 to own or keep more than two animals in the city or to own or keep any
animal:
      (1)   That has not been spayed or neutered by a veterinarian; or
      (2)   That has not been implanted with a microchip with a registered
identification number.
   (B)   A person who violates §§
91.03,
91.05,
91.06,
91.07,
91.08, or
91.11 shall keep any animal owned or kept by that person outside in a
structural enclosure sufficient to confine the animal without means of escape,
unless the animal is on a leash and under the control of a competent person.
   (C)   A person who is under additional restrictions that commits subsequent
violations of §§
91.03,
91.05,
91.06,
91.07,
91.08, or
91.11 shall be subject to forfeiture of their animal to the enforcement
authority and may be prohibited by a Court from owning.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.22 SERVICE ANIMALS IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person may enter a city building when accompanied by an animal
unless authorized by this section.
   (B)   Before a person accompanied by an animal is permitted into the city
buildings, any authorized security person or other city department head or his/
her designee, shall make inquiry as to:
      (1)   Whether the animal is required because of a disability; and
      (2)   Whether the animal has been trained to perform specific work or
tasks to assist the person with his/her disability.
   (C)   Upon receiving a satisfactory affirmative answer to the above
questions, the animal may accompany its handler into the part of the city
building available to the general public.
   (D)   The animal must be under the handler's control by a harness, leash, or
other tether.
   (E)   If the individual is unable to use a harness, leash, or tether because
use would interfere with the safe and effective performance or task by the
handler, the animal must otherwise be under the control by voice control
signals or other effective means of the disabled individual, as approved by the
city department head or his/her designee.
   (F)   An animal which an individual uses solely for emotional support,
therapy, comfort, or companionship shall not [be] permitted to enter city
buildings, unless expressly authorized by court order issued by a city or
Hamilton County court or building security.
   (G)   Under no circumstance shall this section permit any incarcerated
person to possess an animal in any city building.
   (H)   Any person who is refused admission into a city building with an
animal pursuant to this section and continues to enter the public building with
the animal, may be fined.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.23 JURISDICTION.
   The City Council finds that the terms and conditions of this chapter are in
the best interests of all citizens of the city.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.24 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Police Department and Animal Control Officers shall be charged with
and have authority to enforce all provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The city may pursue any or a combination of the following remedies as
they deem most appropriate:
      (1)   Taking into custody and impounding any animal found to be kept in
violation of this chapter; any animal that constitutes a safety or health
hazard; any animal left without care as a result of death, injury, arrest,
detention, or other incapacitation of the owner or keeper.
      (2)   If the violation is only an ordinance violation under this chapter,
and is not concurrently a state infraction, citing the owner of the animal for
a city ordinance violation, subject to a fine as set forth in §
91.99;
      (3)   If the violation constitutes an infraction or crime under statute,
citing or arresting the owner of the animal for such state offense, subject to
penalties as provided by law; and/or
      (4)   Seeking an injunction in a court of competent jurisdiction to
require the compliance of the owner of the animal under the provisions of IC
36-1-6-4 or any other law entitling public authorities to enjoin the violation
of ordinances or statutes and including an action to recover all cost to the
city of bringing the action for injunction.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.25 AUTHORITY TO DESTROY DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, Police Department
personnel are authorized to immediately destroy any dangerous animal which
cannot be safely captured or kept in custody by usual and available means, or
which is observed to be attacking a person or livestock.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating referenced sections of this chapter shall be
considered to be committing a city ordinance violation and may be fined as
follows:
Chapter Section Violation Description            Civil Penalty
91.03           Duties and responsibilities      Up to $500 per occurrence
91.04           Permanent identification         Up to $500 per occurrence
91.05           Restraint of animals             Up to $500 per occurrence
91.06           Public nuisance animal           Up to $1500 per occurrence and
                                                 the animal may be impounded
91.06           Feral cats                       Up to $500 per occurrence
91.07           Dangerous animals                Up to $500 per occurrence
91.09           Commercial animal establishments Up to $500 per occurrence
91.10           Disposition of deal animals      Up to $500 per occurrence
91.11           Cruelty; neglect; abandonment    Up to $2500 per occurrence and
                                                 the animal may be impounded
91.12           Vaccinations                     Up to $500 per occurrence
91.13           Vehicular collision              Up to $500 per occurrence
91.14           Interfering with Animal Control/ Up to $2500 per occurrence
                Humane Officer
91.16           Animal waste                     Up to $500 per occurrence
91.18           Animals in vehicles              Up to $500 per occurrence
91.19           Animal sacrifice                 Up to $2500 per occurrence
91.20           Sterilization of dogs and cats   Up to $2500 per occurrence
91.22           Service animals in public        Up to $500 per occurrence
                buildings
 
   (B)   Any other violation that falls within this chapter is punishable by a
minimum fine of up to $500.
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter is subject to the Ordinance Violations
Bureau. A person in violation may admit their violation and pay their civil
penalty to the city's Ordinance Violations Bureau or may appear and deny their
violation and request a trial. If the person in violation denies the violation,
fails to satisfy the penalty assessed after having entered an admission of
violation or fails to deny or admit the violation, the case will be filed in
the City Court.
   (D)   Violations of any offense listed in this chapter, not covered under
penalty as a city ordinance violation, are punishable under Indiana Code,
either as an infraction or misdemeanor.
   (E)   In the event that an animal is impounded by animal control pursuant to
this chapter, and in addition to any other penalty set out in division (A) of
this section or court costs, the owner may be responsible to reimburse the city
for the cost associated with providing shelter for each impounded animal at an
animal control facility or the Hamilton County Humane Society. The money shall
be deposited in the General Fund of the city subject to appropriation to Animal
Control Fund.
   (F)   The sections of this chapter are intended to encourage the humane
treatment of animals. Therefore, any court having jurisdiction of violations of
this chapter is encouraged to use the court's deferral procedures to assist the
public to conform the treatment of animals within the city to the terms of this
chapter.
   (G)   A violation of a section of this chapter shall be cited by adding the
appropriate section or subsection to the citation.
(Ord. 092120C, passed 10-19-20)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
92.01   Adoption by reference
§ 92.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   A fire prevention code prescribing regulations consistent with nationally
recognized standards for the protection of life, environment, and property from
the hazards of fire and explosion, is hereby adopted and incorporated as part
of this Code of Ordinance as if set out at length herein. The complete
ordinance is on file in the office of the Clerk and available for public
inspection during regular office hours.
(Ord. 121905A, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 93: LITTERING
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Litter in public places
   
93.03   Placement of litter in receptacles so as to prevent scattering
   
93.04   Sweeping litter in gutters prohibited
   
93.05   Merchants’ duty to keep sidewalks free from obstructions
   
93.06   Litter thrown from vehicles
   
93.07   Truck loads causing litter
   
93.08   Litter in private places
   
93.09   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Means GARBAGE  and RUBBISH as these terms are defined herein,
newspapers, handbills, circulars, and all other waste material which, if thrown
or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public health,
safety and welfare.
   GARBAGE. Means rejected food wastes and shall include every waste,
accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter used or intended for food or
used in the preparation, use, cooking, sale or storage of meat, fish, fowl,
vegetables or fruits.
   RUBBISH. Means such matter as ashes, cans, metalware, broken glass,
crockery, foul and filthy substances, dirt, sweepings, boxes, wood, grass,
weeds and waste matter of any kind.
(Ord. 2-5-73, passed 2-5-73)
§ 93.02 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place within the city except in public receptacles or in
authorized private receptacles for collection.
(Ord. 2-5-73, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
(Ord. 2-5-73, passed 2-5-73)
§ 93.04 SWEEPING LITTER IN GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(Ord. 2-5-73, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 MERCHANTS’ DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE FROM OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Persons owning or occupying a place of business shall keep the sidewalk and
gutters in front of their premises free of litter, goods, wares, merchandise,
boxes and obstructions of all lands of whatever nature.
(Ord. 2-5-73, passed 2-5-73) Penalty, see §
93.99 
Cross-reference:
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 94
§ 93.06 LITTER THROWN FROM VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city, or upon private
property.
(Ord. 2-5-73, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place. No person shall drive or move any vehicle or truck within
the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street,
alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign
matter of any kind.
(Ord. 2-5-73, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 LITTER IN PRIVATE PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any private property
within the city, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or
person in control of private property may maintain private receptacles for
collection in such manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon any private property.
(Ord. 2-5-73, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
(Ord. 2-5-73, passed 2-3-73) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the Fishers Police
Department. Each violator of the restrictions and provisions of this chapter
shall pay a fine to the city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau in the sum and
amount set forth in §
36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action may be filed by the
City Attorney’s office in the Fishers City Court.
(Ord. 2-5-73, passed 2-5-73; Am. Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Mud, dirt and dust accumulation on streets prohibited
   
94.02   Golf carts
Excavations
   
94.10   Permit required; application; fee
   
94.11   Certain thoroughfares not to be open cut
   
94.12   Indemnification
   
94.13   Bonds required of permit applicants
   
94.14   Permit and bond required of utilities
   
94.15   Upon violation double application fee charged; other remedies
   
94.16   Unacceptable sureties and contractors
   
94.17   Underground utility hits
   
94.18   Other excavation standards
Driveways and Sidewalks
   
94.20   Written approval required
   
94.21   Application to city; fee
   
94.22   Granting or denying application
   
94.23   Issuance of driveway-sidewalk permit
   
94.24   Liability for damages without written approval
   
94.25   Public nuisance; abatement
   
94.26   Maintenance and repair
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 MUD, DIRT AND DUST ACCUMULATION ON STREETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The deposit of mud, dirt, dust, debris and/or material on the roads
and streets within the corporate limits of the city is prohibited.
   (B)   The general contractor, sub-contractor, and/or property owner shall be
jointly and severally responsible within the corporate limits of the city to
provide for all material deliveries and equipment placement to occur in a
manner that will keep adjacent and adjoining streets free of mud, dirt, dust,
debris and/or material.
   (C)   In the event that mud, dirt, dust, debris and/or materials are
deposited upon any road or street within the corporate limits of the city, the
general contractor, sub-contractor, and/or property owner shall be jointly and
severally responsible (hereinafter collectively referred to as “Violator”) to
clean said deposit of mud, dirt, dust, debris and/or material from the street
immediately. The corrective actions will include cleaning of the streets,
driveways, paths, storm sewers, ditches and all areas impacted by the actions
of the parties responsible for the stated condition. The corrective actions
will also include changes to the practices that caused the condition and
adherence to Best Management Practices per the latest version of the Indiana
Handbook for Erosion Control in Developing Areas. Written notification of
violation from the city shall be posted at the site.
   (D)   The violator must perform corrective actions within four hours of
issuance of notice of violation. Cleaning shall not be done in such a manner as
to introduce mud, dirt, dust, debris and/or material into the air or water.
Specifically, dry brooming and washing of the pavement into storm inlets,
swales, or ditches shall be prohibited. If cleaning occurs in violation of this
provision, violator shall be subject to the penalty provided in §
94.99.
   (E)   If, after said notice, all corrective actions have not been taken by
the violator within four hours, work shall be stopped on the site to which the
condition is attributable, and the violator shall be subject to the penalty
provided in §
94.99. The work shall not be resumed until the condition is corrected. The city
may post a stop work notice in the event the condition is not corrected after
notice as provided for herein.
   (F)   (1)   In the event that the condition is not corrected within the
four-hour time period and notice having been given under division (C) hereof,
the city may cause such condition to be corrected by employees of the city or
by private contract. Should correction be made under this provision, the cost
of said corrective action shall be assessed against the violator. The cost of
cleaning shall be billed to the violator.
      (2)   The violator shall pay the actual direct and indirect cost incurred
by the city in the removal of such mud, dirt, dust, debris and/or material and
the administrative cost of $100. Payment shall be made within ten days of the
date of billing. If the violator fails to pay the costs within the time
prescribed herein, a certified copy of the statement of costs shall be made in
the auditor’s office of Hamilton County, and the Auditor shall place the amount
shown on such certificate on the tax duplicate against such real estate and the
amount shall be collected as taxes are generally collected and when collected
shall be disbursed to the city for deposit in the General Fund.
   (G)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to construction
activities within streets and rights-of- way within the corporate limits of the
city which may be authorized and regulated by other applicable ordinances of
the city.
(Ord. 012187, passed 1-18-87; Am. Ord. 100798B, passed 10-21-98; Am. Ord.
062005C, passed 10-17-05; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
      GOLF CART or CART. A four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and
specifically designed and intended to transport one or more individuals for the
purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
      HIGHWAY. A road included in city's road inventory and for which the city
has primary responsibility for maintenance and oversight.
      PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Pursuant to IC 9-25-2-3, proof of
ability to respond in damages for liability that arises out of the ownership,
maintenance, or use of a golf cart in the following amounts:
         (a)   $25,000 because of bodily injury to or death of any one person;
         (b)   Subject to the limit in division (A)(1)(a) above, $50,000
because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one
accident; and
         (c)   Before July 1, 2018, $10,000 because of injury to or destruction
of property in any one accident. Beginning July 1, 2018, $25,000 because of
injury to or of property in any one accident.
   (B)   Application. This section applies to city highways and other public
ways and sidewalks. Nothing herein shall be construed to apply to or limit the
use of golf carts on:
      (1)   Golf courses;
      (2)   Private property; or
      (3)   The city’s use of golf carts on the city’s municipal property for
official purposes.
   (C)   Designated highways - neighborhood approval. To protect the safety of
city residents, golf carts shall only be operated on highways within
neighborhoods where all of the following conditions have been met:
      (1)   The city has determined, in is sole judgment, that golf carts may
be safely operated on some highways within the neighborhood; and
      (2)   The neighborhood’s home owners association (“HOA”) or the developer
of the neighborhood, as applicable, has conducted a survey of lot owners within
the neighborhood, and at least 75% of all lot owners have voted in favor of
allowing golf carts to operate on highways within the neighborhood by voting in
the affirmative to the following question:
            “Shall golf carts be used on designated roads within the [insert
name of neighborhood]?”;
      (3)   The HOA or developer, as applicable, has certified the result of
the election described in division (C)(2) the city; and
      (4)   Standard signs approved by the city have been conspicuously located
designating those highways within the neighborhood that are available for golf
cart use (collectively “designated highways”).
   (D)   Designated highways - public service exemption. In limited
circumstances, a resident may receive approval to operate a golf cart on
highways within neighborhoods where all of the following conditions have been
met:
      (1)   The resident has completed an Application for Public Service
Exemption, as provided by the Police Department;
      (2)   The city has determined, in its sole judgment, that golf carts may
be safely operated on some highways within the neighborhood for a public
service purpose; and
      (3)   Proof of financial responsibility. After reviewing a completed
Application for Public Service Exemption, and satisfaction of divisions (D)(1)
through (3) above, the Chief of Police, in his sole discretion, may designate a
resident with a public service exemption, allowing a resident to utilize a golf
cart in a designated highway for a particular public service. The exempted
resident shall receive verification of exempt status that must be carried by
the resident at all times when utilizing a golf cart for public service. The
Chief of Police, in his sole discretion, may remove the public service
exemption at any time with or without cause.
   (E)   Prohibition against operation; time of operation. Golf carts shall
only be operated on designated highways from sunrise to sunset unless such golf
cart is equipped with headlights, taillights, brake lights, seatbelts, tarn
signals, and rearview mirror.
   (F)   Valid license required. Only persons possessing a valid driver’s
license issued by the State of Indiana, another state of the United States of
America or an international agency shall be permitted to operate a golf cart on
city highways.
   (G)   Public ways. Golf carts shall not be operated on city sidewalks or
non-designated public ways or highways.
   (H)   Penalties. 
      (1)   The city shall issue a uniform ordinance violation citation to any
person violating a provision of this section in the following amounts which
shall be processed by and paid to the city Ordinance Violation Bureau as
follows:
         (a)   First offense: $50;
         (b)   Second offense within one year: $100; and
         (c)    Third offense and each additional offense within one year:
$250.
      (2)   Unpaid violations shall be referred to the City Court.
(Ord. 090214D, passed 10-6-14; Am. Ord.091718E, passed 9-17-18)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 94.10 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section.
      EXCAVATE. Activity as defined in I.C. § 8-1-26-6, as may be amended from
time to time.
      EXCAVATOR. An individual, a corporation, a partnership, a limited
liability company, an association, or other entity organized under the laws of
any state that is performing an excavation.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT. The permit issued by the city to an excavator, at
the discretion of the city, after the application and posting of a bond,
pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person, business entity, public utility, or private utility
wishing to excavate any portion of any street, sidewalk, curb or public place,
or to excavate beneath said surface for the construction, alteration or repair
of any driveway, sewer, sidewalk, or water line or other buried facility, or
for the installation of any such work, shall obtain a right-of-way permit from
the city and post a bond pursuant to the terms herein, prior to beginning any
such work.
   (C)   All excavators shall provide the following information before the city
will issue a right-of-way permit:
      (1)   Proof of registration with the State of Indiana to do business in
Indiana (if applicable);
      (2)   Proof of insurance;
      (3)   Proof of IURC Pipeline Safety Division training or 811 excavation
training for the excavator, and its executives, managers, and crews;
      (4)   Internal safety plan; and
      (5)   The communication service provider, broadband provider, public
utility or private utility for whom excavator is performing the excavation.
   (D)   Applicants must pay a right-of-way permit fee in the amount of $50 to
the Engineering Department prior to the issuance of said permit.
   (E)   A right-of-way permit covers only a single excavation.
   (F)   The city reserves the right to actively monitor and inspect excavation
activities covered by the right-of-way permit. Such inspection may include, but
is not limited to: spot inspections, regular documentation review, random
verification with vacuum excavation of projects, and all such other
investigations as are appropriate for the excavation.
(Ord. 041890, passed 4-18-90; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 112-17-14; Am. Ord.
052118D, passed 6-18-18; Am. Ord. 091619, passed 9-16-19)
§ 94.11 CERTAIN THOROUGHFARES NOT TO BE OPEN CUT.
   Open cut permits are required for an open cut on any street within the City
of Fishers. The Allisonville Road, 96th Street, 116th Street, 126th Street and
136th Street thoroughfares within the corporate limits of the city shall not be
open cut unless specifically authorized by the Public Works and Safety Board.
All other streets shall not be open cut if the pavement is less than three
years old or unless specifically authorized by the Public Works and Safety
Board.
(Ord. 041890, passed 4-18-90; Am. Ord. 031907A, passed 3-19-07; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17- 14; Am. Ord. 052118D, passed 6-18-18; Am. Ord. 091619,
passed 9-16-19)
§ 94.12 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Any excavator performing any work as described in this chapter and pursuant
to a right-of-way permit from the city shall also agree to indemnify the city
and any other party interested in such work or its performance against all
claims, demands, actions, judgments, losses and expenses which may arise from
any injuries to person or persons or damage to any property resulting from such
work, or from any conditions created by such work on the property, in the
street, easement, public place, or right-of-way.
(Ord. 041890, passed 4-18-90; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
052118D, passed 6-18-18; Am. Ord. 091619, passed 9-16-19)
§ 94.13 BONDS REQUIRED OF PERMIT APPLICANTS.
   The following shall be required of each applicant for a permit:
   (A)   Performance bond. 
      (1)   Every excavator shall post a performance bond with the director of
engineering and the bond shall remain with the city until the completion and
acceptance of the work performed and the posting of a maintenance bond as
hereafter set out.
      (2)   A minimum performance bond shall be posted in an amount not less
than $2,000. In the event that an excavation is within five feet of the
pavement and/or runs lengthwise on such street, the applicant shall be required
to post a performance bond on the basis of $10 per square foot of pavement cut
or $5 per foot if outside of the actual pavement; provided, however, the
performance bond shall be in an amount not less than $2,000. A blanket bond in
the amount of $25,000 may be accepted at the discretion of the Director of
Engineering.
      (3)   The performance bond shall be cancelled only after the completion
of the work, inspection and approval by the Director of Public Works or
Director of Engineering, or their designee, and the posting of a maintenance
bond in the amount hereafter set out. Such approval shall be based on completed
satisfactory restoration. In the event that the property has not been restored
to a condition as good or better than it had existed prior to the beginning of
the work, the city may call upon the surety company to perform such work or may
perform the work itself and invoice the excavator for the restoration.
   (B)   Maintenance bond. A maintenance bond required under this chapter shall
be in the amount of $2,000 plus 10% of the construction costs itemized in the
permit, to the extent construction costs exceed $2,000. Excavator shall notify
the City Department of Engineering when the work is complete and post a
maintenance bond; said maintenance bond shall be for a period of three years
from the date of posting. Three years after the date of posting, said
maintenance bond shall be cancelled.
(Ord. 041890, passed 4-18-90; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
052118D, passed 6-18-18; Am. Ord. 091619, passed 9-16-19) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 PERMIT AND BOND REQUIRED OF UTILITIES.
   All excavators, including communication service providers, public utilities
and private utilities shall be required to have a right-of-way permit and post
a performance and a maintenance bond.
(Ord. 041890, passed 4-18-90; Am. Ord. 052118D, passed 6-18-18; Am. Ord.
091619, passed 9-16-19)
§ 94.15 UPON VIOLATION DOUBLE APPLICATION FEE CHARGED; OTHER REMEDIES.
   Any person or firm who commences any of the work prior to the time
application for a right-of-way permit is made shall be charged an application
fee double that which would otherwise be required. Should any person or firm
cut a pavement without a right-of-way permit, they shall be subject to the
penalties provided in §
94.99. This provision is without prejudice to the right of the city to seek any
other available remedy for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 041890, passed 4-18-90; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
052118D, passed 6-18-18; Am. Ord. 091619, passed 9-16-19)
§ 94.16 UNACCEPTABLE SURETIES AND CONTRACTORS.
   Any surety company that, when called for performance on the bond does not
perform, shall be placed on a list of unacceptable sureties and will not be
accepted for bonds for a period of three years. Furthermore, any person or firm
with three calls on their bonds in a period of two years shall be placed on a
list of unacceptable excavators and shall not be granted a right-of-way permit
for a period of three years.
(Ord. 041890, passed 4-18-90; Am. Ord. 052118D, passed 6-18-18; Am. Ord.
091619, passed 9-16-19)
§ 94.17 UNDERGROUND UTILITY HITS.
   (A)   Excavators shall comply with I.C. § 8-1-26, et seq.
   (B)   Excavators shall contact known underground utilities in advance of
excavations so that both excavator and the utility operator know in advance of
the location of the excavation to ensure adequate location resources are made
available.
   (C)   All underground utility locates must be examined and crossings
confirmed (pursuant to I.C. 8-1-26), via hand digging or hydro vacuum
excavation. Excavators shall expose underground utility facilities with hand
digging, vacuum excavation, or similar means, depending on the best conditions
for the site. Hydrovacuum is strongly advised and preferred for gas, water and
sewer facilities.
   (D)   If an excavator has three hits to an underground utility line in one
month period or two underground utility line hits in one week, the city may, in
its sole discretion, require the excavator to utilize hydro vacuum excavation
for gas, water and sewer utilities for any right-of-way permit that excavator
has in place or for which excavator subsequently applies within the city.
   (E)   If an underground facility hit occurs, excavator will ensure that 911,
811, the underground utility and the City Engineering Department are notified.
   (F)   If excavator is found at fault by the Indiana Underground Plant
Protection Advisory Committee or other state or federal administrative body for
an underground utility line hit, the excavator shall be responsible for
reimbursement of costs incurred by city due to the hit, including but not
limited to inspection fees and emergency response personnel costs.
   (G)   In the event that excavator has three hits to underground utility
lines in a one month period or two underground utility line hits in one week,
the city may, in its discretion, impose a temporary or permanent stop work
order against the excavator and impose a $250 fine. This provision does not
prevent City from seeking other available remedies.
   (H)   In the event the city has exercised its powers under division (G) by
issuing a temporary or permanent stop work on more than one excavator
performing work for the same communications service provider, broadband
provider, public utility or private utility within a 30 day period, the city
may additionally, in its discretion, impose a temporary or permanent stop work
order against the communications service provider, broadband provider, public
utility or private utility directing the excavation work to be performed. This
provision does not prevent city from seeking other available remedies.
(Ord. 052118D, passed 6-18-18; Am. Ord. 091619, passed 9-16-19)
§ 94.18 OTHER EXCAVATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   On site personnel. Excavator shall have an employee and/or inspector
(s) readily available at each excavation site that can effectively communicate
with property owners, residents and city staff about excavator's excavation,
construction and restoration activities.
   (B)   Restoration and complaints. 
      (1)   Within a reasonable amount of time, any property disturbed during
the excavation shall be restored in as good or better condition than was its
condition prior to the beginning of the excavation and in compliance with city
standards.
      (2)   Borings shall be restored within three business days of the boring
and shall be subject to an inspection by the city. Excavator shall give
consideration to the amount of restoration needed with each boring and the
boring shall be conducted in a manner which requires the least amount of
restoration (i.e. using streets and sidewalks for equipment rather than lawns,
etc.). Directly after any boring under any street, curb, or sidewalks,
excavator shall inspect for any heaving that may have occurred from the boring
process, advise the city of the damage and put on a high priority list to
repair.
   (C)   Handholes, pedestals and flower pots. Handholes, pedestals, and flower
pots shall be installed at grade (as applicable), level, and square with
sidewalks, curbs, drives, and streets.
   (D)   Notification to property owners.
      (1)   Within a subdivision. 
         (a)   If excavator will be excavating within a subdivision, excavator
shall notify each property owner that it will be entering the property no more
than 30 days prior to entering the property for any excavation. Notice shall be
sent via letters and yard darts stating at a minimum that:
            1.   Excavator will be on their property;
            2.   Dates of excavation;
            3.   What work will be completed on their property; and
            4.   Contact information for excavator.
         (b)   At the city's sole discretion, excavator may also be required to
notify the homeowners' association (if one exists) of its presence within the
neighborhood no more than 30 days prior to entering the neighborhood for any
excavation. With the permission of the homeowners' association, excavator shall
place signs at the entrances of neighborhoods stating that excavator will be
doing work in the neighborhood. Proof of notifications shall be provided to the
city upon request of the city.
      (2)   Outside a subdivision. If excavator will be entering onto property
or excavating outside of a subdivision, excavator shall notify the adjacent
property owner no more than 30 days prior to entering the property that:
         (a)   Excavator and/or its contractor will be in their area and on
their property;
         (b)   Dates of excavation;
         (c)   What work will be completed on their property; and
         (d)   Contact information for excavator.
(Ord. 091619, passed 9-16-19)
DRIVEWAYS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 94.20 WRITTEN APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No driveway shall be constructed and used from or into any street, alley or
thoroughfare of the city without the written approval of the city, nor shall
any person, firm or corporation cut or substantially alter the physical
characteristics of an existing sidewalk in the city without the written
approval of the city.
(Ord. 4-7-75-A, passed 4-7-75; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see
§
94.99
§ 94.21 APPLICATION TO TOWN; FEE.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to cut, replace or substantially
alter an existing sidewalk or to construct and use a driveway from or into a
street, alley or thoroughfare of the city shall make written application to the
city for its approval. Such application shall include a scaled diagram of the
proposed driveway, cut or alteration and its relation to surrounding property,
including but not limited to streets, alleys, thoroughfares, and sidewalks and
a statement describing the planned use of such driveway, cut or alteration. The
application shall be filed with the Director of Community Development or his or
her designee at least ten days prior to the regularly scheduled meeting of the
Public Works and Safety Board, and shall be accompanied by an application fee
of $5.
(Ord. 4-7-75-A, passed 4-7-75; Am. Ord. 060412, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.22 GRANTING OR DENYING APPLICATION.
   (A)   With respect to an application made under this chapter the Director of
Community Development or his or her designee may grant the application if the
proposed driveway, cut or alteration, when constructed or performed, will
conform to all specifications adopted by the city and will not:
      (1)   Constitute a risk of injury to persons or property;
      (2)   Impair or impede the proper and efficient maintenance of streets,
alleys, thoroughfares or property of the city;
      (3)   Impair or impede the natural normal or existing flow of surface
water; or
      (4)   Impair or impede the orderly and safe movement of traffic,
vehicular and pedestrian, on and over surrounding streets, alleys,
thoroughfares and sidewalks.
   (B)   In the alternative, the Director of Community Development or his or
her designee may bring the application before the Public Works and Safety Board
at its next regularly scheduled meeting. With respect to any application
referred to it, the Board may deny the application if the proposed driveway,
cut or alteration will:
      (1)   Constitute a risk of injury to persons or property;
      (2)   Impair or impede the maintenance of streets, alleys, thoroughfares
or property of the city;
      (3)   Impede or impair the natural, normal or existing flow of surface
water; or
      (4)   Impair or impede the orderly and safe movement of traffic,
vehicular and pedestrian, on and over surrounding streets, alleys,
thoroughfares and sidewalks.
   (C)   The Board may grant the application on condition that the driveway,
cut or alteration will, as and when constructed or performed, conform to all
specifications now or hereafter adopted by the city for the construction of
driveways, streets, alleys, thoroughfares and sidewalks.
   (D)   The Board may grant the application on the condition specified in
division (A)(2) hereof and on the further condition that a cash or surety bond
in an amount equal to the cost of the proposed driveway, cut or alteration be
filed with the city, to remain in effect for three years or such other time
determined by the Board to be reasonable under the circumstances.
(Ord. 4-7-75-A, passed 4-7-75; Am. Ord. 060412, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 94.23 ISSUANCE OF DRIVEWAY-SIDEWALK PERMIT.
   The written approval of the city required by this chapter shall be in the
form of a Driveway-Sidewalk Permit and shall be designed by the Director of
Community Development or his or her designee, or the Public Works and Safety
Board.
(Ord. 4-7-75-A, passed 4-7-75; Am. Ord. 060412, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
2014 S-58
§ 94.24 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES WITHOUT WRITTEN APPROVAL.
   An emergency exists with respect to the subject matter of this chapter and
this chapter shall become effective on and after the date of its passage.
(Ord. 4-7-75-A, passed 4-7-75)
§ 94.25 PUBLIC NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   Any person, firm or corporation who constructs and uses any driveway or who
cuts or substantially alters the physical characteristics of any sidewalk or
allows the same to be done on his behalf after the effective date of this
chapter without the written approval of the town shall be liable to the city
for damages in an amount equal to two times the cost of correcting or restoring
the alley, street, thoroughfare or sidewalk to its original condition.
(Ord. 4-7-75-A, passed 4-7-75; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 94.26 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   The maintenance and routine repair of sidewalks located within the rights-
of-way of the city shall be that of the adjacent property owners. For purposes
of this section, maintenance and repair shall include but not be limited to
snow and ice removal and repair of cracks and/or holes or any other condition
which would constitute a safety hazard to pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 101895, passed 12-6-95; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any excavator who violates any provision of this chapter for which
another penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding $2,000, nor less than $200, per offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
This provision does not prohibit the city from seeking other available
remedies.
   (B)   The city may revoke the right-of-way permit and/or may issue one or
more temporary or permanent stop work orders against the excavator and/or the
communications service provider, broadband provider, public utility or private
utility for which excavator is performing the excavation, at city's discretion,
for violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (C)   The city's Director of Engineering, or their designee, shall have
authority to enforce all provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The penalties provided for in this chapter are separate and distinct
from any penalties assessed to the excavator under I.C. 8-1-26.
(Ord. 041890, passed 4-18-90; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
052118D, passed 6-18-18; Am. Ord. 091619, passed 9-16-19)
CHAPTER 95: TREES AND SHRUBS; WEEDS
Section
Trees and Shrubs
   
95.01   Planting of trees and shrubs
   
95.02   Duty of property owners
   
95.03   Obstruction of visibility
   
95.04   Damage to street or sidewalk
   
95.05   Access to affected area
   
95.06   Nonliability of city or public utility
Unsafe Trees
   
95.10   Definitions
   
95.11   Responsibility of property owners
   
95.12   Violation
   
95.13   Right to enter
   
95.14   Notice
   
95.15   Tax lien
   
95.16   Emergency action
   
95.17   Interference prohibited
Weeds and Rank Vegetation
   
95.20   Definitions
   
95.21   Duty of property owner
   
95.22   Failure to cut; notice; continuous abatement
   
95.23   Removal by city; payment of cost
   
95.24   Tax lien
   
95.25   Emergency removal
Urban Forestry Program
   
95.30   Definitions
   
95.31   Interference with the Tree Board
   
95.32   Tree selection
   
95.33   Permits
   
95.34   Installation and removal
   
95.35   Routine tree care
 
   
95.99   Penalty
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 95.01 PLANTING OF TREES AND SHRUBS.
   Within the city, no person shall plant trees or shrubs between the street
and the sidewalk and/or property line except that the owner or person in
control of the dominant real estate may plant trees or shrubs between the
street and the sidewalk and/or right-of-way of easement line after obtaining a
permit from the Tree Board or its designee.
(Ord. 7-2-79, passed 7-2-79; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The owner or person in control of the dominant real estate adjacent to the
area between the street and the sidewalks and/or right-of-way easement line on
which any tree or shrub is planted pursuant to §
95.01 above shall be responsible for the maintenance and removal of the tree or
shrub if such removal is necessary. If after notice from the city, said owner
or person in control fails to remove a dead tree or shrub or any dead or
dangerous limbs or branches thereon, the city may remove said shrub or limbs
and collect the costs thereof from the owner.
(Ord. 7-2-79, passed 7-2-79; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 95.03 OBSTRUCTION OF VISIBILITY.
   If any tree or shrub planted pursuant to §
95.01 above shall, in the opinion of the Public Works and Safety Board, create
a hazardous obstruction to vision which may endanger vehicular or pedestrian
traffic, then said tree or shrub shall be appropriately trimmed or removed
pursuant to the procedure as described in §
95.02 above.
(Ord. 7-2-79, passed 7-2-79; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 DAMAGE TO STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   If any tree or shrub planted pursuant to §
95.01 above shall cause damage to any street, curb or sidewalk, then said tree
or shrub causing such damage shall be removed and the damage repaired by the
dominant land owner or person in control as set forth in §
95.02 above.
(Ord. 7-2-79, passed 7-2-79)
§ 95.05 ACCESS TO AFFECTED AREA.
   The city and all public utilities retain their ownership and right to access
to the area between the street and the right-of-way easement line of the
dominant owner and retain the right to reasonably remove any tree or shrub
impeding necessary work to be performed by the city and/or all public
utilities, or other properly authorized users.
(Ord. 7-2-79, passed 7-2-79; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 95.06 NONLIABILITY OF CITY OR PUBLIC UTILITY.
   Neither the city nor any public utility or other properly authorized user of
the city’s property located between the street and the sidewalk and/or right-
of-way easement line shall be liable to the owner of the dominant real estate
for any damages done to trees or shrubs, located upon city property between the
street and the sidewalk and/or right-of-way easement line as a result of the
actions of the city or any public utility or other authorized user or their
agents or employees in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 7-2-79, passed 7-2-79; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
UNSAFE TREES
§ 95.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Property owned by property owners within the city
boundaries of the City of Fishers.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person, firm or corporation whose name appears on the
current tax duplicate in the office of the Auditor of Hamilton County, as the
owner of such real estate.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property owned or controlled by the City of Fishers.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street,
alley, boulevard, road, or trail that is owned by the City of Fishers or
another public agency.
   SIDEWALK. Any sidewalk within the city boundaries of the City of Fishers,
notwithstanding whether the sidewalk is maintained by the City of Fishers.
   TREE. A perennial woody plant with one main stem or, in clump form, up to
three main stems, which develops many branches and ordinarily grows to a height
of 20 feet or more.
   UNSAFE TREE. Any tree or part thereof that is dead, diseased, harbors
insects or disease or constitutes a hazard to life or property.
(Ord. 120511, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 95.11 RESPONSIBILITY OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   Property owners are ultimately responsible for the trimming, pruning and
removal of trees that extend onto a public right-of-way, sidewalk or public
property and unsafe trees that may fall into or encroach upon a public right-
of-way, sidewalk or public property.
(Ord. 120511, passed 1-3-12)
§ 95.12 VIOLATION.
   It is a violation of this subchapter for property owners to allow unsafe
trees located on private property to extend into, onto or over a public right-
of-way, sidewalk or public property or fail to remove unsafe tress that may
fall into or encroach upon a public right-of-way, sidewalk or public property.
(Ord. 120511, passed 1-3-12)
§ 95.13 RIGHT TO ENTER.
   The city, its representatives, agents or contractors shall have the right to
enter onto private property to trim, prune or cause the removal of any unsafe
tree or part thereof that is maintained in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 120511, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 95.14 NOTICE.
   The city shall notify property owners in violation of this subchapter in
writing of such violation ("notice") via certified mail. The notice shall state
the violation, whether the property owner must prune, trim or remove the unsafe
tree (“required action”) and that the property owner has five days from the
date of the notice to perform the required action or request an extension of
time to perform the required action from the Town Building Commissioner.
   (A)   If an extension of time is not requested, after five days, the Fishers
Department of Permitting and Inspection (“Department”) will perform a site
inspection. If the property owner has performed the required action, the
Department will document via photography that the property owner has come into
compliance, and the violation is closed. If the property owner fails to abate
the violation, the Department will document the violation via photography and
perform the required action. The Department shall maintain before and after
photographs.
   (B)   Within ten days of performing the required action, the Department
shall mail, via certified mail, return receipt requested, an invoice to the
property owner reflecting the total cost incurred by the city in performing the
required action, administrative costs associated with enforcing this subchapter
and a penalty amount of $250 for violating the subchapter (“invoice”). Within
ten days of the date the invoice is mailed, the property owner shall:
      (1)   Pay to the Department all amounts owed as reflected in the invoice;
or
      (2)   File a written appeal with the City Court setting forth the address
of the property; the name of the property owner; the basis for the appeal and
any documentation supporting the appeal. Upon appeal, the City Court shall
determine whether the property owner is liable for the violation or the invoice
amount. If liable, the property owner shall have ten days from the date that
the determination is rendered to pay to the City Court the invoice amount and
all applicable court costs.
(Ord. 120511, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 95.15 TAX LIEN.
   If the property owner fails to pay the invoice or file a written appeal
within ten days or fails to pay the invoice within ten days of an adverse
determination rendered by the City Court, the Department shall certify to the
Hamilton County Auditor the amount incurred by the city to abate the violation,
including the administrative costs associated with abating the violation
(“certified amount”). The Auditor shall place the certified amount on the tax
duplicate against such real estate and the amount shall be collected as taxes
are generally collected and when collected shall be disbursed to the city for
deposit in the General Fund.
(Ord. 120511, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 95.16 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   The city shall cause any tree that obstructs the view of traffic control
devices or traffic on a street within the city, wherever located, to be trimmed
or removed as soon as possible. The city, its representatives, agents or
contractors shall be immediately permitted onto a property owner’s property to
trim or remove such a tree, and the city is not required to provide notice as
described in §
95.14 above.
(Ord. 120511, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 95.17 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall interfere with the city or persons
acting under its authority, while engaged in pruning, trimming or removing any
tree that extends onto or over a public right-of-way, sidewalk or public
property. Any person so interfering shall be subject to a penalty in the amount
of $250.
(Ord. 120511, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
WEEDS AND RANK VEGETATION
§ 95.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Fishers Department of Permitting and Inspection which
Department shall be responsible for the administration of this subchapter and
shall perform or cause to be performed the actions described herein.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person, firm or corporation whose name appears on the
current tax duplicate in the office of the Auditor of Hamilton County, as the
owner of such real estate.
   WEEDS OR OTHER RANK VEGETATION.
      (1)   Includes the following:
         (a)   All plants set forth in IC 15-16-7-2 or plants that are
poisonous or detrimental to human health or have been determined to be noxious
by the Indiana legislature or by rule of the Indiana Department of Natural
Resources or Indiana Department of Agriculture; and
         (b)   Grass in excess of eight inches tall.
      (2)   WEEDS OR OTHER RANK VEGETATION does not include:
         (a)   Wetlands;
         (b)   Woods;
         (c)   Nature preserves;
         (d)   Undeveloped areas;
         (e)   Storm water best management practice areas;
         (f)   Agricultural crops such as hay and pasture; or
         (g)   Grasses or landscape intended to provide a teeing ground,
fairway, rough, controlled and maintained heather, hazard or putting area for a
golf course that is in operation.
(Ord. 120511A, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 031819, passed 5-20-19)
§ 95.21 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of any owner of real estate within the geographical
limits of the city to cut and remove all weeds and rank vegetation growing upon
such real estate when such weeds and rank vegetation exceed a height of eight
inches, as measured from the ground, including but not limited to that portion
of such real estate as is adjacent to or abutting upon any sidewalk, alley or
street.
(Ord. 120511A, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 95.22 FAILURE TO CUT; NOTICE; CONTINUOUS ABATEMENT.
   (A)   In the event any owner of real estate located within the geographical
limits of the city fails to perform the duties set forth herein, the Department
shall prepare and forward to the property owner a written notice calling for
the cutting and removal of such weeds and rank vegetation within seven days of
the date of the notice (“notice of violation”). The notice of violation shall
be served upon the property owner by first class mail or an equivalent service
permitted under IC 1-1-7-1, return receipt requested at the last known address
as recorded in the Hamilton County Auditor’s office.
   (B)   If an initial notice of violation was provided by certified mail,
first class mail, or equivalent service permitted under IC 1-1-7-1, a
continuous abatement notice may be posted at the property at the time of
abatement. A continuous abatement notice serves as notice to the real property
owner that each subsequent violation during the same year for which the initial
notice of the violation was provided may be abated by the city or its
contractors.
   (C)   Any notice of violation issued pursuant to this chapter may be
appealed if written notice of appeal is served by the property owner to the
City Court within three days of the date of notice of violation. Upon appeal,
the City Court shall set the matter for contested hearing and determine whether
the property owner was in violation of this chapter and, if appropriate, assess
fines pursuant to § 95.23(B). The timely appeal of a notice of violation shall
toll the abatement period pending the issuance of a decision thereon by the
City Court Judge.
(Ord. 120511A, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 091613, passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17- 14; Am. Ord. 032017A, passed 3-20-17)
§ 95.23 REMOVAL BY CITY; PAYMENT OF COST.
   (A)   From the date the notice of violation is mailed or delivered, the
property owner has seven days to abate the violation. After seven days and if
no timely appeal is filed, the Department will perform a site inspection. If
the property owner has abated the violation (mowed the property), the
Department will note in its file that the property owner has come into
compliance, and the violation is closed. If the property owner fails to abate
the violation then the property owner shall be deemed to have granted
permission to the city to enter the property owner’s property for the purpose
of cutting and/or removing weeds and rank vegetation located thereon and
identified in the notice of violation. The Department or its designee will
document the violation via photography that captures the height of the grass
and the property address, and immediately mow the property. The Department
shall maintain before and after photographs.
   (B)   If the property owner fails to abate the violation within the seven
day period referenced in division (A) above, the property owner shall be liable
for a fine up to $1,000 subject to the following:
      (1)   If the property owner has not previously violated this section, the
fine shall be at least $250;
      (2)   If the property owner has previously committed one violation of
this section, the fine shall be at least $500; and
      (3)   If the property owner has previously committed two or more
violations of this section, the fine shall be at least $750.
   (C)   The Department shall mail, via first class mail, an invoice to the
property owner reflecting the total cost incurred by the city in mowing the
property, administrative costs associated with abating the violation, and a
citation for the appropriate minimum fine as outlined in division (B).
   (D)   Within ten days of the date the invoice in division (C) is mailed, the
property owner shall:
      (1)   Pay to the Department all amounts owed as reflected in the invoice;
or
      (2)   File a written appeal with the City Court setting forth the address
of the property; the name of the property owner; the basis for the appeal and
any documentation supporting the appeal. Basis for appeal may be: (1) cut and
removal of weeds and rank vegetation was not performed on the property; (2) cut
and removal of weeds and rank vegetation was performed before the time period
set forth in the notice of violation; (3) amount of invoice is incorrect; or
(4) the property owner was not properly served legal notice. Upon appeal, the
City Court shall set the matter for contested hearing and determine whether the
property owner is liable for the violation and, if appropriate, assess fines.
In any proceeding before the City Court regarding the violation, the city shall
be entitled to recover reasonable attorney fees and costs if it is the
prevailing party.
(Ord. 120511A, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 031813A, passed 5-13-13; Am. Ord.
091613, passed 9-16-13; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032017A,
passed 3-20-17)
§ 95.24 TAX LIEN.
   If the property owner fails to pay the invoice or file a written appeal
within ten days or fails to pay the invoice within ten days of an adverse
determination rendered by the City Court, the Department shall certify to the
Hamilton County Auditor the amount incurred by the city to abate the violation,
including the administrative costs associated with abating the violation
(“certified amount”). If the cost of abatement is $0-$100, the administrative
fees shall be $100. If the cost of abatement is $101-$200, the administrative
fees shall be $200. If the cost of abatement exceeds $200, the administrative
fee shall be $300. The limitation on administrative fees shall not limit
whatever might be necessary in costs to collect the outstanding balances,
including court costs and attorney fees. The Auditor shall place the certified
amount on the tax duplicate against such real estate and the amount shall be
collected as taxes are generally collected and when collected shall be
disbursed to the city for deposit in the General Fund.
(Ord. 120511A, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
032017A, passed 3-20-17)
§ 95.25 EMERGENCY REMOVAL.
   In the event a property owner has failed to perform his or her duty to cut
and remove weeds and rank vegetation as provided herein and such weeds and rank
vegetation obstructs, either in whole or in part, the normal and usual view of
any street or vehicular traffic thereon, from an intersecting street, alley or
drive, such weeds, grass or other rank or useless vegetation may be declared to
be a public nuisance by the City Council and may be cut and removed by the city
immediately and without the necessity of the five day written notice. The cost
of such cutting and removal and the penalty shall be assessed and sought as a
judgment against the property owner in the City Court.
(Ord. 120511A, passed 1-3-12 ; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
URBAN FORESTRY PROGRAM
§ 95.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   SHALL.  Is always mandatory.
   STREET TREES. Trees planted on real estate owned or controlled by the city,
and trees planted within a dedicated landscape easement.
   TOPPING. The cutting back of the leading shoot or shoots of major limbs
which for the natural canopy of the tree so as to disfigure and/or damage the
tree’s crown.
   TREE. A perennial plant having a woody supporting main stem or trunk,
ordinarily growing to heights greater than ten feet.
   TREE CARE. The treating, spraying, removal, pruning, and any other tree
maintenance or horticulture work intended for the enhancement or preservation
of trees and the removal and prevention of any and all damages to any street
trees caused by pests, blight, disease and mechanical injury.
(Ord. 012208C, passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 95.31 INTERFERENCE WITH THE TREE BOARD.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Tree Board or its designee to enforce
these regulations.
   (B)   No person shall hinder, prevent, or interfere with agents or
representatives of the Tree Board while such persons are carrying out the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 012208C, passed 1-22-08)
§ 95.32 TREE SELECTION.
   (A)   The Tree Board, in conjunction with development staff, shall provide a
list of desirable and undesirable tree, shrub and groundcover species for
planting in public spaces. This list should include plant characteristics such
as mature height and spread, bloom/foliage color, and various horticultural
information along with recommended spacing, and may from time to time be
updated as deemed necessary by the Tree Board.
   (B)   No species other than those included on the Tree Board’s list of
desirable trees may be planted as street trees without special permission of
the Board or its designee. If special permission has not been granted, the cost
of removal and replacement of the undesirable tree(s) shall be charged to the
individual or firm who planted the tree(s).
   (C)   The minimum size for small trees at installation is one and one-half
inches in diameter (measured six inches from the ground), and for medium or
large trees is two inches in diameter (measured six inches from the ground).
   (D)   The minimum width for a street tree planting bed is five feet, with
eight feet being preferred.
(Ord. 012208C, passed 1-22-08)
§ 95.33 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall plant, treat, spray, or prune a street tree or hire
someone to care for a street tree unless the Tree Board first grants a proper
permit. The permit may be issued to property owners or certified arborists. The
purpose of this permit is to insure the planting of desirable trees and the
proper location and spacing.
   (B)   No person shall remove a street tree unless the Tree Board has issued
the proper permit. Except that, no permit is required in an emergency
situation.
   (C)   Each permit issued shall specify the work to be performed and be valid
for a period not to exceed 60 days from date of issuance. The Tree Board may
extend the work period by 30 days upon written request.
   (D)   An annual permit shall be issued to any public or private utility for
trimming trees within public rights-of-way. The permit shall specify trimming
schedules and procedures and be reviewed annually with the Tree Board.
(Ord. 012208C, passed 1-22-08)
§ 95.34 INSTALLATION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be a violation for any person to plant trees, shrubs, or any
other plan material within any public right-of-way, required landscape
easement, or municipal property until a permit has been obtained from the Tree
Board. The Board is authorized to refuse to grant a permit when the planting is
likely to create a public danger or nuisance or to be detrimental to the growth
of adjacent trees.
   (B)   The Board may prune, remove, or cause to be pruned or removed any
plants that are installed within the public right-of-way, required landscape
easement, or municipal property when it has been determined such pruning or
removal is beneficial to the public health, safety, or welfare, or to adjacent.
   (C)   No trees may be planted under or within 15 horizontal feet of any
overhead utility line, or within five horizontal feet of any underground
utility line.
   (D)   Prior to installation, alteration, or repair of any building or
structure, or any other construction activity, the owner thereof shall take all
necessary steps to prevent injury to any flora growing in any public property
or right-of-way.
   (E)   Any tree removed from the public right-of-way or municipal property
must be cut flush with the ground, unless the stump is removed. No brush, limbs
or other parts of a removed tree shall be allowed to remain on any city street
overnight.
(Ord. 012208C, passed 1-22-08)
§ 95.35 ROUTINE TREE CARE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to routinely inspect, plant, prune,
maintain, and remove trees, plants, and shrubs within the boundaries of
dedicated rights-of-way and other municipal properties as may be necessary to
insure public safety or to preserve and enhance the symmetry and/or beauty of
such public grounds.
   (B)   A utility may remove or cause to be removed any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition, or which by reason of its nature is
immediately injurious to sewers, electric lines, gas lines, water lines, or
other public improvements, which is affected with any injurious fungus, insect
or other pest, or which otherwise poses an identifiable threat to public
safety. Except in emergency situations, communications and electric utilities
shall notify the city before removing any tree.
   (C)   Public utilities may trim or remove trees, tree roots, and tree
branches as necessary for the maintenance of utility service and as is
prescribed by state law and as limited below:
      Unless approved in advance by the Tree Board for good cause shown, it
shall be unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Top trees within a city right-of-way or on other municipal
property;
      (2)   Prune horizontally a branch of more than one-inch in diameter; and/
or
      (3)   Cut limbs within a tree’s canopy back to stubs.
   (D)   Within the limits of this subchapter and the Tree Board’s budget, the
city shall assume the expense of tree care for street trees. All routine care
undertaken by the city shall be initiated by the Tree Board and undertaken by a
certified and/or trained arborist.
   (E)   All property owners should be responsible for having all trees,
shrubs, vines, or other plants growing under or near utility lines on their
property properly trimmed or pruned. The applicable utility shall be contacted
by the property owner prior to any pruning or trimming, so that service may be
shut off as needed.
   (F)   All property owners should be responsible for proper routine care of
street trees in the right-of- way between the road surface and the sidewalk or
remainder of that person’s property. This includes monitoring tree health and
notifying the city when such trees have major maintenance needs.
(Ord. 012208C, passed 1-22-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of any provision of §§
95.01 through
95.06 shall be deemed an infraction and any person violating the provisions
hereof shall be fined an amount not to exceed $10 for such violation.
(Ord. 7-2-79, passed 7-2-79)
   (B)   To the extent unpaid, the property owner shall continue to be liable
for a penalty in the amount of $250 (“penalty”) for violation of §§
95.10 et seq. The Department may seek a judgment in the City Court against the
property owner in the amount of the penalty and court costs.
(Ord. 120511, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
   (C)   To the extent unpaid, the property owner shall continue to be liable
for a penalty in the amount of $250 (“penalty”) for violation of §§
95.20 et seq. The Department may seek a judgment in the City Court against the
property owner in the amount of the penalty and court costs.
(Ord. 120511A, passed 1-3-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Limitation on imposition of impact fee
   
96.02   Establishment of impact zone
   
96.03   Zone improvement plan
   
96.04   Establishment of park and recreational impact fee
   
96.05   Credit in lieu of payment; exemptions
   
96.06   Impact fee due upon issuance of structural building permit
   
96.07   Lien rights established
   
96.08   Form of receipt
   
96.09   Appeals
   
96.10   Establishment of Park and Recreational Fund
   
96.11   Use of impact fees collected
   
96.12   House Enrolled Act No. 1467
   
96.13   Amendments and review
   
96.14   Fees for facilities, programs and activities
   
96.15   Definitions
   
96.16   Park regulations
Athletic Fields
   
96.20   Policies and procedures for use
   
96.21   Affiliates
   
96.22   Non-discrimination/applicable law
   
96.23   Scheduling
   
96.24   Field rental fee
   
96.25   Trespass
   
96.26   Maximum expenditures
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Sales Tax and Damage Deposit Refunds Agency Fund for the Parks and
Recreation Department, see §
34.17
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 LIMITATION ON IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEE.
   This chapter shall expire and become void five years after its effective
date as required by IC 36-7-4-1340, unless action is undertaken to extend its
life consistent with the provisions of said Code section which contemplates a
replacement ordinance.
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92)
§ 96.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPACT ZONE.
   There is hereby established one park and recreational Infrastructure Impact
Zone, the borders of which are co-terminus with the existing corporate borders
of the town, and, as they may be extended from time to time through annexation,
and, over which the town exercises planning and zoning jurisdiction. In this
regard, the Council specifically finds that there is a functional relationship
between the components of the Park and Recreation Master Plan and
Infrastructure Improvement Plan and that such park and recreational plan
provides a reasonably uniform benefit to all of the citizens throughout the
impact zone as of the adoption of this chapter. The Council further finds that
all areas within the impact zone are contiguous as required in IC 36-7-4-1316.
Except as provided below, this chapter shall apply uniformly to all residential
developments within the impact zone hereby established for which the town may
require a structural building permit and which creates a need for new and
additional park and recreational infrastructure. This chapter shall not apply
to:
   (A)   Developments meeting the requirements set forth in IC 36-7-4-1322(g);
   (B)   Improvements which do not require a structural building permit;
   (C)   Improvements which do not create a need for new and additional
infrastructure, including the erection of a sign, construction of accessory
buildings, structures or fences or the alteration, renovation or expansion of
an improvement where the use, or intensity thereof, has not changed;
   (D)   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed improvement,
provided that the replacement improvement does not create a need for new and
additional infrastructure over and above the infrastructure needed by the
original improvement prior to the destruction or partial destruction thereof.
   (E)   Non-residential development.
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92)
§ 96.03 ZONE IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   In accordance with the city’s Comprehensive Plan, and as a
precondition to the amendment of this subchapter, the city undertook a
comprehensive and detailed park and recreational impact analysis performed by
Baker Tilly Municipal Advisors, LLC (the “study”). The study constitutes a zone
improvement plan pursuant to IC 36-7-4-1300 et seq. The city hereby adopts the
study as its zone improvement plan and finds that the study contains the
following elements:
      (1)   Reasonable estimates relating to the nature and location of
development that is expected within the impact zone during the planning period,
which, for the purposes of this subchapter is defined to be a period of five
years commencing with the date of adoption hereof;
      (2)   A reasonable determination of the community level of service for
the impact zone;
      (3)   A reasonable determination of the current level of service provided
within the impact zone;
      (4)   A reasonable estimate of the nature, location, sequencing, and
timing of the park and recreational requirements and costs necessary to provide
the community level of service for the developments contemplated in division
(A)(1) above;
      (5)   A reasonable estimate of the share of the park and recreational
costs identified in division (A)(4) above that will be used to:
         (a)   Raise the current level of service for existing development or
provide service to existing development; or
         (b)   Provide service to new development;
      (6)   A reasonable estimate of revenues that:
         (a)   Are from sources other than impact fees; and
         (b)   Will be used to finance the cost identified in division (A)(5)
(a) above;
      (7)   A description of the nature and location of existing infrastructure
in the impact zone; and
      (8)   A general description of the sources and amounts of money used to
pay for infrastructure during the previous five years.
   (B)   Additionally, the City Council hereby specifically adopts the Zone
Improvement Plan as an official part of the city’s Comprehensive Plan, pursuant
to IC 36-7-4-500 et. seq. and 36-7-4-1318. A copy of the study is available for
inspection at Fishers City Hall.
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92; Am. Ord. 081621A, passed 10-11-21)
§ 96.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF PARK AND RECREATIONAL IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   Based upon the Parks and Recreation Master Plan and Infrastructure
Improvement Plan (as further described in the city’s Comprehensive Plan), the
City Council determined that the cost per single-family dwelling unit is $3,513
and the cost of any multi-family dwelling is $2,108. The City Council hereby
incorporates all of the data collected, the calculations made, and the
conclusions reached by Baker Tilly Municipal Advisors, LLC, when developing the
Zone Improvement Plan and directs city employees to make such data and other
information available for review during regular business hours.
   (B)   If any parcel of real estate considered in the creation of the Zone
Improvement Plan undergoes a change in use, redevelopment, or a modification
that requires a structural building permit and creates a need for new
infrastructure, an impact fee shall only be assessed for the increase in the
burden or infrastructure.
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92; Am. Ord. 020796E, passed 2-21-96; Am. Ord.
010702B, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 112105D, passed 1-16-06; Am. Ord. 041816E,
passed 5-16-16; Am. Ord. 081621A, passed 10-11-21)
§ 96.05 CREDIT IN LIEU OF PAYMENT; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person or entity obligated to pay a fee pursuant to the terms of
this chapter may have the option of financing, constructing and dedicating park
and recreational infrastructure in the form of block parks owned and operated
by a neighborhood association for the public benefit, all as described and
defined in the park and recreation improvement plan, instead of making all or
part of any impact fee payment which may be due, so long as such financing,
construction and dedication are accomplished pursuant to the park and
recreational improvement plan of the city, and in accordance with the park and
recreational specifications for such park and recreational infrastructure to be
improved in force within the city’s jurisdiction at the time. Such fee payer,
or other person or entity providing the infrastructure or improvement, shall be
given credit for the actual costs of planning, financing, constructing such
park and recreational improvements to the city. Such request for credit shall
be presented prior to the issuance of the improvement location permit. In the
event the actual cost of such planning, financing, and construction do not
equal the amount of the impact fee due pursuant to the calculation provided for
in the schedule set forth in §
96.04, the remaining balance shall be due in accordance with the provisions
stated hereafter.
   (B)   Credits against impact fees otherwise due shall be allowed pursuant to
this section for all infrastructure and improvements constructed or furnished
in accordance with IC 36-7-4-1313 and IC 36-7-4-1335 since January 1, 1989. In
addition, a fee payer or other person or entity responsible for installing
infrastructure or improvements may designate in writing a method of allocating
its credits to future fee payers who may be successors in interest to the
credits earned by the fee payer or others, as part of the certification
provided for above. Any person or entity otherwise obligated to pay the fee
established by this chapter whose property was totally or partially destroyed
by fire, storm or other casualty beyond their control, shall be exempt from
said fee if they repair or replace the destroyed structure without creating a
burden on infrastructure greater than the burden imposed by the destroyed
structure. In the event of such additional burden, the fee shall be calculated
based only on the increased burden created by the structure.
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 96.06 IMPACT FEE DUE UPON ISSUANCE OF STRUCTURAL BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   The impact fee imposed pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall be
due and payable upon the issuance of a structural building permit by the city.
In this regard, it is understood that the structural building permit is
synonymous with the term “structural building permit” as that term is used in
IC 36-7-4-1323, in that the issuance of a structural building permit authorizes
the applicant to commence construction activities, structural and otherwise.
The entire fee which is calculated pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall
be due at said time unless the amount of the fee upon calculation is greater
than $5,000, in which case an installment plan may be requested by the
applicant in accordance with the terms set forth in IC 36-7-4-1324 (a), (b),
(c), and (d). The Fishers Impact Fee Review Board shall establish specific
rules consistent with said code provisions for installment payments. The
interest rate on any installment plan or deferred payment shall be the pre-
judgment rate of interest set forth in the Indiana Code as from time to time
amended.
   (B)   If a fee payer requests, the amount of the impact fee shall be
assessed upon the voluntary submission of a development plan or upon the
issuance of the improvement location permit, whichever is earlier. For purposes
of this section, “assessment” means the act of calculating the amount of the
impact fee which shall be due. The city shall make such assessment within 30
days of the date of such voluntary request or at the issuance of the
improvement location permit with or without a request.
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 96.07 LIEN RIGHTS ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-1325, the City of Fishers acquires a lien against the
real estate which is the subject of the impact fee. Upon adoption, this chapter
shall be recorded, and, thereafter, it shall constitute constructive notice of
the lien rights of the city. The city may, in its discretion, file a specific
instrument setting forth its lien rights with respect to a parcel of real
estate which is the subject of an installment payment of an impact fee, and
such instrument shall constitute actual notice in addition to the constructive
notice provided for by the recording of this chapter.
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 96.08 FORM OF RECEIPT.
   The Controller shall issue a receipt for any and all impact fees collected,
and the form of such receipt shall be as follows:
      Received of               (fee payer) , this      day of             ,
the sum of $          in (full) (partial) satisfaction of impact fees due
pursuant to Ordinance No.              relating to improvements to be
constructed on the real estate described on Exhibit A, attached hereto, made
part hereof, and subject to lien rights in favor of the City of Fishers in the
event of partial payment with payments remaining due. The remaining balance due
(if any) is in the following amount: $                   . This impact fee is
dedicated to the creation of the following infrastructure element in accordance
with the Zone Improvement Plan:
                                                
Controller, City of Fishers
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 96.09 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any fee payer who believes itself to be aggrieved by the calculation
of the impact fee, may appeal from such calculation to the Fishers Impact Fee
Review Board. Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-1338, the Board shall be comprised of three
citizen members appointed by the Mayor as follows:
      (1)   One member who is a real estate broker licensed in Indiana;
      (2)   One member who is an engineer licensed in Indiana; and
      (3)   One member who is a certified public accountant.
   (B)   The Impact Fee Review Board shall conduct a hearing with regard
thereto. At such hearing, the fee payer shall bear the burden of going forward
with the evidence and shall present evidence addressing either of the following
propositions:
      (1)   A fact assumption used in determining the amount of the impact fee
is incorrect; or
      (2)   The amount of the impact fee is greater than the amount allowed
under IC 36-7-4-1320, 1321 and 1322.
   (C)   Upon conclusion of the presentation of evidence, the Fishers Impact
Fee Review Board shall within 30 days make a determination upon the facts
presented and may make such adjustments in the impact fee as they believe are
appropriate under the circumstances, if any.
   (D)   An appeal under this section must be filed not later than 30 days
after the issuance of the structural building permit. The appeal shall be
initiated with the filing of a Petition for Review with the Clerk-Controller’s
office, together with a filing fee in the amount of $100. The filing fee shall
be refunded in full if the following occur:
      (1)   The Petition for Review is granted and the impact fee is
eliminated, reduced or adjusted by the Fishers Impact Fee Review Board, by
independent action of the city, or by a court having jurisdiction, and
      (2)   The reviewing body determines that the amount of the fee,
reductions, or credits were arbitrary or capricious.
The Petition for Review shall be in a form calculated to inform the Fishers
Impact Fee Review Board of the nature of the complaint, the parties to the
action, and the relief requested. In addition, the petition shall describe the
new development on which the impact fee has been assessed, all facts related to
the assessment of the impact fee, and the reasons the petitioner believes that
the amount of the impact fee assessed is erroneous or is greater than the
amount allowed by the fee limitations set forth in the enabling statute.
   (E)   The city shall not deny the issuance of a structural building permit
on the basis that the impact fee has not been paid, or, condition issuance of
the permit on the payment of the impact fee. If the impact fee totals $1,000 or
less, the city may require the fee payer to pay the impact fee or initiate an
appeal under this section before the structural building permit is issued.
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 96.10 ESTABLISHMENT OF PARK AND RECREATIONAL FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the City Park and Recreational Fund. This
Fund shall be a non- reverting fund and shall receive any and all sums
collected pursuant to this chapter to be utilized in connection with the
purposes set forth herein. The Fund shall consist initially of one account
based upon the current existence of one Impact Zone. In the event, and only in
the event, that an additional Impact Zone is created hereafter, a separate
account shall be maintained for each separate Impact Zone established within
the city. Interest earned on the Fund or on any account within the Fund, shall
be deposited and maintained within the Fund or the separate account. Pursuant
to IC 36-7-4-1329(c), the Controller shall maintain records of the status of
the Fund or any account which may be established therein, and shall make an
annual report of said fund and accounts which shall be available to the public
in general and fee payers, upon request, in particular.
   (B)   Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-1332 (e), the Controller is designated as the
city official responsible to for acting upon refund requests. In order to
facilitate refunds when they may be due, the Controller is directed to identify
the purpose of any impact fee paid in order that a refund, if any, may be paid
from the Fund or account into which the fee was originally deposited.
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 96.11 USE OF IMPACT FEES COLLECTED.
   Any and all fees collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be
utilized for the following purposes only by the city, acting by and through its
City Council, which, for the purpose of this chapter is identified as the
“infrastructure agency” contemplated by IC 36-7-4-1317:
   (A)   Providing funds to be utilized by the city for the purpose of paying
the capital costs of new park and recreational infrastructure that is necessary
to serve the new development within the corporate limits of the city and that
is identified in the Zone Improvement Plan;
   (B)   An amount not to exceed 5% of the annual collections of the fee to be
utilized for expenses incurred by the city for the consulting services used to
establish this chapter;
   (C)   To pay any refund due pursuant to the terms of this chapter;
   (D)   To pay the debt service cost on an obligation issued to provide new
park and recreational infrastructure described in division (A) above.
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 96.12 HOUSE ENROLLED ACT NO. 1467.
   The City Council specifically acknowledges the existence of a law adopted by
the General Assembly of the State of Indiana which regulates the imposition of
impact fee ordinances by municipal corporations within the state. It is the
intent of the city to comply with such legislation, and this chapter shall be
construed in all respects to be consistent with the Act. The substantive and
procedural requirements of IC 36-7-4-1300 et seq. shall control in the event of
conflicts, which are unintended by the City Council.
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 96.13 AMENDMENTS AND REVIEW.
   The impact fee provided for herein is based upon data which, in large part,
is subject to inflation and other economic and market forces over which the
city has no control. The City Council shall, therefore, not less than once each
year, cause a review to be made by city staff or consultants as may be
required, to determine the continuing validity of the Impact Fee, the Impact
Zone, and the Zone Improvement Plan. The Council shall consider and adopt such
amendments as are necessary to cause a substantive compliance with the rational
nexus test to continue, to insure that procedural due process is maintained or
enhanced and to insure that this chapter meets the requirements of the IC 36-7-
4-1300 series. To the extent required by the facts and circumstances, this
process shall include the steps necessary to update the Zone Improvement Plan
and the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 060392B, passed 7-1-92; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 96.14 FEES FOR FACILITIES, PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES.
   There is hereby established a schedule of rates and fees for use in
connection with park facilities and participation in activities and programs,
all as set forth in the schedule which is located at the Office of the
Controller. The schedule may be amended from time to time as warranted.
(Res. R100603A, passed 10-6-03; Am. Ord. 062011, passed 6-20-11; Am. Res.
R040212D, passed 4-2-12; Am. Ord. 010713, passed 1-7-13; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 96.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFILIATE. An Indiana not-for profit organization:
      (1)   Registered with and in good standing with the Indiana Secretary of
State’s Office;
      (2)   That provides organized, competitive youth team sports activities;
      (3)   Whose membership is comprised of not less than 75% of youth who
reside within the HSE School District; and
      (4)   Who enter into a facility use agreement with Fishers.
   DEPARTMENT. Department of Parks and Recreation.
   FACILITY. An athletic or sports field of the Fishers Department of Parks and
Recreation that is available for rental.
   FACILITY USE AGREEMENT. An agreement by and between Fishers and an affiliate
establishing, among other items:
      (1)   The amount to be paid by an affiliate to cover the direct and
indirect costs associated with using a Fishers facility, and
      (2)   The duration of the agreement, which shall not be less than 12
months for such use.
   MAXIMUM EXPENDITURE. The maximum amounts recommended by S.P.O.R.T.S. and
approved by the Fishers that member organizations may spend on personal
services during the member organization’s 12 month fiscal year.
   MEMBER ORGANIZATION. A recreational youth sports league that:
      (1)   Is an Indiana not-for-profit corporation in good standing with the
Indiana Secretary of State’s Office;
      (2)   Is a sanctioned member of S.P.O.R.T.S.;
      (3)   Maintains yearly expenditures at or below its maximum expenditure;
      (4)   Complies with S.P.O.R.T.S.’ residency requirements for its members;
and
      (5)   Complies with all aspects of this chapter concerning a member
organization.
   PARK.  All public parklands owned by the city under the jurisdiction of the
City Council and management authority of the Department of Parks and
Recreation.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Services including but not limited to those provided by
coaches, trainers, administrators, technical staff, schedulers, security
personnel, field maintenance crews, consultants, camps, clinics, directors or
officers. Personal Services shall not include services provided by referees,
umpires, officials, concessions directors or coordinators, the sale of products
to league participants or sale of products at events.
   S.P.O.R.T.S. Southeastern Program of Recreational Team Sports doing business
as Mudsock Youth Sports
   TRAIL.  Multi-purpose trail, greenway trail, or park trail owned by the city
under the jurisdiction of the City Council and management authority of the
Department of Parks and Recreation.
   VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, trailer, snowmobile, motorcycle, motor scooter
or other means of motorized conveyance.
(Ord. 051506A, passed 6-19-06; Am. Res. R091806A, passed 9-18-06; Am. Ord.
050714A, passed 7-5-14; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 031725A,
passed 3-17-25)
§ 96.16 PARK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The city or Department may engage in or permit select activities for
authorized management, special events and programs, maintenance, medical, and
law enforcement purposes irrespective of this section.
   (B)   This section does not affect any existing informal or formal agreement
between the city and S.P.O.R.T.S. regarding the use of athletic fields.
   (C)   All applicable federal, state, and local laws apply and will be
enforced.
   (D)   Any person who commits any of the following acts in a park or on a
trail shall be fined in accordance with §
96.99.
      (1)   Park and trail rules. To disobey or disregard the rules, notices,
prohibitions, instructions, or directions posted on any park or trail sign by
the Department.
      (2)   Vehicle restrictions. To operate or park a vehicle within any park
or on a trail except on clearly marked and designated roadways, drives, and
parking spaces.
      (3)   Hunting. To bring, carry, or possess a bow and arrow or to bring,
carry, possess, set or use any snare, trap, seine, net, similar device, or
other weapon (excluding firearms) capable of capturing or harming any wild
animal or bird in a park or on a trail.
      (4)   Fires. To build a campfire in a park or on a trail without a permit
from the Department.
      (5)   Animals and plants.
         (a)   To ride a horse or pony in a park or on a trail not specifically
designated for that purpose without a permit from the Department.
         (b)    To release any domesticated or wild animal, plant, flower,
tree, seed, or other vegetation in a park or on a trail.
         (c)   To catch or otherwise harass any wild animal or bird in a park
or on a trail. Fishing is permitted in areas designated for that purpose.
      (6)   Games. To engage in any athletic contest, event, or activity not
specifically designated for that purpose whereby an area is usurped by
participants to the exclusion of others or at the risk of injury to others or
damage to property.
      (7) Vandalism.
         (a)   To damage any structure, vegetation, nest, or any other property
situated or kept in a park or on a trail.
         (b)   To expand private land boundaries into a park or trail, use a
park or trail for the storage of personal property, build ground or tree forts,
install a tree stand or hunting blind, or to otherwise encroach in any way upon
a park or trail in a manner inconsistent with its intended use and purpose.
         (c)   To remove or take for one’s own personal or private use, any
sign, trash receptacle, table, bench, log, flower, plant, tree, shrub, animal,
or any other property located in a park or on a trail.
         (d)   To alter, construct, erect, or remove any structure within a
park or on a trail without a permit from the Department or city.
      (8)   Camping. To pitch or maintain a tent or other improvised shelter in
a park or on a trail for the purpose of overnight camping without a permit from
the Department.
      (9)   Alcohol. To bring, possess, consume, dispense, convey, or give away
any alcohol beverage in a park or on a trail without first obtaining a permit
from the city.
      (10) Amusements. To erect or fabricate any tent, booth, stand, pavilion,
or to operate any ride or similar device in a park or on a trail without a
permit from the Department.
      (11) Swimming. To swim or bathe in any area, including stream, creek,
river, pond, or lake within a park or along a trail not designated and marked
specifically for that purpose.
      (12) Peddling and soliciting. To hawk, peddle, solicit, distribute
handbills, advertise, post signs, or offer for sale any item in a park or on a
trail without a permit from the Department or city.
      (13) Assembly.
         (a)   To assemble for the purpose of or which, in fact, results in
blocking or obstructing the lawful use by any other person of any portion of a
park or trail or any structure in a park or on a trail or any position of
access or exit to or from any park, trail, or structure therein.
         (b)   To fail or refuse to withdraw from an unlawful assembly promptly
upon issuance of an order to disperse, if such order is given in such manner
that such person can reasonably be expected to hear and read such order.
      (14) Interference. To interfere with any contractor, city employee, or
permit holder while in the performance of his/her duty or while performing any
legal activity within a park or on a trail.
      (15) Reservations. To use or occupy any park shelter, athletic facility,
or other facility while posted as “reserved” or after having been presented
with an official permit to use such facility for some specific organized
function by a group of persons, organization, or individual.
      (16) Fees. To charge admission, collect fees or payment for any activity,
event, service, or use of any land or facility in a park or on a trail without
a permit from the Department.
      (17) Park hours. All parks shall be closed to the general public between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except as otherwise posted and permitted
by the Department. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to be
present in a park during the above stated hours or at other times as posted.
Exceptions: Persons who are participating in or associated with a Department of
Parks and Recreation/city sponsored or approved program or event and
S.P.O.R.T.S. sanctioned activities.
(Ord. 051506A, passed 6-19-06; Am. Res. R091806A, passed 9-18-06; Am. Ord.
121613C, passed 12-16-13; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 111918D,
passed 11-19-18) Penalty, see §
96.99
ATHLETIC FIELDS
§ 96.20 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR USE.
   (A)   Participants in member organizations. As a condition of use of Fishers
athletic and sports fields by member organizations, which are given priority in
scheduling and allowed to use Fishers’ athletic fields free of charge, Fishers
requires that all participants in Member Organizations reside within the HSE
School District, subject only to exceptions expressly stated hereafter. All
member organizations must accept any applicant who resides within the HSE
School District, or whose parent(s), step-parent(s) or guardian(s) reside
within the HSE School District, unless such person has been found unfit for
participation in S.P.O.R.T.S.’ Member organizations in accordance with the
policies and procedures of such member organization. It is Fishers’ intent and
expectation that each member organization shall have its own rules and
regulations governing registration requirements and scheduling, obtaining
uniforms, setting up teams and the like. The obligation to accept any applicant
does not negate the right of the member organization to establish reasonable
rules and regulations to govern the conduct of its affairs. These rules may
include provisions for the exclusion of parents who are determined to be unfit
from participation.
   (B)   Affiliation with S.P.O.R.T.S. To promote a unified, comprehensive and
integrated operation of member organizations that desire to take advantage of
the facilities provided by Fishers free of charge and pursuant to priority
scheduling, Fishers requires that all such member organizations that wish to
schedule games on Fishers’ athletic fields be a member in good standing of
S.P.O.R.T.S. To be a member in good standing of S.P.O.R.T.S., the member
organization shall have as a standing rule within its constitution and/or
bylaws that all of its participants shall reside within the limits of the HSE
School District. In the event that S.P.O.R.T.S. sanctions a member organization
that does not adhere to this requirement, such organization may not be
scheduled for free-of charge use of Fishers’ facilities. Notwithstanding the
foregoing provision and the earlier requirement that youth participants of
member organizations reside within the HSE School District, a member
organization may file a waiver with the S.P.O.R.T.S. office to allow non-HSE
School District players to participate to:
      (1)   Complete a full team that could not otherwise be accomplished under
appropriate circumstances, or
      (2)   Permit participation by a child in a neighboring community (borders
adjacent to Fishers) in a team sport that is not available in the child’s home
community. Appropriate circumstances shall be reasonably determined by
S.P.O.R.T.S.’ Board of Directors. The waiver shall be in writing and shall set
forth the particular circumstances justifying the exception to the rule. In no
case may a youth participant resident of the HSE School District be cut from
the program in order to accommodate a player that does not reside within the
HSE School District. A waiver sought or obtained on what are deemed to be
inappropriate circumstances may serve as a basis for the withdrawal of the
sanction for a member organization by S.P.O.R.T.S. in the exercise of
reasonable discretion.
   (C)   S.P.O.R.T.S’ Requirements.
      (1)   As a condition of the continuation of the relationship between
Fishers and S.P.O.R.T.S., the following requirements shall be incorporated into
the policies and procedures of S.P.O.R.T.S. to the extent that they do not
currently exist:
         (a)   S.P.O.R.T.S. shall determine maximum expenditures that member
organizations may make during the member organizations’ fiscal year. A member
organization shall be notified in writing of any proposed decrease to its
maximum expenditure at least ten days prior to Fishers approving such a
decrease.
         (b)   A member organization may not expend in excess of its maximum
expenditure for personal services during its 12-month fiscal year. If a member
organization expends revenue in excess of its maximum expenditure, the member
organization automatically forfeits its designation as a member organization
and the benefits associated with that designation, including priority and free-
of-charge scheduling of Fishers’ athletic fields.
         (c)   Each member organization of S.P.O.R.T.S. must make a complete
annual public financial report and accounting. This financial report shall, at
a minimum, contain detailed accounting of the sources of revenue and
expenditure of all funds, and a statement of financial position. This public
accounting must be filed with the S.P.O.R.T.S. office within 30 days of the
member organization’s fiscal year. The financial report shall be a public
document available for public inspection at the S.P.O.R.T.S. office.
         (d)   A member organization shall be an Indiana not-for-profit
corporation in good standing with the Indiana Secretary of State’s Office.
         (e)   A member organization shall provide a certificate of
comprehensive liability insurance coverage in an amount not less than
$1,000,000/$3,000,000 insuring the member organization from any and all
liability for its negligence and naming Fishers as a co-insured.
      (2)   The failure of S.P.O.R.T.S. to incorporate and enforce the
foregoing policies may result in a reconsideration of the relationship between
Fishers and S.P.O.R.T.S. with regard to the use and scheduling of the
Facilities owned by Fishers.
(Ord. 052101, passed 10-15-01; Am. Ord. 050714A, passed 7-5-14)
§ 96.21 AFFILIATES.
   (A)   In recognition of the youth sports opportunities and programming
offered by affiliates that Fishers does not currently offer, Fishers desires to
provide priority scheduling, second to S.P.O.R.T.S’ scheduling, and use of its
athletic fields to affiliates pursuant to a field use agreement entered into
with each affiliate.
   (B)   Affiliates shall at all times:
      (1)   Indiana not-for-profits registered with and in good standing with
the Indiana Secretary of State’s Office;
      (2)   Obtain and at all times maintain federal 501(c)(3) status;
      (3)   Provide organized, competitive youth team sports activities;
      (4)   Allow only those teams comprised of not less than 75% of youth who
reside within the HSE School District to use a Fishers facility;
      (5)   Provide a certificate of comprehensive liability insurance coverage
in an amount not less than $l,000,000/$3,000,000 insuring the affiliate from
any and all liability and naming Fishers as co-insured;
      (6)   Maintain financial records which shall, at a minimum, contain a
detailed, line-item accounting of all sources of revenue and all expenditures
of funds and a statement of financial position, and upon request, immediately
make such accounting available for Fishers’ review; and
      (7)   Operate pursuant to a facility use agreement with Fishers.
   (C)   If an affiliate does not adhere to these requirements, the affiliate:
      (1)   Forfeits priority scheduling of Fishers’ athletic fields; and
      (2)   Its facility use agreement, except for the obligation to satisfy
any outstanding amount owed to Fishers, if any, automatically terminates.
   (D)   Priority use. Affiliates shall be entitled to priority use of Fishers’
athletic fields, second only to S.P.O.R.T.S’ scheduling, upon:
      (1)   entering into a facility use agreement with Fishers;
      (2)   Providing a certificate of comprehensive liability insurance
coverage in an amount not less than $l,000,000/$3,000,000 insuring the
affiliate from any and all liability for its negligence and naming Fishers as
co-insured; and
      (3)   Providing a business entity report or other similar document
establishing that the Affiliate is an Indiana not-for-profit registered with
and in good standing with the Indiana Secretary of State’s Office.
   (E)   Limited use. Fishers reserves the right to limit use of Fishers’
facilities. Scheduling requests made by affiliates s shall be granted on a
first-come, first-served basis.
(Ord. 050714A, passed 5-7-14)
§ 96.22 NON-DISCRIMINATION/APPLICABLE LAW.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, it is Fishers’ policy that no
child shall be denied the opportunity to participate in any sports league
utilizing the Fishers’ playing fields in violation of the Constitution of the
United States of America or the Constitution of the State of Indiana. This
statement of policy recognizes that there may be circumstances under which
there are inadequate facilities to provide for all of the residentially
qualified participants. It is not the intent of Fishers to obligate itself to
provide for adequate facilities any sooner than prudent fiscal policy permits
in such events. Fishers shall continue to provide for priority scheduling of
Fishers’ athletic fields in a manner that does not preclude the use of such
athletic fields by others who do not meet the qualifications provided for in
this section.
(Ord. 050714A, passed 5-7-14)
§ 96.23 SCHEDULING.
   It shall be Fishers’ policy that:
   (A)   S.P.O.R.T.S.’ member organizations and then affiliates shall have
priority in scheduling athletic events on Fishers’ athletic fields.
   (B)   The Director of the Parks Department shall have the exclusive
discretion and authority to schedule the use of Fishers’ athletic fields when
such fields are not in use by S.P.O.R.T.S.’ member organizations or affiliates.
   (C)   Scheduling by the Director of the Parks Department shall not conflict
with previously scheduled use by S.P.O.R.T.S.’ member organizations or
Affiliates which shall be entitled to priority but not exclusivity.
(Ord. 050714A, passed 5-7-14; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
031725A, passed 3-17-25)
§ 96.24 FIELD RENTAL FEE.
   The use of Fishers’ athletic fields by organizations that are not
S.P.O.R.T.S. member organizations or affiliates shall be subject to a field
rental fee. The rental fee for Fishers’ athletic fields shall be annually
reviewed and approved by Fishers, which fee shall be consistent with state and
federal law and rationally related to Fishers’ cost to operate the athletic
fields.
(Ord. 050714A, passed 5-7-14; Am. Ord. 031725A, passed 3-17-25)
§ 96.25 TRESPASS.
   The provisions of this subchapter may be enforced by any employee of Fishers
upon notice of the violation including public safety personnel, Park Department
employees or others. Any person or entity occupying Fishers’ facilities during
periods that have been scheduled for use by others is considered a trespasser
and is subject to immediate ejection from such facility. Refusal to leave a
Fishers athletic field upon request by a Fishers employee constitutes an
infraction for which a citation may be issued in accordance with this code.
(Ord. 050714A, passed 5-7-14)
§ 96.26 MAXIMUM EXPENDITURES.
   The maximum expenditure for each of S.P.O.R.T.S.’ member organizations is
attached to the ordinance codified herein and is incorporated herein by
reference. Changes to a maximum expenditure shall be recommended by S.P.O.R.T.S
and approved by Fishers.
(Ord. 050714A, passed 5-7-14)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the Fishers Police
Department or the Department of Parks and Recreation. Each violator of the
restrictions and provisions of this chapter shall pay a fine to the city’s
Ordinance Violations Bureau in the sum and amount set forth in §
36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action may be filed by the
City Attorney’s office in the Fishers City Court. Restitution, in addition to
the fine, applies in all cases when damage to city property occurs.
(Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18)
CHAPTER 97: DEPARTMENT OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AND HOMELAND SECURITY
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions and general provisions
   
97.03   Establishment
   
97.04   Duties; powers
   
97.05   Chief; staff
   
97.06   Local disaster emergency
   
97.07   Emergency communications and warnings
   
97.08   Emergency power and procedure
   
97.09   Annual reports required
   
97.10   Affirmative obligations
   
97.11   Actions in event of release
   
97.12   Abatement of nuisance or unsanitary conditions
   
97.13   Reasonable and necessary expenses; reimbursement
   
97.14   Collection of penalties
   
97.15   Conformance of emergency management rule with Hamilton County’s
Emergency Management Program and Emergency Plan
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a Department of Emergency
Management and Homeland Security within the city to provide for the exercise of
necessary powers during disaster emergency, and to supplement the Emergency
Management and Disaster Law (IC 10-14-3-1 et seq.).
   (B)   Further, it is the intent of this chapter to supplement the provisions
of the federal act and such other federal and state statutes, rules and
regulations as may be applicable with respect to any facility that produces,
uses, stores, or otherwise has possession of hazardous chemicals, hazardous
substances or extremely hazardous substances. No provision of this chapter
shall be deemed to supersede any federal or state requirement and to the extent
that any provision herein conflicts with the federal act or any other federal
or state statute, rule or regulation, such federal or state statute, rule or
regulation shall control.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   As used in this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Fishers, Hamilton County, Indiana.
   COUNTY. Hamilton County, Indiana.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security as
established by city ordinance.
   DIRECTOR. The individual in charge of the Department of Emergency Management
and Homeland Security as appointed by the Mayor.
   DISASTER. The same definition as included in IC 10-14-3-1.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The same definition as included in IC 10-14-3-2.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN. The current local comprehensive emergency
management plan whose preparation and updating are mandated by IC 10-14-3-17
(h).
   EXTREMELY HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance so designated by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency by regulation adopted under the federal
act.
   FACILITY. All buildings, equipment, structures, and other stationery items
that are located on a single site on contiguous or adjacent sites and that are
owned, operated or used by the same person or by any person who controls, is
controlled by, or is under common control with that person. For purposes of the
notification required by §
95.22, the term includes motor vehicles, rolling stock and aircraft.
   FEDERAL ACT.  Title III of the "Superfund Amendments and Re-authorization
Act of 1986" 100 STAT. 1728,42 U.S.C. 11001, as amended.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. Fishers Fire and Emergency Services.
   HAZARDOUS CHEMICAL. The meaning given to that term in 29 C.F.K 1910.1200(c),
but does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any food, food additive, color additive, drug, or cosmetic
regulated by the Food and Drug Administration of the United States Department
of Health and Human Services;
      (2)   Any substance present as a solid in any manufactured item to the
extent that exposure to the substance does not occur under normal conditions of
use;
      (3)   Any substance to the extent it is used for person, family or
household purposes or is present in the same form and concentration as a
product packaged for distribution to and used by the general public, including,
without limitation, household and consumer products that are stored prior to or
displayed for distribution to the consumer when in the same form and
concentration as such products when not intended for use by the general public
in the same form and concentration;
      (4)   Any substance to the extent it is used in a research laboratory or
hospital or other medical facility under the direct supervision of a
technically qualified individual; or
      (5)   Any substance to the extent it is used in routine agricultural
operations or is a fertilizer held for sale by a retailer to the ultimate
customer.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. The same definition as provided in IC 13-11-2-96.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY. The same definition as provided in IC 13-11-
2-97.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance so designed under the "Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980" 94 STAT 2767,
42 U.S.C. 9601, as amended and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The official Health Officer for Hamilton County as appointed
by the Hamilton County Health Department, or the Health Officer officially
appointed by the Mayor.
   LOCAL EMERGENCY PLANNING COMMITTEE. The Hamilton County Local Emergency
Planning Committee.
   PERSON. Any individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation
(mcluding a government corporation), partnership, association, state,
municipality, commission, political subdivision of a state or interstate body.
   PERSONNEL. City employees and emergency management volunteers unless
otherwise indicated.
   PESTICIDE. The same definition as included in IC 13-11-2-159.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The same definition as included in IC 13-11-2-191.
   U.S. EPA.  The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.03 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the Fishers Department of Emergency Management and
Homeland Security, in accordance with IC 10-14-3 et seq. The Mayor shall
appoint a Director for the Department of Emergency Management and Homeland
Security.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.04 DUTIES; POWERS.
   The Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security shall:
   (A)   Coordinate and direct the development of the city's' Emergency
Management Plan which shall involve all sectors of government and the private
sector, and shall address all threats or emergencies from all hazards,
including natural, technological, man-caused and national security hazards, and
shall include mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery activities;
   (B)   Prepare, disseminate and maintain in current status a city Emergency
Management Plan that addresses in detail the response to and recovery from
major emergencies occurring in the city, and that shall be the sole Emergency
Management Plan for the city; no private organizations shall develop emergency
operating or disaster plans or procedures that are in conflict with the city's
Emergency Management Plan except where specifically authorized by ordinance,
statute, or federal law or regulation;
   (C)   Designate and manage an emergency operations center to which senior
government officials and chief coordinators designated in the city's Emergency
Management Plan may respond to formulate and disseminate decisions regarding
the management of a major emergency; the Department of Emergency Management and
Homeland Security may also designate such auxiliary emergency operations
centers as may be necessary;
   (D)   Coordinate the development and execution of tests, drills and
exercises of the city's Emergency Management Plan or any of its parts;
   (E)   Be responsible for monitoring hazardous conditions of any kind in the
city, making recommendations to the Mayor concerning emergency measures and
activating the city's Emergency Management Plan after the declaration of a
local disaster emergency by the executive and for coordinating response and
recovery operations associated with a major emergency;
   (F)   Serve as the city's emergency management organization for the purpose
of IC 10-14-3;
   (G)   Be authorized to seek and apply for grants, contracts and other
sources of funding necessary or in support of its duties from the federal
government, state government and nongovernmental public and private sources;
and
   (H)   Coordinate the recruitment and training for volunteer personnel and
agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the city for emergency
management purposes.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.05 CHIEF; STAFF.
   (A)   The Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security shall be
under the direction of a Director.
   (B)   The Director shall be responsible for such paid and voluntary staff
members as are necessary to fulfill the duties of the Department of Emergency
Management and Homeland Security. The Department of Emergency Management and
Homeland Security may organize such volunteer units, emergency reservist and
others as may be necessary to fulfill its duties.
   (C)   The Director may:
      (1)   Coordinate the recruitment and training for volunteer personnel and
agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the city for emergency
management purposes;
      (2)   Seek, negotiate and enter into, with the approval of the executive
and consistent with the state comprehensive emergency management plan and
program, mutual aid arrangements with other public and private agencies for
emergency management purposes and take all steps in accordance with such
arrangements to comply with or take advantage thereof in the event of an actual
emergency affective the parties;
      (3)   Accept any offer of the county, state, or federal government to
provide for the use of the city any services, equipment, supplies, materials or
funds for emergency management purposes by way of gift, grant, or loan, upon
the Mayor's approval of such offer.
   (D)   In addition to the powers and duties expressly provided in this
chapter, the Director shall be construed to have all the powers and duties of a
local Emergency Management Director as provided under IC 10-14-3. In
particular, but not by limitation, the Director, through the Department, may
perform or cause to be performed with the respect of the city, any function
parallel or analogous to those performed on a countywide basis by the County
EMA or on a statewide basis by Indiana Department of Homeland Security under IC
10-14-3.
   (E)   Unless otherwise indicated, the Director has the responsibility of
enforcing this chapter. The Director, his designee, or any law enforcement
officer may bring an action seeking a conviction of a class A infraction, as
authorized under this section, in a court of general jurisdiction within the
county.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.06 LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY.
   (A)   In accordance with IC 10-14-3-29, the Mayor, or his designee, may
declare a local disaster. The local disaster may not be continued or renewed
for more than seven days except by or with the consent of the Council. Any
order or proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local disaster
emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed
promptly in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster emergency is to:
      (1)   Activate the response and recovery aspects of all applicable local
or interjurisdictional disaster emergency management plans; and
      (2)   Authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance under the Emergency
Management Plan
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.07 EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS AND WARNINGS.
   (A)   The Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security shall
coordinate the development of an emergency communications and warning system
that will allow for the dissemination of warnings to potential responders and
the general public, to effect the notification of appropriate response agencies
and individuals, and to distribute and receive information to and from
potential emergency responders and the general public regarding an emergency
condition.
   (B)   The Department shall develop and maintain an integrated system for
warning the public, which may include the deployment of public warning sirens,
the development of voice radio systems, coordination of the mobilization of
cable television systems, coordination of the city's participation in the
emergency broadcast system, and any other appropriate systems that may become
available.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.08 EMERGENCY POWER AND PROCEDURE.
   The Mayor or his or her designee may, upon declaring a local disaster
emergency, take such actions as are appropriate to assure the public well-
being, safety of public and private property and the environment including, but
not limited to, the imposition of travel bans on streets and highways; the
imposition of curfews; the alteration of normal business working hours; the
ordering of evacuation and relocation of civilian populations; all as may be
necessary to effect emergency response and recovery.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.09 ANNUAL REPORTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a facility that is required to prepare or
have available a material safety data sheet for a hazardous chemical under the
"Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970," 84 STAT 1590, 29 U.S.C. 1651, as
amended, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and that had present at the
facility during the preceding calendar year an amount of a hazardous chemical
or an extremely hazardous substance exceeding the threshold level for that
chemical or substance established by regulations adopted under the federal act
shall, no later than March 1 annually, submit an emergency and hazardous
chemical inventory form (the "inventory form") to the Local Emergency Planning
Committee and to the Department of Fire & Emergency Services.
   (B)   The inventory form shall contain for each such hazardous chemical or
extremely hazardous substance information that has been designated as Tier II
information under the federal act.
   (C)   Upon request of the Local Emergency Planning Committee or the
Department of Fire and Emergency Services, the owner or operator of a facility
that is subject to this section shall, no later than 30 days after receiving
such request, file a copy of the Tier II form with the local emergency
management director or the Department of Fire and Emergency Services.
   (D)   Any person who adds additional hazardous chemicals or extremely
hazardous substances to his or her location or substantially increases the
quantity of any such substance shall amend his Tier II report and file the
amended report within 30 days of the addition of the new substance or a
substantial increase in a substance.
   (E)   No person shall fail to comply with this section. Each day that a
person is in noncompliance with this section shall constitute a separate
violation hereunder. The Department may, in its discretion, commence an action
under this section against any person who violates the provisions of this
section. Any action under this section is a civil action, governed by the
general rules, practice and procedure applicable to civil action in the state.
In addition to an action for civil penalties, the Department may, in its
discretion, bring an action for injunctive relief to permanently enjoin any
person from further violation of the provisions of this section and the federal
act.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.10 AFFIRMATIVE OBLIGATIONS.
   The owner or operator of any facility at which there is present a hazardous
chemical or an extremely hazardous substance in an amount that exceeds the
threshold level for that substance established by regulations adopted under the
federal act shall, in accordance with such act, and regulations promulgated
thereunder, do all of the following:
   (A)   No later than three months after becoming subject to the federal act,
notify the Local Emergency Planning Committee and the Department of Emergency
Management and Homeland Security that:
      (1)   The facility is subject to the federal act;
      (2)   Provide the name of a facility representative who will participate
in the emergency planning process as the facility emergency coordinator.
   (B)   Promptly inform the Local Emergency Planning Committee and the
Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security of any changes
occurring at the facility that may be relevant to the emergency planning
process.
   (C)   Upon request of the Local Emergency Planning Committee or the
Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security of, promptly provide
information that is necessary for developing and implementing the local
emergency response plan, as that term is defined under the federal act.
Information that is provided under this section is subject to the restrictions
on the release of trade secret information under the federal act.
   (D)   No person shall fail to comply with this section. Each day that a
person is in noncompliance with this section shall constitute a separate
violation hereunder. The Local Emergency Planning Committee may, in its
discretion, commence an action under this section against any person who
violates the provisions of this section. Any action under this section is a
civil action, governed by the general rules, practice and procedure applicable
to civil actions in the state. In addition to an action for civil penalties,
the Local Emergency Planning Committee may, in its discretion, bring an action
for injunctive relief to permanently enjoin any person from further violations
or the provisions of this section and the federal act.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.11 ACTIONS IN EVENT OF RELEASE.
   (A) In the event of a release of a hazardous chemical or an extremely
hazardous substance from a facility that is reportable under the federal act,
the owner or operator of such facility shall immediately notify the Local
Emergency Planning Committee, and the Department of Fire and Emergency
Services.
   (B)   For any release for which a written follow-up emergency notice is
required by the federal act, that notice shall be provided to the Local
Emergency Planning Committee and the Department of Emergency Management and
Homeland Security.
   (C)   Whenever an owner or operator of a facility is required to submit any
report to the U.S. EPA under regulations adopted under section 104 of the
"Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980",
94 STAT. 2767, 42 U.S.C. 9601, as amended, concerning the circumstances
relating to the sudden, accidental release of a hazardous chemical or extremely
hazardous substance at or from the facility, such owner or operator shall
submit a copy of the report to the local agency planning committee and the
Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security, at the same.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.12 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE OR UNSANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The County Board of Health, the city Public Works and Safety Board,
the city Police Department, the Department of Emergency Management and Homeland
Security, shall have full power and authority to enter into or upon any street,
premises or ground for the purpose of making a sanitary survey of the same;
provided, that before making any such entrance, due request for permission
shall have been made at proper and reasonable hours.
   (B)   If a nuisance or any unsanitary conditions are found upon making a
sanitary survey, the person so offending, shall be notified in writing, fixing
a time limit to abate the nuisance. If such person shall fail or refuse to
abate the nuisance within the time specified, it shall be the duty of the
Department of Public Works to cause such nuisance to be abated, keeping an
accurate account of the expense thereof, which shall be paid from the city
treasury upon the sworn voucher of the Department of Public Works, and such
expense shall be a lien on the property, and collected as taxes are collected,
and turned into the City Treasury.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.13 REASONABLE AND NECESSARY EXPENSES; REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   The persons who are responsible parties in connection with a hazardous
material emergency shall reimburse the city for all reasonable and necessary
expenses incurred in taking emergency action. Reimbursement is available under
this section for expenses that are incurred by the city in taking emergency
action, except for expenses of a type that the agency normally incurs in
responding to emergencies that do not involve hazardous materials.
Reimbursement for expenses is not available under this section if those
expenses may be reimbursed by the federal government under section 123 of the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, 42 USC 9623.
   (B)   The city may obtain reimbursement by filing an action for
reimbursement in a court of general jurisdiction of a county in which a
hazardous materials emergency arises.
   (C)   If a responsible party fails to pay the amounts due to the city within
60 days of written demand for such reimbursement, the responsible party shall
be guilty of a class A infraction. Each day that the responsible party fails to
make reimbursement 60 days after written demand is considered a separate
offense, and the responsible party may be fined up to $2,500 for each such
violation. This fine shall be in addition to the continuing duty of the
responsible party to reimburse the amount due in §
97.14(A).
   (D)   The city shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees incurred to
collect reimbursement from any responsible party, as well as interest at the
statutory rate on the amount paid by the city.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.14 COLLECTION OF PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any civil penalties imposed under this chapter shall be paid to the
Controller.
   (B)   Any fines imposed under this section shall be paid to the Controller
for deposit into any account maintained under this section. Any amounts in that
account shall be distributed in the following order of priority:
      (1)   To each city department including but not limited to Police, Fire,
and Public Works, for any unreimbursed costs incurred by it taking emergency
action for the hazardous materials emergency which gave rise to the fine.
      (2)   Reimbursement to the city for any attorneys' fees, witness fees, or
other costs incurred in maintaining the action against the responsible party in
connection with the hazardous materials emergency that give rise to the fine.
      (3)   Reimbursement to the city for any costs associated with a hazardous
materials emergency that has not been reimbursed.
      (4)   For use by the city for hazardous materials training.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.15 CONFORMANCE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT RULE WITH HAMILTON COUNTY'S
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM AND EMERGENCY PLAN.
   Pursuant to IC 10-14-3-22, any rule or regulation may not be inconsistent
with the County Emergency Management Program and Emergency Plan. If any portion
of this chapter is to be found in conflict the County's requirements shall
prevail. If for any reason any part of this chapter is declared to be invalid
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall, upon conviction thereof, pay a fine of
not more than $2,500. Each day any violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense. In all cases where the same offense may be made punishable,
or may be created by different clause or sections of the ordinances of the
city, the Corporation Counsel or his or her designee may elect under which to
proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the same person
for the same offense.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
97.10 shall be deemed guilty of a violation and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in an amount not exceeding $300. Each day such violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §
97.09 shall be punished by a fine of $25 payable to the Controller. Each day
the violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person who violates any provision of §
97.12 shall pay a civil penalty of not more than $2,500 for each such
violation.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 98: NOISE
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Offense
   
98.03   Exception
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS SOUNDS. Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally
established non-transient businesses, organizations, and governmental entities.
Examples include noise emanating from normal patronage or property maintenance.
Business sounds do not include sounds from devices, motor vehicles, or
watercraft.
   DEVICE. Any radio, tape recorder/player, compact disc player, stereo system,
record player, television or other electronic device capable of producing,
reproducing, or amplifying any sound, noise, musical rhythm or vocal sound.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle, such as, but not limited to automobiles, trucks,
motorcycles or any other vehicles propelled or operated by means of power.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any noise, musical sound, musical rhythm or any other sound
that is electronically amplified or broadcast in any manner that can be heard
by the human ear without the use of a hearing aid.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF- WAY or PUBLIC PLACE. Includes, but is not limited to, any
avenue, street, road, alley, easement, parkway, highway, sidewalk, park or
other public place that is owned or controlled by any governmental entity.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A single family or multifamily dwelling located within the
city’s corporate limits.
   WATERCRAFT. As defined by IC 6-6-11-1.
(Ord. 071000, passed 11-20-00; Am. Ord. 110310, passed 3-21-11; Am. Ord.
120213A, passed 12-2-13; Am. Ord. 121624, passed 1-13-25)
§ 98.02 OFFENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, or entity to
generate or produce noise that exceeds 80 decibels for any period of time, when
measured on a dB(A) scale from a distance of not less than 50 feet from the
property line.
   (B)   Except as provided by § 98.03, it shall be unlawful for any person,
corporation, or entity to play, use, or operate any device that exceeds the
following limits:
      (1)   During the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. 80 decibels as measured
at least 50 feet from the property line of where the device is located;
      (2)   During the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., plainly audible from
a point no closer than 50 feet from the property line of property where a
device producing or amplifying the sound is located; or
      (3)   During the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., plainly audible from
the shared boundary between residential units when the device producing or
amplifying the sound is located within an apartment complex or other shared-
wall condominium/townhouse styled private residential structure.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play, use, or operate a device
from a watercraft or boat (as defined by IC 6-6-11-1) located on Geist
Reservoir that exceeds 80 decibels at the shoreline or water’s edge.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful within the municipal limits of the city, for any
device within or attached to any motor vehicle to be utilized in or at such a
level so as to be plainly audible at a distance greater than 30 feet from said
device.
   (E)   The use and operation of lawn mowers, weed blowers, garden tractors,
construction and repair equipment, go-carts, generators and power tools and the
like, shall be limited to the following hours: between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. May 15 to September 15, and 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. September 16
to May 14 only.
   (F)   The use of rubbish collection equipment shall be in accordance with
Chapter 50 of the City Code of Ordinances dealing with garbage, trash and
refuse collections.
   (G)   Business sounds within 50 feet of a residential unit. When sounds or
noise are associated with the normal conduct of legally established non-
transient businesses, organizations, and governmental entities, and the sounds
emanate from a property with a border that is located within 50 feet of a
residential unit, such sounds:
      (1)   Shall not exceed 80 decibels, as measured from a point no closer
than the property line of any residential unit between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 11:00 p.m.
      (2)   Shall not exceed 70 decibels, as measured from a point no closer
than the property line of any residential unit between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 071000, passed 11-20-00; Am. Ord. 110310, passed 3-21-11; Am. Ord.
120213A, passed 12-2- 13; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 121624,
passed 1-13-25)
§ 98.03 EXCEPTION.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
   (A)   Sounds emitted from authorized emergency vehicles or sirens (including
tornado sirens).
   (B)   Burglar and car alarms and other warning devices, when properly
installed, providing the cause for such alarm or warning device sound is
investigated and turned off within a reasonable period of time.
   (C)   City, school or other governmental entity sanctioned parades,
festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, athletic events, concert
performances, band and drum corps performances, artistic performances and the
like, as well as any rehearsals for same.
   (D)   The emission of sound for the purposes of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency or the testing of such equipment, or for the
performance of emergency construction, repair or other work.
   (E)   Sounds associated with the normal operation of the Gun Club (14926
East 113th Street, Fortville, IN 46060), church bells, cannon salutes, Conner
Prairie’s re-enactments or Symphony on the Prairie, and boat racing horns on
Geist Reservoir during a bona fide practice or race used by an official of the
race or practice, when such sounds are within the normal range appropriate for
such use.
   (F)   Subject to the other provisions of this section, and any other
applicable law, rule or regulation, those sounds associated with motor vehicles
lawfully operating on city, county, state, and federal streets and highways.
   (G)   Sounds associated with the operation of aircraft or snow removal
equipment.
   (H)   Sounds emitted by emergency, generators in the event of power failure,
periodic testing and maintenance shall adhere to division (B) above.
   (I)   Sounds emitted by construction work or road work approved by the city
or other governmental entity.
   (J)   Train horns as required by law.
   (K)   Sounds associated with the lawful use of consumer fireworks as
prescribed by §
99.02 of this Code.
   (L)   Sounds associated with equipment or animals lawfully used by a
disabled person to accommodate the person’s disability.
   (M)   Projects receiving a Nickel Plate District Construction Waiver from
the Board of Public Works and Safety.
(Ord. 071000, passed 11-20-00; Am. Ord. 110310, passed 3-21-11; Am. Ord.
120213A, passed 12-2- 13; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 051820A,
passed 5-18-20; Am. Ord. 121624, passed 1-13-25)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the Fishers Police
Department. Each violator of the restrictions and provisions of this chapter
shall pay a fine to the city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau in the sum and
amount set forth in §
36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action may be filed by the
City Attorney’s office in the Fishers City Court.
(Ord. 071000, passed 11-20-00; Am. Ord. 110310, passed 3-21-11; Am. Ord.
120213A, passed 12-2- 13; Am. Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18)
CHAPTER 99: FIREWORKS
Section
   
99.01   Definition of consumer firework
   
99.02   Use of consumer fireworks within the city
   
99.03   Supervised public displays
   
99.04   Enforcement
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 DEFINITION OF CONSUMER FIREWORK.
   For purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORK.  
      (1)   A small firework that is designed primarily to produce visible
effects by combustion, and that is required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR 1507. The term also includes
some small devices designed to produce an audible effect, such as whistling
devices, ground devices containing 50 milligrams or less of explosive
composition, and aerial devices containing 130 milligrams or less of explosive
composition. Propelling or expelling charges consisting of a mixture of
charcoal, sulfur, and potassium nitrate are not considered as designed to
produce an audible effect. CONSUMER FIREWORK includes but may not be limited to
the following:
         (a)   Aerial devices, which include sky rockets, missile type rockets,
helicopter or aerial spinners, roman candles, mines, and shells;
         (b)   Ground audible devices, which include firecrackers, salutes, and
chasers; and
         (c)   Firework devices containing combinations of the effects
described in divisions (1)(a) and (b) above.
      (1)   The following items are specifically excluded from the definition
of CONSUMER FIREWORK:
         (a)   Model rockets;
         (b)   Toy pistol caps;
         (c)   Emergency signal flares;
         (d)   Matches;
         (e)   Fixed ammunition for firearms;
         (f)   Ammunition components intended for use in firearms, muzzle
loading cannons, or small arms;
         (g)   Shells, cartridges, and primers for use in firearms, muzzle
loading cannons, or small arms;
         (h)   Indoor pyrotechnics special effects material; or
         (i)   M-80s, cherry bombs, silver salutes, and any device banned by
the federal government.
      (3)   In addition, the following items are excluded from the definition
of CONSUMER FIREWORKS but are and shall continue to be subject to applicable
permitting requirements and state statutes governing fireworks:
         (a)   Dipped sticks or wire sparklers;
         (b)   Cylindrical fountains;
         (c)   Cone fountains;
         (d)   Illuminating torches;
         (e)   Wheels;
         (f)   Ground spinners;
         (g)   Flitter sparklers;
         (h)   Snakes or glow worms;
         (i)   Smoke devices; and
         (j)   Trick noisemakers, which include:
            1.   Party poppers;
            2.   Booby traps;
            3.   Snappers;
            4.   Trick matches;
            5.   Cigarette loads; and
            6.   Auto burglar alarms.
(Ord. 041513C, passed 4-15-13)
§ 99.02 USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS WITHIN THE CITY.
   It shall be unlawful to use or display or permit to be used or displayed
within Fishers’ municipal boundaries any type of consumer firework on any day
or time other than the following:
   (A)   Between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and two hours after sunset on June 29,
June 30, July 1, July 2, July 3, July 5, July 6, July 7, July 8, and July 9;
   (B)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on July 4; and
   (C)   Between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on
January 1.
(Ord. 041513C, passed 4-15-13; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 99.03 SUPERVISED PUBLIC DISPLAYS.
   This chapter shall not apply to supervised public displays of fireworks by
municipalities, fair associations, amusement parks, and other organizations or
groups of individuals, all of which are and shall continue to be subject to
applicable permitting requirements and state statutes.
(Ord. 041513C, passed 4-15-13)
§ 99.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fishers Department of Fire and Emergency Services and the Fishers Police
Department shall be charged with enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 041513C, passed 4-15-13)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the Fishers Police
Department or Fishers Fire Department. Each violator of the restrictions and
provisions of this chapter shall pay a fine to the city’s Ordinance Violations
Bureau in the sum and amount set forth in §
36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action may be filed by the
City Attorney’s office in the Fishers City Court.
(Ord. 041513C, passed 4-15-13; Am. Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18)
CHAPTER 100: PUBLIC SAFETY NUISANCE
Section
   
100.01   Intent
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Warning notification process
   
100.04   Remediation agreements
   
100.05   Review and designation of chronic violator
   
100.06   Limited appeals of chronic violator designation
   
100.07   Intimidation and retaliation prohibited
   
100.08   Discrimination prohibited
   
100.09   Miscellaneous
 
   
100.99   Penalty
§ 100.01 INTENT.
   (A)   The Common Council finds that excessive calls for service to problem
areas or high activity areas place an undue burden on public safety resources,
which may result in decreased public safety services being provided to other
areas of the city.
   (B)   The regulations set forth in this chapter advance legitimate public
purposes which are designed to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the city. They are further designed to help prevent and assist in
abating repeat calls for service to the same commercial property or location,
which may result in diminished public safety services being provided to other
residents and areas of the city.
   (C)   While fees and penalties are authorized to be imposed and collected
from the owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator of the property designated
as a chronic violator, the intent of the city is to take a proactive,
solutions-oriented approach to abating repeat calls for service to the same
property or location prior to the property being designated as a chronic
violator. All fines and fees imposed, if any, are intended to help cover costs
incurred by the city which are over and above the cost of providing services to
properties not designated as a chronic violator.
   (D)   The intent of this chapter is not to discourage calls to law
enforcement. All individuals who believe they are a victim of a crime or all
individuals needing emergency assistance are always encouraged to call 911.
Instead, this chapter is intended to highlight certain properties or locations
in which excessive calls for service are taking place, to collaborate with
owners, commercial tenants, and/or operators to abate the issues taking place,
and then to hold owners, commercial tenants, and/or operators accountable for
failing to enter into or substantially comply with the remediation agreement as
set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 051523C, passed 6-19-23)
§ 100.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATE. To remedy a condition which constitutes a violation of federal, state
and/or local law which is necessary and in the interest of the general health,
safety, and welfare of the city.
   CALL(S) FOR SERVICE. Any time when a sworn member of the Fishers Police
Department or Fire and Emergency Service Department is dispatched, deployed or
responds to an incident at a specific location, whether or not it results in a
valid complaint or citation.
   CHRONIC VIOLATOR. Unless otherwise defined in this chapter, shall mean a
commercial business property that has, within any 90 day period:
      (1)   Been the subject of 15 or more calls for service; or
      (2)   Been the subject of 15 or more valid complaints; or
      (3)   Been the subject of 15 or more citations; or
      (4)   Been the subject of a combination of calls for service, valid
complaints and/or citations, which together total 15 or more in number.
      (5)   Multiple calls for service, valid complaints and/or citations under
one incident shall only count once towards designation as a chronic violator.
   CITATION. A written notice of violation of ordinance, federal or state law
or penalty issued by the Fishers Police Department or Fishers Fire and
Emergency Service Department requiring payment of a fine.
   CITY. The City of Fishers, Indiana.
   COMMERCIAL BUSINESS PROPERTY. A property used for commercial or industrial
purposes, whether or not such property is zoned commercial or industrial
pursuant to the Fishers Unified Development Ordinance. The term shall
specifically exclude medical facilities, schools, government buildings, and all
portions of a property used for residential purposes.
   COMMERCIAL TENANT. An individual or entity that occupies a rental unit for
commercial purposes with the landlord's consent and for consideration agreed
upon by the landlord and tenant.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a commercial
business property. The term shall include a person who leases property to a
commercial tenant, if such person is not otherwise the owner of said property.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, firm, operator, trust, partnership, limited
liability company, corporation or other individual or legal entity having a
legal or equitable interest in a parcel of property which constitutes a
commercial business property; or recorded in the official records of the state,
county or municipality as holding title to such commercial business property;
or otherwise having control of the  commercial business property, including a
receiver, trustee, conservator or the guardian of the estate of any such
person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court. Service on the
registered agent shall be good service as to the owner.
   PUBLIC SAFETY RESPONSE. Any and all action taken by the Fishers Police
Department and/or Fishers Fire and Emergency Services Department needed to
protect the health, safety and welfare of inhabitants of a property or
location, with such response being subject to the governing rules and
regulations of each department.
   PUBLIC SAFETY TEAM. The Police Chief, the Chief of Fire and Emergency
Services, and the Public Health Director, or their designees, who are
collectively assigned to oversee the administration and implementation of this
chapter.
   REMEDIATION AGREEMENT. A written agreement between an owner, commercial
tenant, and/or operator and the Public Safety Team that outlines actions the
owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator shall take to abate a nuisance or
condition occurring on a commercial business property.
   VALID COMPLAINT(S). A documented call that requires a public safety response
at a commercial business property. If more than one valid complaint occurs
within a 24 hour time period, then each valid complaint is considered a
separate and distinct event except for valid complaints originating from one
incident.
   WARNING NOTIFICATION. A written document sent by the Public Safety Team to
any owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator who has received seven calls for
service, valid complaints and/or citations in a 90 day time period under this
chapter.
(Ord. 051523C, passed 6-19-23)
§ 100.03 WARNING NOTIFICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   The Public Safety Team shall issue a warning notification to the
owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator of a commercial business property
advising said person(s) that at ten calls for service, valid complaints and/or
citations, they will be subject to §
100.04.
   (B)   Such warning notification shall be sent within seven calendar days
after the seventh call for service, valid complaint and/or citation is issued
against owner, commercial tenant and/or operator of the commercial business
property. The warning notification shall be delivered by one of the following
methods: (1) leaving a copy of the warning notification at the commercial
business property address, followed by sending a copy through first class
United States mail; or (2) sending the warning notification by certified mail,
return receipt requested. In the case of a commercial rental property, a copy
of the warning notification shall also be delivered to the owner by personal
service, electronically, or by first class United States mail if such notice
was not already provided to the owner as outlined above.
(Ord. 051523C, passed 6-19-23)
§ 100.04 REMEDIATION AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Once an owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator of a commercial
business property has received a warning notification and has ten calls for
service, valid complaints, and/or citations, the Public Safety Team shall set a
mandatory meeting between the Public Safety Team and the owner, commercial
tenant and/or operator, to occur within 30 days, and shall send notice of the
mandatory meeting to the owner, commercial tenant and/or operator
electronically or by first class United States mail.
   (B)   Failure to appear at the mandatory meeting may subject the owner,
commercial tenant, and/or operator to penalties under §
100.99 and/or having their commercial business property designated as a chronic
violator in accordance with §
100.05.
   (C)   The owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator of a commercial business
property that has received a warning notification and has ten calls for
service, valid complaints and/or citations shall be required to enter into a
remediation agreement with the city, by and through its Public Safety Team.
Such agreement shall:
      (1)   Be in writing and signed by the owner, commercial tenant, and/or
operator of the commercial business property and the Public Safety Team, or its
designee;
      (2)   Set forth reasonable remedial measures, as established by the city,
which must be initiated within 90 calendar days of executing the remediation
agreement, and thereafter establish periodic thresholds and needed corrective
actions which will be monitored by the Public Safety Team;
      (3)   Include proactive measures determined necessary to abate the public
health, safety and welfare violations identified, which may include calls for
service, valid complaints, citations and any other compliance letter or order
that has been issued by any city department; proactive measures may include
inspection of the commercial business property for the purpose of assessing
remedial and proactive measures;
      (4)   Have a term of no more than six months;
      (5)   Be fully executed within 30 days after the notice of mandatory
meeting pursuant to division (A) above was received by the owner, commercial
tenant, and/or operator of the commercial business property; and
      (6)   The owner, commercial tenant and/or operator shall provide reports
of progress toward the remedial and proactive measures contained in the
remediation agreement no less than one time per month during the term of the
remediation agreement.
   (D)   Within ten calendar days after a remediation agreement is executed by
the parties described above, the Public Safety Team shall distribute a copy of
the executed remediation agreement to the owner, commercial tenant and/or
operator of the commercial business property. In the case of a commercial
rental property, the Public Safety Team shall also send a copy of the
remediation agreement to the owner, electronically or by first class United
States mail, if such notice was not already provided to the owner.
   (E)   In the event that the owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator
substantially complies with the remediation agreement, then the commercial
business property shall not be designated as a chronic violator in the event
the commercial business property receives subsequent calls for service,
complaints and/or citations and no additional penalties will be issued under §
100.99 of this chapter, all as further subject to the specific terms of the
remediation agreement.
   (F)   In the event that the owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator fails
or refuses to enter into a remediation agreement or fails to substantially meet
the obligations set forth in the remediation agreement, any subsequent calls
for service, complaints and/or citations will count toward designation of the
commercial business property as a chronic violator. Notice of noncompliance
shall be sent to the owner, commercial tenant and/or operator by the Public
Safety Team electronically or by first class United States mail. In the case of
a commercial rental property, the Public Safety Team shall also send a copy of
the notice of non-compliance to the owner electronically or by first class
United States mail, if such notice was not already provided to the owner.
   (G)   Any new violations of this chapter which are in addition to the items
addressed in the remediation agreement may be pursued by the Legal Department
pursuant to §
100.99.
   (H)   Once the owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator has fully complied
with the remediation agreement, the Public Safety Team shall notify the head of
the Legal Department and the Legal Department shall issue a “notice of
compliance” and release the owner, commercial tenant or operator from the
remediation agreement. The time period and number of calls for service, valid
complaints and/or citations for purposes of this chapter will restart once a
notice of compliance has been issued.
(Ord. 051523C, passed 6-19-23)
§ 100.05 REVIEW AND DESIGNATION OF CHRONIC VIOLATOR.
   (A)   When reviewing documentation to designate a commercial business
property as a chronic violator, the Public Safety Team shall review and verify
the number of documented calls for service, valid complaints and/or citations
in the applicable 90-day period.
   (B)   If the Public Safety Team determines that the commercial business
property has been the subject of 15 or more calls for service, valid complaints
and/or citations within the applicable time period and either (i) the
commercial business property has not entered into a remediation agreement or
(ii) the owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator has failed to substantially
meet the obligations set forth in the remediation agreement, the Public Safety
Team shall designate the commercial business property as a chronic violator.
   (C)   The Public Safety Team shall provide written notice to the owner,
commercial tenant, and/or operator that its commercial business property has
been designated as a chronic violator. In the case of a commercial rental
property, a copy of the written designation shall also be sent to the owner, if
the owner was not the primary intended recipient of the designation. Said
notification shall be delivered by the following methods: (1) leaving a copy of
the notification at the commercial business property address, followed by
sending a copy of the notice through first class United States mail; or (2)
sending notification to the owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator by
certified mail, return receipt requested. This notification shall identify:
      (1)   The owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator and the commercial
business property that has been designated as a chronic violator;
      (2)   The number of calls for service, valid complaints and/or citations
pertaining to said commercial business property in the applicable 90 day
period;
      (3)   The fines, fees and cost(s) which may be incurred if there are any
future calls for service, valid complaints and/or citations pertaining to the
commercial business property along with the language contained in §
100.99;
      (4)   The name, title, and contact information of the Public Safety Team
(or their designee) whom the owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator may
contact if he/she has questions regarding the notification; and
      (5)   The time period which the chronic violator designation will last.
   (D)   Once designated as a chronic violator by the Public Safety Team, the
commercial business property shall remain so designated for six months from the
date of designation. Any commercial business property that has been designated
as a chronic violator shall be subject to the fines and fees set forth in §
100.99 for each call for service, valid complaint and/or citation issued after
designation as a chronic violator.
   (E)   Designation as a chronic violator shall be removed by notice issued to
the chronic violator by the Legal Department upon (i) six months of designation
as a chronic violator and (ii) the full payment of any and all fines and fees
associated with said chronic violator, including any fines or fees that have
been issued under another chapter. The time period and number of calls for
service, valid complaints and/or citations for purposes of this chapter will
restart once a notice under this section has been issued.
(Ord. 051523C, passed 6-19-23)
§ 100.06 LIMITED APPEALS OF CHRONIC VIOLATOR DESIGNATION.
   The City of Fishers Board of Public Works and Safety or an administrative
hearing officer appointed by the City of Fishers Board of Public Works and
Safety is authorized to hear limited appeals from owners, commercial tenants,
and/or operators of commercial business properties that have been designated as
a chronic violator. The appeal shall be filed within ten calendar days of
designation and be limited to the verification of whether said property has
reached the requisite number of calls for service, valid complaints and/or
citations set forth in §
100.05. A hearing before the hearing officer for such limited appeals must be
held within 30 calendar days of the appeal being filed. Written notice of the
date, time and location shall be sent via certified mail to said person of
record. The decision of the hearing officer shall be the final administrative
action for purpose of judicial review.
(Ord. 051523C, passed 6-19-23)
§ 100.07 INTIMIDATION AND RETALIATION PROHIBITED.
   If any person reports to a city employee or agent that he/she believes that
they have been intimidated or threatened by the owner, commercial tenant, and/
or operator of a commercial business property in the city due to filing a
complaint or reporting an alleged violation of this chapter or under federal,
state or local law, the city employee or agent shall encourage the person to
report such alleged intimidation or retaliation to the Fishers Police
Department for further action.
(Ord. 051523C, passed 6-19-23)
§ 100.08 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to encourage or authorize the
discrimination by owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator against any persons
based upon race, creed, religion, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation or
national origin.
(Ord. 051523C, passed 6-19-23)
§ 100.09 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   The regulations set forth in this chapter are supplemental to other
regulations codified in the City of Fishers Municipal Code and are designed to
address chronic violators.
   (B)   If any provision of this chapter or application to any party or
circumstances shall be determined by any court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid and unenforceable to any extent, the remainder of this chapter or the
application of such provision to such person or circumstances, other than those
as to which it is so determined invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected
thereby, and each provision hereof shall be valid and shall be enforced to the
fullest extent permitted by law; provided that, in lieu of such invalid or
unenforceable provision, there will be added to this chapter a provision as
similar to the invalid or unenforceable provision as is possible to reflect the
intent of the city and still be valid and enforceable.
(Ord. 051523C, passed 6-19-23)
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner, commercial tenant, and/or operator violating the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to the following penalties:
      (1)   Citations. After a commercial business property has been designated
as a chronic violator, any subsequent calls for service, valid complaint or
citation at the commercial business property shall result in a fine of $250 to
the owner, commercial tenant or operator given notice under §
100.05 in addition to any other penalty imposed by ordinance.
      (2)   Citations under this section may be issued by the Fishers Police
Department or the Fishers Fire and Emergency Services Department to the owner,
commercial tenant or operator who received noticed under §
100.05 and shall be payable to the Ordinance Violations Bureau.
      (3)   In addition to the collection of fines resulting from the issuance
of citation(s), the Legal Department is authorized to bring civil action
against any alleged violator of this chapter for all unpaid repeat nuisance
service call fees.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties in division (A) above, the city may file
an action in any court of general jurisdiction against the owner, commercial
tenant or operator of the commercial business property to enjoin the activity
giving rise to the calls for service, valid complaint or citation and/or any
other remedy allowed by Indiana law, and to recover the fines, costs and
attorneys’ fees associated with the action, as prescribed in IC 32-30-6-7, as
amended.
   (C)   Each violation of this chapter shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 051523C, passed 6-19-23)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   AMUSEMENTS
      
111.   EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEMS
      
112.   SOLICITATION
      
113.   TAXICABS
      
114.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
115.   BUILDING CONTRACTORS
      
116.   SECONDHAND ENTITIES
      
117.   MOBILE CONCESSIONS
      
118.   TOWING FOR DISABLED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 110: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Coin-Operated Amusement Devices
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Compliance of existing businesses required
   
110.03   License required; fee
   
110.04   License application
   
110.05   Investigation; issuance
   
110.06   Right to hearing if application disapproved or license revoked
   
110.07   Revocation
   
110.08   Maintenance of device required
   
110.09   Location of devices
   
110.10   Maximum number of devices permitted
   
110.11   Replay removal devices; buying back replay
   
110.12   Nuisance; disorderly or offensive use or operation
   
110.13   Use as gambling device prohibited
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any machine or device commercially used,
which, upon the insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate or disc or by the
payment of any price may be operated for use as entertainment or amusement
including, but not limited to, coin-operated pool tables, pinball machines or
electronic game/amusement devices.
   LICENSED PREMISES.  Premises licensed as a club, hotel, or restaurant by the
State Alcoholic Beverage Commission in accordance with IC 7.1-3-20-1 through
7.1-3-20-23.
   SUPPLIER. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or association, which
owns, places, services, bases or distributes any such machines on the premises
of others.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85)
§ 110.02 COMPLIANCE OF EXISTING BUSINESSES REQUIRED.
   Existing businesses with coin-operated devices are instructed to comply with
the provisions of this chapter in all respects.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to display or keep
for operation any coin- operated amusement device as defined in this section,
without first obtaining an amusement license from the city, as herein provided.
Licensees shall be at least 18 years of age and shall be citizens of the United
States.
   (B)   No supplier shall place, keep, install, maintain, operate, service,
lease or distribute any electronic games or amusement devices in any building
or place within the city for use by the public without first having obtained a
license.
   (C)   Every applicant, before being granted a license, shall pay the
following annual license fee for the privilege of operating or maintaining for
operation each coin-operated amusement device as defined in this chapter:
      (1)   Coin-operated pool tables, $60;
      (2)   Electronic games/amusement machines, $60;
      (3)   All other coin-operated amusement devices (such as pinball
machines), $60;
   (D)   Supplier's license fee to place, keep, install, maintain, operate,
service, lease, distribute any electronic games or amusement devices shall be
$400 the first year or part thereof, and $200 annually thereafter payable on or
before January 1 of each calendar year. Supplier's license fee shall be in
addition to other fees herein prescribed.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   The application for a license under this section shall be made in duplicate
to the Clerk or his or her designated representative, upon forms to be supplied
by her for that purpose. The application shall set forth the names and
addresses of the applicant or of a corporation, partnership or association, the
principal officers and registered agent thereof and their addresses, and the
owners of the machines. The application shall state the type of license applied
for, the place where the devices are to be displayed or operated, the business
conducted at that place, a description of the device or devices to be covered
by the license, giving the mechanical features, the name of the manufacturer
and serial number, the employment or business of the applicant during the
previous five years, whether the applicant was ever convicted of a crime and
the records thereof, and the true name of each owner and part owner and each
person who proposes to share in the profits and income from operation of the
coin-operated amusement devices for which the license is sought.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 110.05 INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   One copy of the application for a license under this section shall be
referred to the Police Chief, who shall investigate the location wherein it is
proposed to operate such device or devices, ascertain code and ordinance
violations or potential violations, if any, verify the credibility of the
application, perform appropriate record checks and examinations and refer the
application with related information to the City Council. Based upon the
application and related information, and further upon any additional
information developed by the Council, the application shall be approved or
disapproved.
   (B)   The Director of Community Development or his or her designee shall
inspect each licensed premises, including all wiring and connections to the
devices, to determine if same is safe or complies with the Electrical Code. No
license shall be issued if the premises do not fully comply with the
requirements of the municipal code. Inspections shall be made annually and the
fee for same shall be paid by applicant with license fee.
   (C)   Upon compliance with all necessary conditions by the applicant for a
license under this section, the Clerk shall issue a supplier's license or for
each coin-operated device, an amusement license.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 100798B, passed 10-21-98; Am. Ord.
060412, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 110.06 RIGHT TO HEARING IF APPLICATION DISAPPROVED OR LICENSE REVOKED.
   A public hearing may be requested by applicant/licensee on the disapproval
of an application or the revocation of a license. Upon receipt of such request
for hearing, the City Council shall set a time and date for hearing and give
notice thereof by certified mail to the appealing party posted not less than
ten days prior to the date set for hearing.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 110.07 REVOCATION.
   (A)   If after issuance of license the City Council shall become aware of
facts and circumstances which would have made the licensee ineligible for the
issuance of the original license, the license may be revoked.
   (B)   Every license issued under this chapter is subject to the general
powers of revocation should the licensee, directly or indirectly, violate this
code or state law.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 110.08 MAINTENANCE OF DEVICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall permit a coin-operated amusement device to be
maintained for use or operated or receive coins without discharging them when
they are not in proper working order. The person in charge of, as well as the
owner of such coin-operated amusement devices, shall be responsible for
maintaining or operating or causing to be maintained any such device which is
out of order.
   (B)   A placard shall be placed on every such device in a conspicuous place,
which shall contain the name of the owner and the person in charge of such
device.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 LOCATION OF DEVICES.
   No person shall permit the playing of any coin-operated amusement device
within 700 feet of any public or parochial school or playground, excepting on
licensed premises as defined in §
110.01.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DEVICES PERMITTED.
   Eight games/machines shall be the maximum allowed in any one licensed
premises, excluding juke boxes.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85)
§ 110.11 REPLAY REMOVAL DEVICES; BUYING BACK REPLAY.
   No device to remove replays shall be allowed in conjunction with electronic
games/amusement devices. No person, firm or corporation shall buy back replays.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.12 NUISANCE; DISORDERLY OR OFFENSIVE USE OR OPERATION.
   No person holding a license under this chapter shall permit the coin-
operated amusement device to be operated to constitute a nuisance or to disturb
the peace and quiet of other persons in the vicinity of the premises where they
are operated.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85; Am. Ord. 022091D, passed 3-6-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.13 USE AS GAMBLING DEVICE PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this section shall in any way be construed to authorize, license,
or permit any gambling devices whatsoever or any mechanism that has been
judicially determined to be a gambling device in this state or which is
contrary to law.
(Ord. 030685, passed 5-1-85)
CHAPTER 111: EMERGENCY ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Automatic telephone devices prohibited
   
111.04   Alarm system requirements
Alarm System Permits
   
111.10   Alarm system permit required
   
111.11   Application for permit
   
111.12   Issuance
   
111.13   Permit fee; term
   
111.14   Location of permit
Alarm Business
   
111.20   Licensing of alarm business
   
111.21   Application for license
   
111.22   License fee; term; nontransferable
   
111.23   Revocation of license
   
111.24   Identification cards required
   
111.25   Installation of alarm systems
False Alarms; Enforcement
   
111.30   Number of false alarms permitted during calendar year
   
111.31   Enforcement of violations
   
111.32   Service of notice
   
111.33   Appearance of violator
   
111.34   Multiple offenders; appearance in City Court of violators not desiring
to compromise
   
111.35   Effect of failure to appear
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared to be the purpose of this chapter to reduce the number
of false fire and security alarms activated by private emergency alarm systems.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM COMPANY MONITOR CENTER. A communications center that monitors
emergency alarm systems. When an alarm is activated, the alarm company monitor
center is notified and is responsible for contacting the Hamilton County
Communications Center with details of the active alarm.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any device or assembly of equipment which is designed or
functions to provide an audible, mechanical or electric signal which indicates
an emergency or some other activity that requires urgent attention from
emergency response personnel. Common emergency notifications include but are
not limited to the following: burglar alarm, fire alarm, smoke alarm, medical
emergency, carbon monoxide, panic alarm, or any other emergency event that
makes notification to emergency response personnel. For the purpose of this
chapter an ALARM SYSTEM shall not include:
      (1)   An alarm installed on a motor vehicle; or
      (2)   An alarm installed upon premises occupied by the United States,
State of Indiana, or any political subdivision thereof.
   ALARM USER. Any individual, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity
in ownership or control of an alarm system.
   AUTOMATIC-TELEPHONE DIALING DEVICE. Any device connected to an alarm system
which automatically sends a pre-recorded message or coded signal to a law
enforcement agency or fire department indicating the activation of the alarm
system.
   DUAL AUTHENTICATION. The means by which an alarm company is required to
verify an active alarm. The notification to the alarm company monitor center is
typically the first notification. The alarm company can then verify the alarm
using a second form of authentication which can be accomplished by Enhanced
Call Verification (ECV), on-site audio or video, or other means of
authentication.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE PERSONNEL. Any employee or employees of the Fishers
Police Department or Fishers Fire Department who respond to a summons for
assistance when there is a reasonable belief that the need exists.
   ENHANCED CALL VERIFICATION or ECV. A means by which an alarm company monitor
center can authenticate an alarm, which requires the alarm company monitor
center to make two attempts by telephone to two different phone numbers before
contacting the Hamilton County Communications Center.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm eliciting an emergency response personnel response
when the situation does not require police or fire services. For the purpose of
this chapter, this does not include alarms triggered by severe atmospheric
conditions or other circumstances not reasonably under the control of the alarm
user, installer or maintainer.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The individual, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity to whom an alarm system permit is issued.
   SELF-MONITORED ALARM SYSTEM. Any device or assembly of equipment which is
designated or functions to provide audible or electronic signal which indicates
an emergency or some other activity that requires urgent attention that does
not notify emergency response personnel. The system is designated to only make
notification to owner or operator of the property.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord.
100798B, passed 10-21- 98; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 082117A,
passed 8-21-17)
§ 111.03 AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any automatic
telephone device or attachment which automatically selects any telephone line
leading into the communication center used by the Police Department or Fire
Department and then transmits any pre-recorded message or signal.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to the general
penalties for violating this chapter as contained in §
111.99.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17- 14; Am. Ord. 082117A, passed 8-21-17) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04 ALARM SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Beginning January 1, 2018, all new alarm systems installed in the
corporate limits of Fishers, Indiana will be required to utilize Enhanced Call
Verification (ECV) or other dual authentication procedures.
   (B)   Beginning January 1, 2021, all alarm systems in the corporate limits
of Fishers, Indiana will be required to utilize ECV or other dual
authentication procedures.
   (C)   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to the general
penalties for violating this chapter as set forth in §
111.99.
(Ord. 082117A, passed 8-21-17)
ALARM SYSTEM PERMITS
§ 111.10 ALARM SYSTEM PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an alarm user to operate, cause to be
operated, or permit the operation of an alarm system unless a current alarm
system permit has been obtained from the Fishers Police Department, provided,
however, no permit shall be required for self-monitored alarm system in a
residence if so equipped that any externally sounding alarm is automatically
disconnected within five minutes after activation and emergency response
personnel are not notified and dispatched to the residence. However,
notwithstanding the above, if emergency response personnel are routinely
notified and dispatched to a residence to investigate an activated alarm, an
alarm permit shall be required.
   (B)   Any alarm user at the time this chapter becomes effective shall have
30 days after the effective date of the chapter to apply for an alarm system
permit if one is required by this chapter. Any alarm activation which notifies
emergency response personnel that occurs within 30 days after installation of a
new alarm system shall be exempt.
   (C)   Alarm permit effective dates shall begin upon issuance, and each shall
have a unique date of issue. This date shall be used to calculate false alarms
defined under this chapter. If a permit is not on file, the Police Department
shall use the date of first false alarm to calculate the number of false alarms
within one year, however this does not exempt an alarm user from the alarm
permit requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   An alarm user who violates this section shall be subject to the
penalties for violating this chapter as set forth in §
111.99, unless an alarm permit is obtained within 30 days after receiving
notification of the violation.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord.
082117A, passed 8-21-17) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a permit for the operation of an alarm system shall be made
by any and all alarm users for each alarm system. Such application shall be
made in writing to the Police Department within 30 days following installation
of an alarm system. Applications shall be on a form designated by the Fishers
Police Department for that purpose. The application shall include the following
information:
   (A)   The name, address, telephone number and email address of each person
who owns and/or is in possession or in control of the property;
   (B)   The street address of the property on which the alarm system is to be
installed and operated;
   (C)   Any business name used for the premises on which the alarm system is
to be installed and operated;
   (D)   The name of the person or alarm system business who will install the
alarm system; and
   (E)   The names and telephone numbers of two representatives who are able to
and have agreed:
      (1)   To receive notification at any time;
      (2)   To come to the alarm site within 30 minutes after receiving a
request from emergency response personnel to do so; and
      (3)   To grant access to the alarm site and to deactivate the alarm
system if such becomes necessary.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord. 040212,
passed 4-2-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 082117A, passed 8-
21-17)
§ 111.12 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Police Department shall issue an alarm system permit to the alarm
user upon submission of an application in accordance with this section unless
the Police Department finds that any statement made in the application was
incomplete or false.
   (B)   All information on such application shall be protected as confidential
information, provided, however, nothing in this section shall prohibit the use
of such information for legitimate law enforcement purposes and for enforcement
of this chapter.
   (C)   The permit holder shall promptly notify the Police Department in
writing of any change in the information contained in the permit application.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord.
082117A, passed 8-21-17)
§ 111.13 PERMIT FEE; TERM.
   (A)   The fee for an alarm system permit shall be $30.
   (B)   An alarm system permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid
for a term of three years commencing from the date of issuance.
   (C)   An alarm system permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be
transferred by the permit holder to a subsequent owner or entity in possession
or control of the specific property or location for which the permit was
originally issued but is not transferable between properties or locations. The
new owner shall contact the Police Department to update permit information.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord.
082117A, passed 8-21-17)
§ 111.14 LOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The permit holder for an alarm system shall keep such permit at the alarm
site in a location which is visible to any law enforcement official who
responds to an alarm.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91) Penalty, see §
111.99
ALARM BUSINESS
§ 111.20 LICENSING OF ALARM BUSINESS.
   (A)   Prior to doing business within the city, an alarm system business
shall obtain a license from the Police Department.
   (B)   An alarm business doing business at the time this chapter becomes
effective shall have 30 days to apply for a license as required above.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   All applications for a license required by this chapter shall be made
on forms designated by the Police Department and shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The full name and address of the alarm business;
      (2)   The full name, business address and home address of the manager;
      (3)   A telephone number at which the Police Chief or Fire Chief can
notify personnel of the alarm business of a need for assistance at any time;
      (4)   The names, addresses and dates of birth of all alarm agents
employed by the alarm business;
   (B)   An alarm business shall promptly notify the Police Department in
writing of any change in the information contained in the registration form.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord. 040212,
passed 4-2-12) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 LICENSE FEE; TERM; NONTRANSFERABLE.
   (A)   An alarm business license shall be valid for one year from the date of
issuance.
   (B)   The annual license fee for each alarm business shall be $150.
   (C)   An alarm business license shall be personal to the holder and is not
transferable.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91)
§ 111.23 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   An alarm business license issued pursuant to this chapter may be suspended
or revoked pursuant to the conditions and procedures established by §
111.99 of this chapter.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91)
§ 111.24 IDENTIFICATION CARDS REQUIRED.
   Every alarm agent shall carry on his person at all times while engaged in
the alarm business an identification card which shall be displayed to any law
enforcement officer or fire department officer upon request.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91)
§ 111.25 INSTALLATION OF ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Any alarm business which installs an alarm system within the city
shall provide the following information on a form designated by the city:
      (1)   The address where such system is installed;
      (2)   The name and address of the person having control over the
property;
      (3)   The type of alarm system.
   (B)   Such form shall be submitted to the Police Chief not earlier than 20
days prior to the installation of such system and not later than 48 hours after
such system is installed. Such information shall be protected as confidential
information and its use shall be restricted to legitimate law enforcement
purposes and to enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord. 040212,
passed 4-2-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
FALSE ALARMS; ENFORCEMENT
§ 111.30 NUMBER OF FALSE ALARMS PERMITTED DURING CALENDAR YEAR.
   It shall be unlawful for an alarm user to issue, cause to be issued or
permit the issuance of more than three false alarms in a one year period.
Provided, however, this section shall not apply to an alarm system which emits
a false alarm within 30 days after installation of the alarm system.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord.
121806B, passed 1-16- 07; Am. Ord. 121068, passed - -07; Am. Ord. 040212,
passed 4-2-12; Am. Ord. 082117A, passed 8-21-17) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.31 ENFORCEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   If an alarm user has more than three false alarms within a one year period,
the alarm user shall be in violation of this section, and the Chief of Police,
or his designee, shall issue a written notice of violation subject to the
penalties set forth in §
111.99.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord. 040212,
passed 4-2-12; Am. Ord. 082117A, passed 8-21-17)
§ 111.32 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   All notices of violations, as required to be served by this chapter,
shall be executed by the law enforcement officer or other authorized person. A
copy shall be served upon the alarm user by U.S. certified mail, personal
delivery or by posting a copy of the notice of violation on the property where
the alarm system is installed.
   (B)   All notices provided for in this chapter shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The specific violation with which the violator is charged;
      (2)   The date and time of the violation; and
      (3)   The current number of the violation.
   (C)   The copy of the notice served upon the violator or his or her
representative, or the owner of the premises, shall also state that the
violator or such other person shall appear in person or by attorney or agent,
or by mail, at the office of the Ordinance Violations Bureau to plead guilty or
not guilty within 15 days of the hour of 12:00 noon of the date of the
violation appearing upon the notice. However, if the period of 15 days shall
expire upon a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the period of time in which the
violator must appear shall be extended to the next business day. A violator may
plead guilty and pay his or her fine within 15 days of the mailing of a copy of
the notice of the violation by mailing a copy of his or her citation and
appropriate payment by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the Ordinance
Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord.
121806B, passed 1-16- 07; Am. Ord. 121068, passed - -07; Am. Ord. 082117A,
passed 8-21-17)
§ 111.33 APPEARANCE OF VIOLATOR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person who receives a notice of a
violation, served pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, to appear in
person or by attorney or agent at the office of the Ordinance Violations Bureau
if he or she desires to take advantage of the privilege of compromising the
offense.
   (B)   Any person who has received such a notice of violation and who has
been guilty of four or more violations of §
111.30 during the calendar year, either by his or her own admission or by
conviction thereof, may so appear in person or by attorney or agent during the
period of time allowed to appear pursuant to the notice served under this
chapter, and admit liability for the offense charged in the notice and tender
payment of the penalty specified in this chapter, together with any costs
required by law.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord.
121806B, passed 1-16-07; Am. Ord. 121068, passed - -07; Am. Ord. 040212, passed
4-2-12)
§ 111.34 MULTIPLE OFFENDERS; APPEARANCE IN CITY COURT OF VIOLATORS NOT DESIRING
TO COMPROMISE.
   (A)   Any person receiving a notice of a violation pursuant to this chapter
may appear at the Ordinance Violations Bureau and pay the fine indicated on the
notice or deny the fine and contest the matter in City Court.
   (B)   In the event a person appearing at the Ordinance Violations Bureau
denies a notice of violation, the Bureau shall cause the matter to be docketed
with the Clerk of the City Court. The case shall then proceed according to the
rules and procedures of the City Court pertaining to ordinance violations.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord.
121806B, passed 1-16-07; Am. Ord. 121068, passed - -07; Am. Ord. 040212, passed
4-2-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 111.35 EFFECT OF FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   Upon the failure or refusal of any person receiving a notice of any
violation under this chapter to appear as provided in this chapter and report
to the Ordinance Violations Bureau or to compromise the violation if appearing,
it shall be the duty of the Clerk of the City Court to report such fact to the
Corporation Counsel or his or her designee and to the law enforcement officer
who signed the notice to appear, and to furnish the Chief of Police with all
necessary information to prepare a proper affidavit and complaint, together
with the correct name and address of the violator, if known or ascertainable.
Proceedings in the City Court against such violator shall thereupon be brought
in the manner provided by statute or as hereafter may be provided and, upon
conviction of the offense charged and in lieu of the sums prescribed by any
such compromise, the penalties provided for general violations of this chapter
may be assessed for each such offense, together with all court costs and fees.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord.
121806B, passed 1-16-07; Am. Ord. 121068, passed - -07; Am. Ord. 040212, passed
4-2-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the Fishers Police
Department or Fishers Fire Department. Each violator of the restrictions and
provisions of this chapter shall pay a fine to the city’s Ordinance Violations
Bureau in the sum and amount set forth in §
36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action may be filed by the
City Attorney’s office in the Fishers City Court.
(Ord. 070589A, passed 7-5-89; Am. Ord. 010991A, passed 1-9-91; Am. Ord.
121806B, passed 1-16- 07; Am. Ord. 121068, passed - -07; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 082117A, passed 8-21-17; Am. Ord. 111918D, passed 11-
19-18)
CHAPTER 112: SOLICITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   No soliciting signs or stickers or other means of notification
   
112.02   Enforcement
Door-to-Door Solicitation
   
112.10   Definitions
   
112.11   Application, licensing, fees
   
112.12   Restrictions on license/door-to-door solicitation
   
112.13   License revocation or denial
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 NO SOLICITING SIGNS OR STICKERS OR OTHER MEANS OF NOTIFICATION.
   The Fishers Police Department is hereby directed to obtain a supply of "No
soliciting" signs or stickers or other means of notification for free
distribution to any resident of the city upon the request of such citizen.
(Ord. 071502, passed 7-15-02; Am. Ord. 050510, passed 5-5-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 112.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Fishers Police Department is urged to provided prompt response to any
call for assistance to a resident upon whose private property a trespass has
occurred after warning by sign or other notification reasonably intended to
advise a person or persons to remove themselves from such private property.
(Ord. 071502, passed 7-15-02)
DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION
§ 112.10 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever used in this subchapter, the following words and phrases shall be
defined as herein stated below:
   DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION. Shall include all methods and means of soliciting
funds and/or of selling commercial products, services or property within the
corporate limits of the City of Fishers, by and through the uninvited in-person
solicitation of city residents on private property.
   EXEMPT PERSONS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   An individual while and to the extent he or she is engaged in
protected political speech or activity;
      (2)   An individual while and to the extent he or she is engaged in
protected religious speech or activity;
      (3)   An individual engaged in the solicitation of funds and/or the sale
of cookies, candies, paper products or similar sundries for and on behalf of a
not-for-profit or nonprofit organization or association that is exempt from the
Indiana Gross Retail Tax;
      (4)   An individual who, due to the preemption of applicable federal or
state law, is exempt from local licensing requirements.
   VENDOR. A person, partnership, corporation, company, organization or entity
who is not an exempt person and who is engaged in the selling, peddling,
merchandising or brokering of products, services or property to the general
public for a commercial purpose and/or who is engaged in the solicitation of
funds.
(Ord. 060208, passed 6-2-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 112.11 APPLICATION, LICENSING, FEES.
   (A)   Any vendor who desires to engage in door-to-door solicitation shall
first obtain from the Police Department a non-transferable door-to-door
solicitation license (“license”) permitting such activity by vendor and/or by
vendor’s employees and agents.
   (B)   If the vendor intends to sell or offers to sell any type of food or
beverage, the Police Department shall refer the application to the Hamilton
County Health Department for review and recommendation. The review shall
include an inspection of all refrigeration equipment to be used by the vendor
and shall insure that minimum sanitation requirements established by state and
local law are met.
   (C)   The Police Department shall provide to any person, upon request, a
door-to-door vendor application form (“application”) to be completed by a
vendor and submitted to the Police Department for review and approval by the
Chief of Police, or his designee. The application shall require the following:
      (1)   General information about the vendor, vendor’s business and the
nature of vendor’s proposed door-to-door solicitation. The applicant shall
state relevant information about the vendor’s company such as: date of
incorporation; state of incorporation and if the corporation is formed outside
of the State of Indiana; the date on which such corporation was qualified to
transact business as a foreign corporation in Indiana.
      (2)   Each employee and agent involved in door-to-door solicitation,
pursuant to a license issued to the vendor under this section, to provide a
valid government issued photo ID and a signed release authorizing the Police
Department to run a nationwide criminal history report. Juvenile employees and
agents are also required to provide a copy of a work permit issued by the State
of Indiana. If any vendor, its employee or agent who is named in the
application has a criminal arrest record, the Chief of Police may require the
vendor, employee or agent to deliver an official copy of any records related to
the arrest and/or conviction, and may include other documents, such as a police
report, court records, or protection order.
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the contact person who
will respond to consumer complaints who shall be available for a period of time
not less than 60 days following the last date that the vendors sells or offers
goods, wares, merchandise, food, services or subscriptions in the city.
      (4)   An application fee, as determined by the Chief of Police, or his or
her designee.
      (5)   A license fee, in accordance with §
112.11(F).
   (D)   If, while any application is pending, or during the term of any
license granted thereon, there is any substantial change in fact, policy or
method that would materially alter the information given in the application,
the applicant shall notify the Police Department, in writing, of the change
within 72 hours after such change. If the applicant or licensee fails to so
notify the Police Department, any license issued to the applicant or vendor
shall be suspended pursuant to §
112.13.
   (E)   A license and a non-transferable identification card shall be issued
to a vendor by the Police Department upon such vendor’s completion of an
application, confirmation that such vendor and all employees and agents who
will be involved in door-to-door solicitation have no felony or misdemeanor
conviction within 15 years of the application date for a crime of, fraud,
theft, burglary, robbery, and/or any other crime against another person, and
such vendor has paid a license fee as set forth in §
112.11(F).
   (F)   The vendor shall pay the Police Department license fee of:
 
10 day license  $50
120 day license $150
1 year license  $300
 
      for each employee and agent involved with door-to-door solicitation
listed on the application. The fee shall not be returned or refunded upon
denial of employee or agent, and all such monies shall be deemed forfeited.
   (G)   The decision as to whether an application is approved or denied shall
be made by the Chief of Police, or his designee, within 20 days from the date
the application is submitted to the Police Department for processing.
   (H)   Vendor, and each of vendor’s employees and agents, shall openly
display upon his or her person an identification card issued by the Police
Department whenever engaging in door-to-door solicitation.
(Ord. 060208, passed 6-2-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
082117B, passed 8-21-17) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE/DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Door-to-door solicitation by vendors may be conducted between the
following hours:
      (1)   October 1 through April 30 - between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of
any day.
      (2)   May 1 through September 30 - between 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. of
any day.
   (B)   Subject to earlier revocation, pursuant to this section, a license, as
well as any identification card(s) issued therewith, shall be valid for exactly
ten or 120 days, as applicable, from the date the license or identification
card was issued, and shall thereafter immediately expire and become null and
void.
   (C)   Vendor, and vendor's employees and agents, shall comply with all
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations while engaging in
door-to-door solicitation.
   (D)   Unlawful to solicit on posted premises. It is unlawful for any vendor
to ring the bell, or knock on the door, or otherwise attempt to gain admittance
for the purpose of peddling or soliciting at any residence, dwelling or place
of business at which a sign bearing the words "No Solicitors" (or words of
similar import indicating that solicitors are not wanted on said premises) is
painted, affixed, or otherwise exposed to public view; provided, that this
section shall not apply to any peddler or solicitor who rings the bell, knocks
on the door, or otherwise attempts to gain admittance to such residence or
dwelling at the invitation or with the consent of the occupant thereof.
(Ord. 060208, passed 6-2-08) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 LICENSE REVOCATION OR DENIAL.
   (A)   If the Chief of Police or his or her designee, determines that one or
more of the following apply to a vendor and/or to any employee or agent of
vendor who applies for a license or who is involved in door-to-door
solicitation, then the Chief of Police shall deny the application and/or revoke
an issued license and/or identification card(s) relating thereto, whichever
action is applicable under the circumstances:
      (1)   Vendor submitted an application that contains materially false or
misleading information;
      (2)   Vendor or any of vendor’s employees or agents was, within 15 years
prior to the date of vendor’s application, convicted of a felony or misdemeanor
crime of, fraud, theft, burglary, robbery, and/or any other crime against
another person;
      (3)   Vendor or any of vendor’s employees or agents has violated this
section or has been charged with or convicted of a felony or misdemeanor crime
of, fraud, theft, burglary, robbery, and/or any other crime against another
person after the issuance of but prior to the expiration date of such person’s
license and/or identification card;
      (4)   Vendor or any of vendor’s employees or agents has failed to
properly display his/her identification card while engaged in door-to-door
solicitation; or
      (5)   Two or more written and verified complaints have been delivered to
the Police Department regarding allegedly untruthful or illegal conduct
concerning vendor or vendor’s employees or agents during his/her door-to-door
solicitation.
   (B)   All license and/or identification card denials/revocations shall be in
writing, shall state thereon the effective date of the denial/revocation and
the reason for same, and shall be served by U.S. certified mail or by personal
service on vendor. A copy of the report used for denial will be provided to the
affected person upon request.
   (C)   Any vendor, within 20 days from the date on which notice of such
license and/or identification card denial or revocation notice is served
thereon, may by written request made and delivered to the Chief of Police, or
his designee, within such time period, appeal such action to the Metropolitan
Police Commission (“Commission”). If a timely appeal is not made, the decision
of the Chief of Police is final. If a timely appeal is made, the Commission
shall hear the appeal at a public hearing which shall begin no more than 20
days from the date of the receipt of the appeal request by the Chief of Police.
The Commission shall issue its written decision on the appeal no more than ten
days from the ending date of the hearing thereon, which Commission decision
shall be final.
   (D)   No application, license or identification card fees shall be returned
or refunded upon the revocation of a license and/or identification card issued
pursuant to this section, all such monies being deemed forfeited.
(Ord. 060208, passed 6-2-08; Am. Ord. 082117B, passed 8-21-17)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the Fishers
Police Department. Each violator of the restrictions and provisions of this
chapter shall pay a fine to the city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau in the sum
and amount set forth in §
36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action may be filed by the
City Attorney’s office in the Fishers City Court.
   (B)   The city may seek a temporary and/or permanent restraining order
against any vendor and/or any employee or agent thereof in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   The city’s remedies hereunder shall be cumulative and pursuit of one
remedy shall not preclude the pursuit of others under this section or
otherwise.
(Ord. 060208, passed 6-2-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
082117B, passed 8-21-17; Am. Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18)
CHAPTER 113: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Purpose of chapter
   
113.02   Consumer complaints; hearings
   
113.03   Definitions
License Required
   
113.10   License required
   
113.11   License; availability
   
113.12   Issuance of license; expiration; renewal; removal
   
113.13   Public meeting review
   
113.14   (Reserved)
   
113.15   Information provided to Controller
   
113.16   Insurance required
   
113.17   Licenses issued under prior ordinances
Taxicab Licenses
   
113.20   License required
   
113.21   Information required
   
113.22   Display of license
   
113.23   (Reserved)
   
113.24   License fee
   
113.25   Temporary operation of taxicabs without license
Standards of Operation
   
113.30   Taxicab drivers to be licensed
   
113.31   Duties of drivers to passengers
   
113.32   Record of calls
   
113.33   Taximeters; schedule of rates
   
113.34   Lost and found articles
   
113.35   Taxicab stands
   
113.36   Operation area; reciprocity
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of preventing the unsafe operation
of public vehicles for hire and for the purpose of preventing unconscionable
pricing and customer service practices in the operation of public vehicles for
hire. For purposes of this chapter, all such vehicles shall be referred to as
taxicabs.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.02 CONSUMER COMPLAINTS; HEARINGS.
   Pursuant to IC 36-4-5-5, the Mayor shall have the power to hear complaints
against any holder of a taxicab's license. Complaints shall be in writing and
filed with the Controller, who shall forward the same to the Mayor for action.
Proceedings under this section shall thereafter be conducted in accordance with
IC 36-4-5-5.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle:
         (a)   Designed and constructed to accommodate and transport
passengers;
         (b)   That does not operate over any definite and designated route
within the corporate boundaries of Fishers;
         (c)   The destination of which is designated by the passenger or
passengers at the time of transport; and
         (d)   The services of which are held out to the public for hire.
      (2)   The following shall not be considered TAXICABS for purposes of this
chapter:
         (a)   Motor vehicles designed for transportation of sick, injured, or
disabled persons;
         (b)   A hearse used by funeral directors as part of their general
employment; or
         (c)   Motor vehicles owned by private, governmental or charitable
organizations to transport their members or mentally or physically disabled
persons without compensation for that transportation.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
LICENSE REQUIRED
§ 113.10 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or cause to be operated a
taxicab within the city unless the owner of the vehicle or vehicles holds a
license issued pursuant to this chapter, except as provided in §
113.17.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall hold more than one license for
the organization; however, each individual employee operating a taxicab within
the city must be registered and listed on the license.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 LICENSE; AVAILABILITY.
   Any person desiring to operate a taxicab within the city shall apply to the
Controller for issuance of a taxicab license. Upon receipt of an application
for a taxicab license, the Controller shall submit the application to the City
Council, and the matter shall appear as an agenda item at a regularly scheduled
Council meeting.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.12 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION; RENEWAL; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Following a favorable decision on an application for a taxicab license
under §
113.11, the Controller shall issue a taxicab license to the applicant. The
license shall authorize the holder to operate a taxicab service within the city
pursuant to the terms of this chapter and to apply for not more than 30 taxicab
driver registrations to be listed and filed as part of the license.
   (B)   A taxicab license issued on or after January 1,2015, shall be valid
for five years unless sooner revoked by the Mayor pursuant to IC 36-4-5-5.
   (C)   Licenses shall be renewable at the option of the City Council.
Applications for renewal shall be submitted to the Controller not less than 30
days prior to expiration. The renewal application shall then be submitted to
the Council in a public meeting for review and consideration. Renewal licenses
shall be granted upon the same terms and conditions as the original license.
   (D)   The city may revoke the license of any taxicab operator found not in
compliance with this chapter or city ordinances.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.13 PUBLIC MEETING REVIEW.
   To obtain a license, the applicant shall demonstrate to the Council at a
public meeting that the applicant and its employees are qualified by training,
experience, and financial condition to operate a taxicab service within the
city.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.14 (RESERVED).
§ 113.15 INFORMATION PROVIDED TO CONTROLLER.
   Prior to issuance of a taxicab license, an applicant shall submit to the
Controller the following information:
   (A)   The number of taxicabs to be licensed and operated;
   (B)   The insignia, identifying name, and color scheme to be used on the
applicant's taxicabs;
   (C)   A financial statement concerning the applicant;
   (D)   The name, address, copy of the driver's license of every driver
operating a taxicab under the requested license and a certification that the
applicant, if an individual, or the partners, if applicant is a partnership, or
the principals of the corporation, if applicant is a corporation including all
drivers, has never been convicted of a felony, operated a motor vehicle while
intoxicated, or been convicted of reckless driving;
   (E)   A full transcript of the information appearing on the certificate of
title of each vehicle used as a taxicab, and the state license plate number of
each such vehicle;
   (F)   Proof that the taxicab company has been registered with the Indiana
Secretary of State as a legal business authorized to operate in the State of
Indiana;
   (G)   A certificate from a reputable mechanic's shop that the vehicle used
as a taxicab is roadworthy and safe for operation as a taxicab. Taxicabs must
be re-inspected every three years and the inspection records filed in the
Controller's Office; and
   (H)   A certificate affirming that the applicant will release, hold harmless
and indemnify the city for losses associated with or arising out of the use of
the taxi, including claims that may be made by third parties against the city.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.16 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every holder of a taxicab license under this chapter shall provide the
Controller with a certificate of insurance in the following amounts:
      (1)   $500,000 per accident for accidental injury or death;
      (2)   $500,000 per person for accidental injury or death; and
      (3)   $100,000 for property damage.
   (B)   The certificate of insurance shall provide that the city shall receive
notice not less than 30 days prior to cancellation. Failure to comply with this
section shall be cause for immediate revocation of the owner's taxicab license.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.17 LICENSES ISSUED UNDER PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   Any holder of a taxicab license issued under a prior ordinance of the city
shall be deemed to hold a non-transferable license under this chapter that
expires upon the terms issued, except that the license may be revoked pursuant
to this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
TAXICAB LICENSES
§ 113.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No taxicab shall be operated within the city unless the owner obtains a
taxicab license issued by the Controller pursuant to all regulations of this
chapter.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.21 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   No vehicle shall be licensed as a taxicab unless all information pertaining
to the vehicle required by § 11 3.15 of this chapter is on file with the
Controller. If at any time the information provided in accordance with §
113.15 changes, the holder of the taxicab license shall submit the revised
information to the Controller's Office in writing within 30 days.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.22 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every taxicab shall display a copy of its license in a prominent place
inside the vehicle.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.23 (RESERVED).
§ 113.24 LICENSE FEE.
   There is hereby imposed an administrative taxicab licensing fee of $250
which fee shall be due and paid upon issuance of the five- year license.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.25 TEMPORARY OPERATION OF TAXICABS WITHOUT LICENSE.
   (A)   The holder of a valid taxicab license may place in service additional
taxicabs not regularly licensed in the event of inclement weather, special
events, or other circumstances indicating a need for more taxicabs on a
temporary basis not to exceed five days.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed, for each such vehicle placed in service, a
daily license fee of $5, per day.
   (C)   The owner of a taxicab service shall:
      (1)   Notify the Controller of the use of temporary taxicabs and the
dates of such use; and
      (2)   Pay the applicable daily fee prior to providing taxicab services.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
0901514A, passed 11-17-14)
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 113.30 TAXICAB DRIVERS TO BE LICENSED.
   Persons operating a taxicab within the city shall hold a valid, current
Public Chauffeur's License issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the State
of Indiana.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.31 DUTIES OF DRIVERS TO PASSENGERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab driver to willfully fail or
refuse to respond promptly to a call for service anywhere within the city and
at any time he is on duty; or to willfully refuse to accept and convey any
person who applies to him for carriage and who pays or tenders the fare
authorized by this chapter, and his traveling baggage not exceeding 70 pounds
in weight, to the place of his designation anywhere within the city; or who,
having agreed and undertaken to pick up and convey any passenger for the full
distance to any destination either within or outside the city refuses or
neglects to do so; provided, however, that the passenger shall be in such known
or visible condition of sobriety, health and cleanliness that his carriage in
such taxicab will not be a violation of any law or ordinance of the city, rule
of the Hamilton County Health Department or any state law, and provided that
the destination can be reached over available used routes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab driver to refuse to accept or to
convey to his destination within the city any person who applies to him for
carriage and who pays or tenders the fare authorized by this chapter, solely on
account of the race, color, creed or station in life of the person desiring
carriage.
   (C)   No driver shall charge or attempt to charge any passenger a greater
rate of fare than is authorized by this chapter, either for a distance or time
charge. Every driver shall use the shortest available and practical route on
all trips on a mileage basis.
   (D)   No taxicab driver shall willingly permit his taxicab or his services
to be used by anyone for any immoral or unlawful purpose, to aid or abet any
person in such use or to offend in any such manner any passenger.
   (E)   No taxicab driver shall permit any person to ride, except inside the
taxicab, or to carry more persons over six years of age than can be seated on
the seats of the taxicab.
   (F)   All passengers, where possible to do so, shall be picked up and
discharged only on the right-hand side of the highway at a place adjacent to
the travelled roadway and as close as practicable to the place directed by the
passenger.
   (G)   All drivers shall observe and comply with all statutes, ordinances,
rules and regulations of the city and state, and shall treat all passengers and
other persons with courtesy and respect, and protect such persons from harm.
   (H)   Upon request of any passenger, the driver shall give such passenger
his correct name, and his employer's correct name and telephone number.
   (I)   No taxicab driver shall be under the influence of alcohol or drugs
while operating any taxicab.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.32 RECORD OF CALLS.
   All taxicab drivers shall keep and file with the owner a daily record of all
calls made, passengers transported, and the times and places of pick-up and
delivery. Such record shall be kept by the owner for a period of two years, and
shall be open to inspection by any police officer upon request.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.33 TAXIMETERS; SCHEDULE OF RATES.
   (A)   All taxicabs shall be equipped with taximeters which are designed to
accurately record time, distance traveled and fare to be charged. All such
devices shall be kept by the owner in good working order, and shall be subject
to inspection by the Chief of Police or his designated representative at any
time. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab knowing that the
taximeter is inaccurate in any of its functions.
   (B)   No person owning, operating, or controlling a taxicab shall charge
other than the schedule of rates at the time authorized by ordinance. A
schedule of rates shall be posted in plain view of passengers in each taxicab
at all times.
   (C)   If more than one person occupies or engages a taxicab for a common
route or destination, or by time, the operator may make a charge of $.50 for
each extra person who has attained the age of two years. No person operating a
taxicab shall carry any other passenger after the taxicab has been engaged or
occupied by a passenger, without obtaining the consent of the prior passenger,
except as provided in division (I) hereof.
   (D)   When a taxicab arrives at the place to which it has been called by a
passenger, the driver shall give notice of his arrival to such person and for
the first three minutes following notice there shall be no time charge for
waiting, but for any waiting time thereafter, either at the place of call or en
route to the passenger's destination, the waiting charge authorized by the
current schedule shall be paid. However, no waiting time shall be charged in
any case where it is caused by the premature arrival of the driver at the place
of call, or where delays occur en route due to the condition of the taxicab or
the driver.
   (E)   No person who requests and receives transportation in any taxicab
shall fail or refuse to pay the proper fare or charge authorized by this
section.
   (F)   If demanded by the passenger, the driver of a taxicab shall deliver to
the passenger at the time of payment a signed receipt on a form showing the
driver's name and taxicab number, together with the distance or time, or both,
for which the charge is made, the total amount paid and by whom, and the date
of payment.
   (G)   The charge for taxicab services shall be filed in the office of the
Controller and shall be available for public inspection during regular business
hours. Any change proposed shall not take effect until at least a two-week
public notice has been given of said proposed change by posting and publication
in accordance with IC 5-3-1, as amended. Such notice shall additionally inform
the public of their right to file written opposition to said fare increase with
the Controller, who may submit the matter to the city the Council for review.
   (H)   Each passenger shall be permitted to carry in the vehicle with him/her
his/her personal baggage weighing not over 70 pounds without extra charge.
   (I)   (1)   A SHARE RIDE means the use of a taxicab to transport persons or
property with different points of embarkation or disembarkation at the same or
at overlapping times. Each person or group of persons, or articles or group of
articles transported from one point of embarkation to one point of
disembarkation shall be called a TRIP SEGMENT. The aggregate of trip segments
over the time period from the beginning of the first trip segment to the end of
the last trip segment shall be an ENTIRE TRIP.
      (2)   A taxicab may engage in a share ride during a particular entire
trip under the following provisions:
         (a)   If the taxicab is equipped with a taxi meter capable of
accounting for each trip segment on a varying rate schedule, as herein below
provided;
         (b)   The first embarking passenger(s) give permission for the taxicab
driver to engage in share riding;
         (c)   The entire trip does not deviate more than two city blocks from
the route engaged by the first embarking passenger(s);
         (d)   The rate applied to each and every trip segment at any one time
shall be the rate provided in division (G) of this section reduced by 15% for
each trip segment in excess of one for which the taxicab is being used at any
one time; and
         (e)   The additional passenger charge contained in division (C) of
this section shall not apply to share rides except that said charge may be
required of an extra passenger (above one) for each trip segment.
      (3)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, a taxicab
may carry several passengers, but not more than authorized by §
113.31(E), to a single destination under a weekly, bi-weekly, monthly or annual
flat rate arrangement, regardless of whether their points of embarkation are
the same, if the flat fare rate per ride does not exceed what the individual
meter rate for the same ride would be.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.34 LOST AND FOUND ARTICLES.
   (A)   Property left in taxicabs shall be held by the owner of the taxicab at
his principal office for a period of 30 days, and if unclaimed, may be disposed
of as the owner shall determine appropriate, except as provided in division
(B).
   (B)   Items of obvious value left in taxicabs shall be held for a period of
60 days prior to disposal, and the Police Department shall be notified of the
recovery of such items from a taxicab.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.35 TAXICAB STANDS.
   The Public Works and Safety Board may from time to time designate parking
spaces at various places within the city as taxicab stands, and may restrict or
prohibit the use of such stands by other vehicles.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.36 OPERATION AREA; RECIPROCITY.
   (A)   Taxicabs licensed under this chapter shall be entitled to pick up
passengers at any place within the city, and to the extent permitted by other
appropriate governing bodies, at any other point within Hamilton and Boone
Counties, at the Indianapolis International Airport, provided the passenger has
a destination within the city, at any other place in Marion County north of
62nd Street, provided the passenger has a destination within the city.
   (B)   To the extent that any other municipality allows taxicabs licensed
under this chapter to pick up fares within its boundaries, taxicabs licensed
under an ordinance of such municipality may pick up passengers within the
limits of the city, but not otherwise.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a class C
infraction.
(Ord. 08-20-84, passed 10-1-84; Am. Ord. 062090C, passed 6-20-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
114.01   Adoption of cable regulations
   
114.02   Definition
§ 114.01 ADOPTION OF CABLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council previously adopted the rules and regulations set
forth by the Federal Communications Commission pursuant to Section 623(b) of
the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 U.S.C.
543(b)) for the review of the basic service tier of cable television services
and equipment necessary for the provision of such service tier.
   (B)   Existing contracts by and between the Town of Fishers and cable
television operators shall continue, subject to IC 8-1-1 et. seq. and
applicable Federal Communication Commission regulations, as amended. However,
pursuant to Indiana's 2006 adoption of laws authorizing the Indiana Utility
Regulatory Commission to govern cable television operators, §§ 114.03 to 114.11
of this chapter are hereby repealed pursuant to IC 8-1-1 et. seq.
(Ord. 110393B, passed 11-3-93; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 114.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC SERVICE TIER OF CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES. A separately available
service tier to which subscription is required for access to any other tier of
service, including as a minimum, but not limited to, all signals of domestic
television broadcast stations provided to any subscriber, (except a signal
secondarily transmitted by satellite carrier beyond the local service area of
such station, regardless of how such signal is ultimately received by the cable
system) any public, educational and governmental programming required by the
franchise to be carried on the basic tier, and any additional video programming
signals or service added to the basic tier by the cable operator. Equipment
necessary to provide said basic tier of service shall be defined as those items
of associated equipment necessary for the reception of basic cable service by a
subscriber, including, but not limited to converter boxes, remote control
units, additional outlets and installations.
(Ord. 110393B, passed 11-3-93)
CHAPTER 115: BUILDING CONTRACTORS
Section
   
115.01   Registration requirements
   
115.02   Term of registration
   
115.03   Fee for registration
   
115.04   Exceptions
   
115.05   City assumes no liability
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   This chapter does hereby establish registration requirements for
contractors seeking to perform work on residences and businesses located in the
City of Fishers. To become a registered contractor with the City of Fishers,
the applicant must complete a contractor registration application and must also
provide the following.
   (B)   General liability insurance certificate.
      (1)   Must have a certificate of insurance.
      (2)   Must have minimum of $500,000 for each occurrence of death or
bodily injury.
      (3)   Must have minimum of $100,000 for each occurrence of property
damage, or must have combined single limit coverage which covers both bodily
injury and property damage, minimum of $500,000 per occurrence.
      (4)   Must indicate the policy number.
      (5)   Must identify the effective and expiration dates of the coverage.
      (6)   Must name the sole proprietor, partnership, or corporation as the
insured.
      (7)   Must list the name, address, and phone number of the insurance
agent.
      (8)   Must not limit coverage to a single job.
      (9)   Must notify the Engineering Department, in writing, at least 15
days prior to cancellation.
(Ord. 020110A, passed 2-15-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 115.02 TERM OF REGISTRATION.
   All issued contractor registrations shall be valid for one year from the
date of issuance.
(Ord. 020110A, passed 2-15-10)
§ 115.03 FEE FOR REGISTRATION.
   The fee for registration shall be $100. This fee shall be due and payable
upon issuance. For further detail, please see the Fee Schedule in §
35.30 of this code.
(Ord. 020110A, passed 2-15-10)
§ 115.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following exceptions to the contractor registration process shall apply:
   (A)   Homeowners applying for required residential permits who intend on
performing all work themselves shall not be required to be registered as a
contractor within the City of Fishers to obtain residential permits; and
   (B)   Change of use and or occupancy permit applicants need not be
registered to obtain required permits.
(Ord. 020110A, passed 2-15-10; Am. Ord.091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 115.05 CITY ASSUMES NO LIABILITY.
   The purpose of this chapter is set out above. By enacting this chapter, the
City of Fishers does not in any manner insure or warrant the competency of the
contractors licensed or the quality of the work performed by the contractors
licensed. No representations should be made explicitly by licensed contractors
to the effect that licensure is a representation by the city of their
competency or the quality of their work, nor should any property owner believe
by inference that licensure is an endorsement by the city of the competency or
quality of the work.
(Ord. 020110A, passed 2-15-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event a registered contractor fails to obtain the necessary and
required permits, or respond to noticed violations by the city or comply with
the requirements set out above, the City of Fishers reserves the right to
suspend and/or refuse renewal of contractor registration until such time that
the contractor demonstrates compliance as determined by the Fishers Building
Commissioner. Failure to comply with this chapter by:
      (1)   Failing to obtain a license before doing the work as provided
above, or
      (2)   Failing to maintain the required policies of insurance as set out
above during the term of the license is a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the Fishers
Building Commissioner. Each violator of the restrictions and provisions of this
chapter shall pay a fine to the city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau in the sum
and amount set forth in §
36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action may be filed by the
City Attorney’s office in the Fishers City Court.
(Ord. 020110A, passed 2-15-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
111918D, passed 11-19-18)
CHAPTER 116: SECONDHAND ENTITIES
Section
   
116.01   Applicability
   
116.02   Registration; fee; bond
   
116.03   License requirement
   
116.04   Definitions
   
116.05   Record of transaction
   
116.06   Card record; fingerprint
   
116.07   Retention period for personal property acquired
   
116.08   Acceptance of property from minors or persons under the influence
   
116.09   Government or utility property
   
116.10   Acceptance of property sealed or unopened in its original packaging
   
116.11   Acceptance of property inscribed with a company name
   
116.12   Violations; prosecution of violations
   
116.13   Effect of failure to appear
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter applies to the owner or operator of any secondhand entity
or precious metal dealer as defined herein.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, the term SECONDHAND ENTITY does not
include:
      (1)   Not-for-profit or charitable organizations that:
         (a)   Do not pay cash for acceptance of secondhand personal property;
and
         (b)   Utilize secondhand personal property in furtherance of the
charity’s or not-for-profit’s mission.
      (2)   Retail stores that exclusively trade or purchase sporting goods and
sports-related equipment.
      (3)   Retail stores that exclusively trade or purchase clothing.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 121613, passed 12-16-13)
§ 116.02 REGISTRATION; FEE; BOND.
   (A)   The owner or operator of any secondhand entity or precious metal
dealer shall register with the Police Department, pay a registration fee of $50
and execute a bond payable to Fishers in the penal sum of $1,000 with good and
sufficient surety, to be approved by the Police Department and conditioned on
the applicant agreeing to faithfully observe and conform to all Fishers’
regulations and requirements governing secondhand entities (collectively,
“registration requirements”).
   (B)   In addition to the registration requirements, precious metal dealers
shall also register with the Indiana Secretary of State’s Office.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 121613, passed 12-16-13)
§ 116.03 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   No person, firm, corporation, partnership or association shall engage or
continue to own or operate a secondhand entity or operate as a precious metal
dealer (a) except as authorized by this chapter or (b) without having first
satisfied the registration requirements. Further, a precious metal dealer shall
register with the Indiana Secretary of State’s Office and complete all annual
or other filings consistent with IC 24-4-19 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 121613, passed 12-16-13) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   METAL RECYCLING ENTITY. Any person who from a fixed location engages in the
business of utilizing machinery or equipment for the processing of or
manufacturing of iron, steel, or nonferrous metallic scrap and whose principal
product is scrap iron, scrap steel or nonferrous metallic scrap for re-melting
purposes.
   PAWN DEALER. Any person lending money on the deposit or pledge of personal
property or who deals in the purchase of personal property on the condition of
selling the property back again at a stipulated price.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, limited liability company, or
partnership.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. This term shall include metal, iron and steel and shall
also include jewelry, precious metals, office equipment, household goods,
electronic equipment, tool and coins, as each of those items is defined in the
definition below of SECONDHAND DEALER.
   PRECIOUS METAL. Used jewelry and other used articles of personal property
that: (a) are made of gold, silver, or platinum; and (b) were previously
purchased at retail, acquired by gift, or obtained in some other fashion by a
consumer. The term does not include mint issued coins, ingots or industrial
residue or byproducts that contain gold, silver, or platinum purchased from
manufacturing firms.
   PRECIOUS METAL DEALER. A person who engages in the business of purchasing
precious metal for the purpose of reselling the precious metal in any form.
   SECONDHAND DEALER.
      (1)   Any person who engages in the purchase or exchange of secondhand
personal property for profit, except as set forth in §
116.01.
      (2)   SECONDHAND PERSONAL PROPERTY includes, but is not limited to the
following:
         (a)   COINS. Small pieces of metal, usually flat and circular,
authorized for use as money by the United States Department of Treasury or any
another governmental agency or department,
         (b)   ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT. Televisions, video cameras and receivers,
still picture cameras, motion picture cameras and projectors, radios (receiving
and sending), digital video disc players, camcorders, tape recorders,
cassettes, video tape recorders, stereo equipment, compact disc players,
compact discs, video gaming systems, video games, digital video disc players,
digital video discs (DVDs), blue-ray disc players, blue-ray discs, VHS players,
VHS tapes, portable music devices such as MP3 players, Ipods, Ipads and any
other electronic equipment.
         (c)   HOUSEHOLD GOODS. Washers, dryers, furnaces, air conditioners,
microwave ovens, kitchen appliances, china, crystal, silverware, flatware,
pianos, organs, guitars, and other musical instruments.
         (d)   OFFICE EQUIPMENT. Typewriters, calculators, cash registers,
copying machines, facsimile machines, telephones, cellular phones, computer
hardware, software, computers, computer accessories including tape and disc
drives, printers and storage media.
         (e)   TOOLS. Any device used to facilitate manual or mechanical work,
including but not limited to cutting, gardening, hand, machine and power tools.
   SECONDHAND ENTITY or SECONDHAND ENTITIES. Any pawnshop, secondhand dealer,
metal recycling entity, secondhand metal dealer or valuable metal dealer,
except as set forth in §
116.01.
   SECONDHAND METAL DEALER. Any person who operates or maintains a scrap metal
yard or other place in which used or previously purchased metal items or scrap
metal is collected or kept for shipment, sale or transfer.
   VALUABLE METAL DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of purchasing and
reselling valuable metal either at a permanently established place of business
or in connection with a business of an itinerant nature, including junk shops,
junk yards, junk stores, auto wreckers, scrap metal dealers or processors,
salvage yards, collectors of or dealers in junk, and junk cars or trucks. The
term includes a core buyer. The term does not include a person who purchases a
vehicle and obtains title to the vehicle.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 121613, passed 12-16-13)
§ 116.05 RECORD OF TRANSACTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person operating a secondhand
entity within Fishers’ municipal boundaries shall maintain an electronic
inventory-tracking system and transmit all information required by this section
via computer to the LeadsOnline system (“LeadsOnline”).
   (B)   (1)   For pawn dealers and secondhand dealers, the information
maintained and transmitted to LeadsOnline shall include:
         (a)   The date and time of each transaction in which personal property
is purchased pledged or received;
         (b)    An accurate and detailed description of any and all personal
property purchased or acquired during the regular course of business, including
but not limited to the following information:
            1.   Trademarks;
            2.   Identification numbers;
            3.   Serial numbers;
            4.   Model numbers;
            5.   Brand names;
            6.   Inscriptions; and
            7.   Other identifying marks;
         (c)   The compensation or amount of money exchanged for each such
transaction;
         (d)   The full name, address, telephone number, date of birth,
driver’s license number or state-issued identification card and digital
photograph of the person from whom personal property is acquired;
         (e)   A digital photograph of any item not bearing a unique serial
number and purchased or acquired for a sum or money or other compensation
valued at $25 or more; and
         (f)   Any additional information that the Fishers Chief of Police may
reasonably require to ensure compliance with the laws of the State of Indiana
or Fishers’ ordinances (collectively, “identifying information”).
      (2)   The information required to be transmitted to LeadsOnline shall be
transmitted within 48 hours of the date and time a purchase or transaction is
consummated, except that for the sale of precious metals, the information must
be transmitted daily to LeadsOnline.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Recycling entities and secondhand metal dealers shall
comply with IC 25-37.5-1-2 which provides that every valuable metal dealer in
this state shall enter on forms provided by the State Police Department for
each purchase of valuable metal the following information:
            1.   The name and address of the dealer.
            2.   The date and place of each purchase.
            3.   The name, address, age, and driver’s license number or social
security number of the person or persons from whom the valuable metal was
purchased.
            4.   The valuable metal dealer shall verify the identity of the
person from whom the valuable metal was purchased by use of a government issued
photographic identification. The dealer shall enter on the form the type of
government issued photographic identification used to verify the identity of
the person from whom the valuable metal was purchased, together with the:
               A.   Name of the government agency that issued the photographic
identification; and
               B.   Identification number present on the government issued
photographic identification.
            5.   The motor vehicle license number of the vehicle or conveyance
on which the valuable metal was delivered to the dealer.
            6.   The price paid for the metal.
            7.   A description and weight of the valuable metal purchased.
            8.   The source of the valuable metal.
            9.   The photograph described in division (C)(2) below.
         (b)   After entering the information required in this division (C)(1),
the valuable metal dealer shall require the person or persons from whom the
valuable metal is purchased to sign the form and verify its accuracy.
      (2)   In addition to collecting the information described in division (C)
(1), a valuable metal dealer shall take a photograph of:
         (a)   The person from whom the valuable metal is being purchased; and
         (b)   The valuable metal.
      (3)   A valuable metal dealer shall make and retain a copy of the
government issued photographic identification described under division (C)(1)
(a)4. used to verify the identity of the person from whom valuable metal was
purchased and the photograph described in division (C)(2). However, a valuable
metal dealer is not required to make a copy of a government issued photographic
identification used under division (C)(1)(a)4. to verify the identity of the
person from whom valuable metal is purchased if the valuable metal dealer has
retained a copy of a person’s government issued photographic identification
from a prior purchase from the person by the valuable metal dealer.
      (4)   The completed form, the photograph described in subsection division
(C)(2), and the copy of the government issued photographic identification
described in (C)(3) shall be kept in a separate book or register by the dealer
and shall be retained for a period of two years. This book or register shall be
made available for inspection by any law enforcement official at any time.
   (D)   Precious metal dealers shall comply with IC 24-4-19-15 by maintaining
books, accounts, and records necessary to determine whether the precious metal
dealer is complying with Indiana Law.
      (1)   A precious metal dealer shall:
         (a)   Preserve the books, accounts, and records for at least two years
after making the final entry on any purchase recorded; and
         (b)   Keep the books and records so that the business of purchasing
precious metal for resale may be readily separated and distinguished from any
other business in which the precious metal dealer is engaged.
      (2)   If a precious metal dealer, in the conduct of the business,
purchases precious metal from a seller, the purchase shall be evidenced by a
bill of sale properly signed by the seller verifying the accuracy of the
information in the bill of sale. All bills of sale must be in duplicate and
must list the following separate items:
         (a)   The date of sale.
         (b)   The:
            1.   Name;
            2.   Address;
            3.   Date of birth; and
            4.   Driver’s license number or Social Security number of the
seller from whom the precious metal was purchased.
         (c)   The amount of consideration paid for the precious metal.
         (d)   The:
            1.   Name of the precious metal dealer; and
            2.   Address of the permanent place of business where the purchase
occurred.
         (e)   A description of each article of precious metal sold. However,
if multiple articles of precious metal of a similar nature are delivered
together in one transaction, the description of the articles is adequate if the
description contains the quantity of the articles delivered and a physical
description of the type of articles delivered, including any unique identifying
marks, numbers, names, letters, or special features.
         (f)   The type of government issued photographic identification used
to verify the identity of the seller under IC 24-4-19-14, together with the
name of the governmental agency that issued the photographic identification and
the identification number present on the government issued photographic
identification.
         (g)   If a precious metal dealer purchases precious metal, the
precious metal dealer shall retain as part of the books, accounts, and records
kept by the precious metal dealer under this section:
            1.   The original copy of the bill of sale; and
            2.   The:
               A.   Copy of the seller’s government issued photographic
identification; and
               B.   Photograph of the precious metal obtained by the precious
metal dealer.
      (3)   The second copy of the bill of sale shall be delivered to the
seller by the precious metal dealer at the time of sale.
      (4)   The heading on all bill of sale forms must be in boldface type.
(Am. Ord. 121613, passed 12-16-13)
Statutory reference:
   For similar provision under state law, see IC 25-37.5-1-2.
§ 116.06 CARD RECORD; FINGERPRINT.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements set forth in §
116.05 above, all secondhand entities and precious metal dealers shall:
      (1)   Electronically scan the right thumb of any person transferring an
item personal property or valuable metal to a secondhand entity and transfer
the thumbprint to LeadsOnline; or
      (2)   (a)   Complete a card prescribed by the Police Department which
card shall include a space for the person to:
            1.   Write in his or her own handwriting the person’s name and
address and date of the transaction; and
            2.   Place his or her right thumbprint on the back of the card.
         (b)   If the right thumb is missing, any of the person’s fingerprints
may be used. The thumbprint shall be made in the manner approved by the Chief
of Police and shall not be blurred or obliterated.
   (B)   If the card described in division (A)(2) is used, it shall be in a
form prescribed by the Chief of Police and shall cross-reference the
information submitted to LeadsOnline pursuant to §
116.05 in a manner that allows the secondhand entity to readily match the card
to the person for which the identifying information was submitted to
LeadsOnline.
   (C)   All cards completed pursuant to this section shall be maintained by
the secondhand entity for not less than five years.
   (D)   The thumbprint required by division (A)(1) shall be transmitted to
LeadsOnline within 48 hours of the date and time a purchase or transaction is
consummated. Transactions involving precious metals shall be transmitted daily.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 121613, passed 12-16-13)
§ 116.07 RETENTION PERIOD FOR PERSONAL PROPERTY ACQUIRED.
   (A)   All personal property received by secondhand entities for resale or
reclamation shall be retained by the secondhand entity for not less than seven
days. Transactions involving precious metals shall be retained for not less
than ten days.
   (B)   Further, during the ten-day retention period applicable to precious
metal transactions, the precious metal dealer may not change the form of the
precious metal.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 121613, passed 12-16-13)
§ 116.08 ACCEPTANCE OF PROPERTY FROM MINORS OR PERSONS UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating a secondhand entity
or a precious metal dealer to take, purchase or receive personal property or
precious metals from any person who is under the age of 18, who is under the
influence of narcotics or alcohol or to take property that the secondhand
entity or precious metal dealer believes or should have reason to believe was
stolen or acquired as a result of crime.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 121613, passed 12-16-13) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.09 GOVERNMENT OR UTILITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating a secondhand
entity or a precious metal dealer to take, purchase or receive personal
property or precious metal on which words or markings appear indicating
ownership of such item by the United States, State of Indiana, or any political
subdivision, governmental agency or public utility company (“governmental
entity”), except where the person offering such item for sale or transfer
provides the following:
      (1)   Written authorization from the governmental entity to convey the
item on behalf of the governmental entity; or
      (2)   A valid receipt from the governmental entity evidencing that the
governmental entity has conveyed or relinquished ownership rights in the
personal property or precious metal.
   (B)   It shall not be a defense to prosecution that the personal property or
precious metal does not contain words or markings indicating ownership if the
person who purchased or received the personal property or precious metal knew
or should have known that the personal property or precious metal is owned by a
governmental entity.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 121613, passed 12-16-13) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.10 ACCEPTANCE OF PROPERTY SEALED OR UNOPENED IN ITS ORIGINAL PACKAGING.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of a secondhand entity or a
precious metal dealer to purchase or receive personal property or precious
metal sealed or unopened in its original packaging unless the person conveying
such personal property presents a receipt or proof of purchase for the personal
property.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 121613, passed 12-16-13) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.11 ACCEPTANCE OF PROPERTY INSCRIBED WITH A COMPANY NAME.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or operator of a secondhand entity or a
precious metal dealer to purchase or receive personal property or precious
metal bearing the name, initials or logo of a business entity unless the person
conveying such personal property or precious metal provides, at the time of
conveyance, a valid receipt indicating lawful ownership, a signed statement
attesting to lawful ownership, or written authorization from the business
entity to convey the personal property or precious metal on the entity’s
behalf.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 121613, passed 12-16-13) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.12 VIOLATIONS; PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person receiving a notice of violation of this chapter may appear
at the Ordinance Violations Bureau and pay the fine indicated on the notice or
deny the violation and contest the matter in City Court.
   (B)   If a person appears at the Ordinance Violations Bureau denies the
violation, the Bureau shall cause the matter to be docketed with the Clerk of
the City Court. The case shall then proceed according to the rules and
procedures of the City Court pertaining to ordinance violations.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see
§
116.99
§ 116.13 EFFECT OF FAILURE TO APPEAR.
   Upon the failure or refusal of any person receiving a notice of violation of
this chapter to appear as provided in this chapter and report to the Ordinance
Violations Bureau or to compromise the violation if appearing, it shall be the
duty of the Clerk of the City Court to report such fact to the Corporation
Counsel or his or her designee and to the law enforcement officer who signed
the notice to appear, and to furnish the Chief of Police with all necessary
information to prepare a proper affidavit and complaint, together with the
correct name and address of the violator, if known or ascertainable.
Proceedings in the City Court against such violator shall thereupon be brought
in the manner provided by statute or as hereafter may be provided and, upon
conviction of the offense charged and in lieu of the sums prescribed by any
such compromise, the penalties provided for general violations of this chapter
may be assessed for each such offense, together with all court costs and fees.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord.091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any section of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of $500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 071612, passed 10-15-12; Am. Ord. 012213, passed 2-4-13)
CHAPTER 117: MOBILE CONCESSIONS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Permit display
   
117.03   Mobile concession operations
   
117.04   Compliance with laws, regulations and ordinances
   
117.05   Fire protection requirements
 
   
117.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Food and Beverage Tax, see §§
34.40 et seq.
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE CONCESSIONS. Self-contained, mobile food and beverage services
licensed to do business in the State of Indiana and holding all requisite
Health Department, business and resale licensures to sell food and beverages in
Indiana. This term shall not include food delivery services that deliver food
or beverages ordered by a purchaser to a specific address provided by the
purchaser.
(Ord. 021819C, passed 2-18-19)
§ 117.02 PERMIT DISPLAY.
   Owners or operators of a mobile concessions business shall at all times
display the permit obtained by the County Health Department while operating
within the city.
(Ord. 021819C, passed 2-18-19)
§ 117.03 MOBILE CONCESSION OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Mobile concessions businesses shall not:
      (1)   Interfere with or obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or
vehicles along any street, sidewalk, road or parking lot drive aisle; or
      (2)   Park within 20 feet of an intersection.
   (B)   Mobile concession businesses shall seek permission from the property
owner to be located on private property or the city if the mobile concessions
business is located on city property. The space available to mobile concession
businesses at some city events may be limited.
(Ord. 021819C, passed 2-18-19)
§ 117.04 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, REGULATIONS AND ORDINANCES.
   Mobile concessions must comply with all local, state and federal laws,
regulations and ordinances. Mobile concessions will be responsible for
collecting the proper sales and food and beverage taxes and reporting to the
proper state agencies.
(Ord. 021819C, passed 2-18-19)
§ 117.05 FIRE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)    Mobile concessions which provide services within the fire protection
area of the city fire and emergency services shall be equipped with proper fire
extinguishing equipment. Such equipment shall be properly installed and
maintained to the State of Indiana Fire Code and/or the appropriate NFPA
standards. This shall include, but is not limited to, all fire extinguishers,
grease laden vapor systems and compressed gas for cooking.
   (B)   Inspections. All mobile concessions providing services within the fire
protection area of the city fire and emergency services may be subject to
inspection by the Department of Fire and Emergency Services at any time the
mobile concession is operating within the city, to ensure compliance with
division (A) above.
   (C)   The Department of Fire and Emergency Services shall have authority to
enforce this section.
(Ord. 021819C, passed 2-18-19)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any section of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of $500. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 021819C, passed 2-18-19)
CHAPTER 118: TOWING FOR DISABLED VEHICLES
Section
   
118.01   Definitions and general provisions
   
118.02   Authority to remove and store vehicles
   
118.03   Request for proposals
   
118.04   Use of towing businesses
   
118.05   Removal and storage of towed disabled vehicle
   
118.06   Office requirements
   
118.07   Storage facility requirements
   
118.08   Holidays
   
118.09   Continuous service
   
118.10   Storage capacity
   
118.11   Towing capacity
   
118.12   Subcontractors
   
118.13   Fees
   
118.14   Large scale accident fees
   
118.15   Tow rate sheet
   
118.16   Payment
   
118.17   Receipts
   
118.18   Subsequent towing services
   
118.19   Employee background checks
   
118.20   Identification of wreckers
   
118.21   Contractor's employees
   
118.22   Additional services
   
118.23   Proof of insurance
   
118.24   Accident reconstruction scene
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEANUP. The act of removing debris, fluids, and related items resulting
from an accident or disabled vehicle.
   CONTRACT TOWER(S). Those towing businesses that are selected pursuant to a
request for proposal ("RFP") issued by the Fishers Police Department and enter
into an agreement with the city to provide towing services.
   DISABLED VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, as defined by IC 9-13-2-105, that has
been damaged or rendered permanently or temporarily inoperative as a result of
a collision or accident, wear and tear, mechanical failure or any other cause,
for which a law enforcement agency has requested removal. DISABLED VEHICLE
shall also include all motor vehicles, as defined above, that necessitate
towing services, due to violation of state statute(s), local ordinance(s), or
other applicable laws.
   EQUIPMENT FEES. The fees charged for use of equipment and other tangible
goods necessary to effect the removal of a disabled vehicle and debris from the
roadway.
   LABOR. The work required to effectuate the towing service.
   LARGE SCALE ACCIDENTS. Any incident that involve four or more disabled
vehicles or any incident that involves a vehicle that weighs 14,500 pounds or
more.
   LIEN FEE. All fees associated with lien services the tow business is
required to perform pursuant to IC 9-22 et seq.
   MILEAGE. The distance the contract tower tows a disabled vehicle after a
police initiated tow.
   RECOVERY FEE. All fees associated with winching, rolling, dragging, and
moving a vehicle onto the roadway.
   STORAGE FEE. A fee charged to store a disabled vehicle in a storage
location.
   STORAGE LOCATION. A secure facility or location that acts as a repository
for towed vehicles.
   TOWING SERVICES. The act of removing a disabled vehicle from a public or
private road area by attaching, lifting, pulling or dragging and storing such
vehicles in a secure facility or location, and shall also include, but not be
limited to, all labor, mileage, equipment, and cleanup required to effectuate
the tow.
   TOW VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle used for the purpose of towing or moving
vehicles.
   TOWING BUSINESSES. A person or commercial entity that is engaged in, or
offers the service of moving vehicles from one place to another by the use of a
tow truck.
   WINDOW WRAP FEE. Any fee associated with covering windows on a vehicle.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 118.02 AUTHORITY TO REMOVE AND STORE VEHICLES.
   When a disabled vehicle is found upon the highways or streets in the city
and impedes the orderly flow of traffic, needs to be towed for law enforcement
investigation(s), or needs to be towed due to violation of state statute(s),
local ordinance(s), or other applicable laws, Fishers Police Department
("Fishers Police") may have the disabled vehicle towed to a storage location.
Tows initiated under this chapter shall be considered involuntary.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.03 REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS.
   Fishers Police may issue request for proposals (RFPs) pursuant to IC 5-22-
9 et seq. to solicit towing businesses to provide towing services. The Board of
Public Works and Safety may place on a list any towing businesses that meet the
requirements of this chapter. The number of companies selected through a RFP
process shall be based upon the need of the Fishers Police. Fishers Police may
select as many or as few companies as it needs to fulfill its requirements as
long as the companies chosen are selected through the evaluation factors set
forth in this chapter and a RFP. Selection of a business for inclusion on the
towing list does not create a license within the meaning of IC 36-5-4-11. The
Fishers Police Chief, or his/her designee, have the discretion to remove towing
businesses from the list if at any time they violate this chapter, if the
towing business no longer fulfills the Fishers Police requirements or if
Fishers Police no longer needs the towing business.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.04 USE OF TOWING BUSINESSES.
   Towing businesses may be used by Fishers Police on a rotational basis until
a towing business is removed from the Fishers Police towing list, either
voluntarily or involuntarily.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.05 REMOVAL AND STORAGE OF TOWED DISABLED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Consultation with officer. Towing businesses shall consult the
investigating officer prior to removing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Accident cleanup. The towing business shall cleanup the accident site.
Local, state and federal regulations shall govern the use and disposal of
absorbent used to remove oil, antifreeze or other chemicals.
   (C)   Disabled vehicle removal. Upon approval of the investigating officer,
towing businesses shall immediately move disabled vehicles to the towing
businesses’ storage location, or to the Police Department as directed by the
officer on the scene, unless the towing business has written approval from the
owner or operator of the disabled vehicle and the officer to move it to another
location.
   (D)   Storage location. Towed disabled vehicles shall be secured inside the
storage location until the owner or owner's authorized agent secures possession
of the disabled vehicle. It shall be a violation of this section to leave a
disabled vehicle unattended outside a storage location.
   (E)   Stolen vehicles.
      (1)   If any disabled vehicle is damaged or stolen while located at or
about a storage location, the towing business shall notify the appropriate law
enforcement agency immediately upon discovery and shall file a report.
      (2)   For security purposes, motorcycles, mopeds, all-terrain vehicles
and disabled vehicles of a similar nature may be secured within a building
owned or leased by the police-initiated licensed towing company at the
registered business address.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.06 OFFICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each towing business shall maintain an office area where business can
be conducted and records maintained.
   (B)   The office address shall be the same as the towing business' storage
location.
   (C)   The office shall be readily identifiable and the name of the business
and hours of operation shall be conspicuously posted.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.07 STORAGE FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   All towing businesses shall:
   (A)   Maintain a storage location in Hamilton County;
   (B)   Maintain an onsite attendant at the storage location 24 hours per day,
seven days per week excluding holidays, to return any vehicle claimed by the
vehicle's owner, upon the payment of towing and storage charges; or
   (C)   Post a conspicuous and well-lit sign at the storage location that
lists the telephone number where the owner, manager, or attendant of the
storage location may be reached at any time 24 hours per day, seven days per
week, excluding holidays, so that a towed vehicle may be claimed in a minimum
amount of time, not to exceed 60 minutes.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.08 HOLIDAYS.
   For disabled vehicles towed not more than 24 hours before Christmas, Easter,
Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Labor Day or Thanksgiving, storage fees shall not
accrue while the storage facility is not open for vehicle redemption.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.09 CONTINUOUS SERVICE.
   Towing services shall be provided by the towing business 24 hours per day
unless a tow vehicle is unavailable. If a tow vehicle is unavailable, the tow
business shall immediately notify the law enforcement agency making the tow
request.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.10 STORAGE CAPACITY.
   If a towing business’ storage location in Hamilton County is at maximum
capacity, the towing business shall immediately advise the law enforcement
agency and shall not accept a request for towing services from a law
enforcement agency; at which time the law enforcement agency shall make other
arrangements with a separate towing business.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.11 TOWING CAPACITY.
   Towing businesses shall respond with one towing vehicle for each disabled
vehicle reported by the law enforcement agency, unless the responding towing
vehicle is designed to move more than one disabled vehicle at a time. If the
towing business does not have enough available towing vehicles for the call,
the towing business may seek assistance from another towing company that is
also selected through a RFP. All towing companies contacted for assistance
shall have the equipment needed to effectuate the tow. If the towing company
contacted to assist with the tow does not have the required equipment for the
situation and responds, it shall be a violation of this chapter and the towing
company may be removed from the rotation list. The towing company shall notify
the calling officer of this situation at the time the officer calls.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.12 SUBCONTRACTORS.
   A towing business shall not subcontract any portion of towing services
described by this chapter, unless expressly authorized by the Police
Department.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.13 FEES.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a towing business to
charge more than the following rates for a tow initiated pursuant this chapter:
      (1)   Towing a disabled vehicle/hook up fee      $195
      (2)   Recovery fee                  $75
      (3)   Storage fee                  $35 for each 24-hour period of
storage; provided, however that a storage fee may not begin to accrue until the
next business day after the vehicle arrives at the storage facility. Provided
however, that if a vehicle arrives to the storage facility on or after 9:00
p.m., the storage fee shall not begin to accrue until the day after the next
business day the vehicle arrives.
      (4)   Removing a vehicle from storage         $25
      (5)   Lien fee                  $75
      (6)   Window wrap fee               $50 total
   (B)   The maximum allowable rates apply to towing services requested by a
law enforcement agency and provided within the city's' municipal boundaries
regardless of the disabled vehicle's location and/or physical condition. The
towing business shall only charge for the specific services provided. The
towing business shall not charge any additional fees for clean up, mileage,
equipment fees, labor, or any other fee for towing services initiated under
this chapter.
   (C)   The owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for all charges incurred
pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.14 LARGE SCALE ACCIDENT FEES.
   The rates and fees charged for large scale accidents shall be reasonable and
not in excess of those rates charged for similar services provided in response
to requests initiated by any other public agency or private person. The owner
of the vehicle shall be responsible for all charges incurred pursuant to this
section.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.15 TOW RATE SHEET.
   Towing businesses shall provide a tow rate sheet that includes all of the
tow business' prices for the towing services to the owner or owner’s agent
responsible for the disabled vehicle. If a person is not present at the time
the towing services are provided, the towing business shall leave the tow rate
sheet with the disabled vehicle.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.16 PAYMENT.
   Additional charges shall not be imposed on the owner of the vehicle for the
use of a debit or credit card.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.17 RECEIPTS.
   Upon payment of towing and storage fees, a towing business that provides tow
services under this chapter shall provide a receipt to the vehicle's owner that
contains the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the towing business;
   (B)   The date and time that the vehicle entered the storage facility; and
   (C)   An itemized list of the fees being charged.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.18 SUBSEQUENT TOWING SERVICES.
   Charges for subsequent towing services after completion of the initial
towing service requested by a law enforcement agency are not limited to the
maximum allowable rates set forth in §
118.13 unless the request:
   (A)   Is made by a law enforcement agency; and
   (B)   Is to have the vehicle moved from a facility owned by and operated by
the city to the towing business’ storage location.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.19 EMPLOYEE BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   Companies selected to provide towing services through a RFP process shall
perform national background checks on all newly hired employees.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.20 IDENTIFICATION OF WRECKERS.
   Companies selected to provide towing services through a RFP process shall
have the company name, address and business phone number on the outside of the
wrecker, in letters not less than four inches in height. The information shall
be reasonably visible.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.21 CONTRACTOR'S EMPLOYEES.
   Contractors selected through a RFP shall require employees to wear a uniform
that identifies the tow business when responding to a call for towing services
under this chapter.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.22 ADDITIONAL SERVICES.
   Services different than or in addition to those set forth in §
118.13 or
118.14 and requested by the vehicle's owner are not limited to the maximum
allowable rates.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.23 PROOF OF INSURANCE.
   A towing business may require proof of insurance if the owner desires to
drive the vehicle from the storage facility; however, a towing business may not
withhold a vehicle for failure to provide proof of insurance.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.24 ACCIDENT RECONSTRUCTION SCENE.
   This chapter shall not be applicable to accident reconstruction(s) conducted
by the city.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the Fishers Police
Department. Each violator of the restrictions and provisions of this chapter
shall pay a fine to the city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau in the sum and
amount set forth in §
36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action may be filed by the
City Attorney’s office in the Fishers City Court.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 032023, passed 4-17-23)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
      
131.   CURFEW
      
132.   LOITERING
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST CITY REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Discharge of dangerous projectiles
   
130.02   Use of water projection devices aimed at persons or property within
public rights-of- way during public events
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISCHARGE OF DANGEROUS PROJECTILES.
   No person shall discharge within the limits of the city any dangerous
projectile. Dangerous projectiles prohibited by this section shall include, but
shall not be limited to, projectiles discharged by air; by gas; by powder; or
projectiles propelled by other mechanical means. This section shall apply to
all of the aforementioned except firearms. Firearms shall be exempt from this
section.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-22-64; Am. Ord. 121613B, passed 12-16-13; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 USE OF WATER PROJECTION DEVICES AIMED AT PERSONS OR PROPERTY WITHIN
PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY DURING PUBLIC EVENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally aim and discharge
a water projection device onto a public right-of-way within the city at a
person, vehicle, or other personal property without the consent of such persons
during a public event. A “public event” for purposes of this section may
include any lawful gathering within a public right-of-way for a parade,
festival or other such activity.
   (B)   Each and every violation of this section shall be and infraction
punishable by a fine of $250 per offense. All sworn police officers of the city
are hereby authorized to issue Uniform Ordinance Violation tickets for each and
every offense. The sworn officers are also authorized to confiscate any such
device which they observe being used in violation of this section.
(Ord. 050504, passed 5-17-04; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $300.
(Ord. 4, passed 12-22-64; Am. Ord. 022091B, passed 3-6-91)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Permitting minors to become loiterers
   
131.02   Curfew hours for children 15, 16 and 17 years of age
   
131.03   Curfew hours for children younger than 15 years of age
   
131.04   Application
   
131.05   Curfew, responsibility of parent, guardian, or custodian
 
   
131.98   Enforcement
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PERMITTING MINORS TO BECOME LOITERERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the proprietor, manager or other person
having charge or control of any business or place of public resort to permit,
allow or encourage any minor, which is not legally employed therein, to become
a common loiterer in or around such place.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having
the custody or control of any minor to permit, allow or encourage such minor to
become a common loiterer on any street, alley or other public place, or in any
business or commercial establishment, or in any place of public resort.
(Ord. 060208A, passed 6-2-08) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02CURFEW HOURS FOR CHILDREN 15, 16 AND 17 YEARS OF AGE.
   It is unlawful for a child 15, 16, or 17 years of age to be in a public
place in the city at any time during the following curfew hours:
   (A)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
   (B)   After 11:00 p.m. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday;
or
   (C)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday.
(Ord. 060208A, passed 6-2-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 CURFEW HOURS FOR CHILDREN YOUNGER THAN 15 YEARS OF AGE.
   It is unlawful for a child younger than 15 years of age to be in a public
place in the city after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 060208A, passed 6-2-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Sections
131.02 and
131.03 do not apply to a child who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child's parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child's parent, guardian,
or custodian;
      (3)   With the consent of the child's parent, guardian, or custodian,
either participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school-sanctioned activity;
         (c)   A religious event;
         (d)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (e)   An expressive, religious, or associational activity protected by
either federal or state law, including but not limited to the free exercise of
religion, freedom of speech, and the right to assembly;
         (f)   An activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the
supervision of one or more adults; or
         (g)   An activity undertaken at the written direction of the child's
parent, guardian, or custodian; or
      (4)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside Indiana to another location outside Indiana.
   (B)   No complaint shall be filed unless the officer reasonably believes
that an offense has occurred under this section and that no defense exists for
the alleged violation.
(Ord. 060208A, passed 6-2-08)
§ 131.05 CURFEW, RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT, GUARDIAN, OR CUSTODIAN.
   It is unlawful for a parent, guardian or custodian of a child under the age
of 18 years recklessly to cause, suffer, or allow that child to commit a curfew
violation under this chapter. If a parent, guardian, custodian, or child is
charged with a second or subsequent violation of this section or this chapter,
there shall be a presumption that he or she is responsible under this section
for the child's violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 060208A, passed 6-2-08) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.98 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A child or parent/guardian/custodian who commits a curfew violation
under this chapter is subject to the enforcement procedures provided in IC 34-
28-5-1 and the city's Ordinance Violations Bureau.
   (B)   Any child who commits a curfew violation under this chapter shall have
committed a Class C infraction and shall be punished accordingly. The schedule
of fines payable through the Ordinance Violations Bureau shall provide for an
increasing fine schedule for subsequent violations.
   (C)   Whenever a complaint is filed against a child for a violation of this
chapter, the city shall direct a copy of the complaint to the child's parent,
guardian, or custodian, if such person is known or can be identified by a
reasonable inquiry. Further, any court of competent jurisdiction, in its
discretion, shall be entitled to order such injunctive relief as is appropriate
and necessary to prevent a child from committing further violations of this
chapter.
(Ord. 060208A, passed 6-2-08; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the Fishers
Police Department. Each violator of the restrictions and provisions of this
chapter shall pay a fine to the city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau in the sum
and amount set forth in § 36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement
action may be filed by the City Attorney’s office in the Fishers City Court.
   (B)   If judgement is entered against the violator in Fishers City Court,
the violator may perform community service in lieu of paying a monetary
judgement if agreed to by the City Attorney’s office and pursuant to terms
approved by the Fishers City Court Judge, as allowed by I.C. 34-28-5-1.
   (C)   Whenever a citation is written against a minor for a violation of this
chapter, the Fishers Police Department may direct a copy of the citation to the
minor’s parent, guardian, or custodian, if such person is known or can be
identified by a reasonable inquiry. Further, any court with jurisdiction, in
its discretion, shall be entitled to order such injunctive relief as is
appropriate and necessary to prevent a child from committing further violations
of this chapter.
(Ord. 060208A, passed 6-2-08; Am. Ord. 111918D, passed 11-19-18)
CHAPTER 132: LOITERING
Section
   
132.01   Loitering prohibited
 
   
132.99   Enforcement and penalty
§ 132.01 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain within any
parking garage or parking lot owned by the city or within a public parking
section of any privately-owned parking garage or parking lot located within the
city’s corporate boundaries at a time or in a manner that warrants a
justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the safety of persons
or property in the parking garage, parking lot, or surrounding area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain within any
parking garage or parking lot owned by the city or within a public parking
section of any privately-owned parking garage or parking lot located within the
city’s corporate boundaries if such person would create or cause to be created
any of the following:
      (1)   Actual or danger of a breach of the peace;
      (2)   The unreasonable danger of a disturbance to the safety of any
person in a parking garage, parking lot, public way, street, highway, place or
alley;
      (3)   The obstruction or attempted obstruction of the free normal flow of
vehicular traffic or the normal passage of pedestrian traffic in or upon any
parking garage, parking lot, public way, street, highway, place or alley;
      (4)   The obstruction or interference or attempt to obstruct or interfere
with any person lawfully on or in a public way, street, highway, place or
alley, in a manner that would cause a reasonable person or pedestrian of a
parking garage, parking lot, public way, street, highway, place or alley to
fear for his or her safety; or
      (5)   The obstruction or interference of patrons in the normal course of
business.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remain within any parking
garage or parking lot owned by the city or within a public parking section a
privately-owned parking garage or parking lot located within the city’s
corporate boundaries, after being directed by a uniformed or otherwise properly
identified city police officer to leave the premises.
(Ord. 031824, passed 3-18-24) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the Fishers
Police Department. Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to the following penalty provisions:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by state law, rule or regulation, any
violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of $250.
   (B)   Any person issued a violation of the restrictions and provisions of
this chapter shall pay a fine to the city’s Ordinance Violations Bureau in the
amount set forth in §
36.08. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action may be filed by the
Fishers Law Department in the Fishers City Court.
(Ord. 031824, passed 3-18-24)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
151.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
      
152.   TRANSPORTATION PLAN
      
153.   (RESERVED)
      
154.   BUILDING CODE
      
155.   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT
      
156.   ADMINISTRATION, PERMITS AND FEES
      
157.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
158.   SIGN ORDINANCE
      
159.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND PREMISES
      
160.   ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
      
161.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
162.   LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS
      
163.   HOME RENTAL REGISTRATION AND PERMITTING PROGRAM
CHAPTER 150: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Title
   
150.02   Purpose
   
150.03   Content
   
150.04   Effect of Comprehensive Plan
   
150.05   Definitions
   
150.06   Park and Recreation Master Plan and Infrastructure Improvement Plan
2001 update adopted by reference
   
150.07   Town Center Plan 2001 update adopted by reference
   
150.08   Developing Guidelines Plan adopted by reference
Administration
   
150.10   Advisory Plan Commission established; continuing authority
   
150.11   Responsibility of Clerk
   
150.12   Amendments
   
150.13   Filing fees; forms
   
150.14   Comprehensive Plan
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 TITLE.
   This chapter, and chapters in Title XV and any ordinances of the city
supplementary and amendatory thereto, shall be known and cited hereafter as the
Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
032116C, passed 6-20-16; Am. Ord. 081522B, passed 11-14-22; Am. Ord. 022425D,
passed 3-17-25)
§ 150.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Comprehensive Plan is to encourage the development of
the Fishers Advisory Plan Commission's jurisdictional area in such a manner as
to provide for the improvement of the health, safety, convenience and welfare
of its citizens and to plan for the future development of the community to the
end that streets and highways be carefully planned; that new areas grow only
with adequate street, utility, health, education, and recreational facilities;
that the needs of agriculture, industry, and business be recognized in the
future growth; that residential areas provide healthy surroundings for the
family life, and that the growth of the community is commensurate with, and
promotive of, the efficient and economical use of public funds.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80)
§ 150.03 CONTENT.
   The Comprehensive Plan include the following:
   (A)   Careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions
and the probable future growth of the municipality and its environs.
   (B)   Maps, plats, charts, and descriptive material presenting basic
information, locations, extent and character of any of the following:
      (1)   History, population, and physical site conditions;
      (2)   Land use, including the height, area, bulk, location and use of
private and public structures and premises;
      (3)   Population densities;
      (4)   Community centers and neighborhood units;
      (5)   Blighted and slum areas;
      (6)   Streets and highways, including bridges, viaducts, subways,
parkways, and other public places;
      (7)   Sewers, sanitation, and drainage, including handling treatment, and
disposal of excess drainage waters, sewage, garbage, refuse, and other wastes;
      (8)   Stream pollution;
      (9)   Flood control and its prevention;
      (10)   Public and private utilities, including water, light, heat,
communication, and other services;
      (11)   Transportation, including rail, bus, truck, air and water
transport and their terminal facilities.
      (12)   Local mass transit, including motor and trolley bus; street,
elevated or underground railways, and taxicabs;
      (13)   Parks and recreation, including parks, playground, reservations,
forests, wildlife refuges, and other public grounds, spaces, and facilities of
a recreational nature;
      (14)   Public buildings and institutions, including governmental
administration and service buildings, hospitals, infirmaries, clinics, penal
and correctional institutions, and other civic and social service buildings;
      (15)   Education, including location and extent of schools, colleges, and
universities;
      (16)   Land utilization, including agriculture, forests, and other uses;
      (17)   Conservation of water, soil, agricultural and mineral resources;
and
      (18)   Any other factors which are a part of the physical, economic, or
social situation within the city.
   (C)   Reports, maps, charts, and recommendations setting forth plans for the
development, redevelopment, improvement, extension, and revisions of the
subjects and physical situations set out in division (B) of this section, so as
to substantially accomplish the purpose of this Plan.
   (D)   Long-range development programs of public works projects with a view
to stabilizing industry and employment and the keeping of those programs up-to-
date by annual revisions. These long-range development programs shall be based
upon the recommended plans of the Advisory Plan Commission, and shall further
serve the purpose of eliminating unplanned, unsightly, untimely, and
extravagant projects.
   (E)   A long-range financial program of governmental expenditures so that
the development program can be carried out and kept up-to-date for all taxing
units within the city to assure efficient and economic use of public funds.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 150.04 EFFECT OF COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   The City Council and all city commissions and all other agencies of the city
shall be guided by, and give consideration to, the policies and patterns of
development established and set out in the Comprehensive Plan prior to the
authorization, construction, alteration or abandonment of any public
installation required or necessitated in the interest of the physical
development of the city and its jurisdictional area.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 150.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Title XV the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way and thoroughfare, other than a street, road,
crosswalk or easement, which provides only secondary means of access to the
abutting properties.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING and USE. A building or use subordinate to another
structure or use located on the same lot and which does not change or alter the
character of the premises and which is not used for human occupancy. Also, all
satellite television receiving-only antennas shall be defined as an accessory
structure on a lot.
   ADVERTISING STRUCTURE or SIGN. Any notice or advertisement, pictorial or
otherwise, and all such structures used as an outdoor display, regardless of
size and shape, for the purposes of making anything known, the origin or place
of sale of which may or may not be on the property with such advertising
structures.
   AGRICULTURE. The art or science of cultivating the ground, and raising and
harvesting of crops, also often including feeding, breeding, and management of
livestock; tillage; husbandry; farming; in a broader sense, the science and art
of the production of plants and animals useful to man.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure utilized for the conduct of farming
operations, but it does not include a dwelling.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance, now known or hereinafter invented, for use or
designed for navigation of or flight in the air or outer space, including
missiles.
   AIRPORT. Any area which is used or intended to be used for the taking off
and landing of aircraft, including helicopters, and any appurtenant areas which
are used or intended to be used for airport buildings or facilities, including
open spaces, taxiways and tie-down areas.
   APARTMENT. A building or portion thereof designed for, or occupied by more
than two families. Also, a multi-family dwelling.
   APPEALS BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals.
   ARTIFICIAL LAKE. A man-made body of water fed by a watercourse.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building or structure which is partially or
wholly underground (below grade).
   BLOCK. A land area bounded by streets, places, railroads, waterways or other
barriers, which set the area apart from adjacent areas.
   BLOCK FRONTAGE.  Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying
between the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway, or
other barrier.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A place of residence, which furnishes room, meals, laundry,
etc., for compensation, for three or more persons, but not exceeding 12
persons, not open to transients, in contradistinction to hotels, motels, and
restaurants.
   BOND, SUBDIVISION. A personal or corporate surety agreement between a
subdivider and such surety in favor of a governmental body guaranteeing the
completion of physical improvements according to plans and specifications
within the time prescribed by the subdivider's agreement.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter, support, enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels or
other property.
   BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of the principal and
accessory building, excluding open steps or terraces, unenclosed porches not
exceeding one story in height, or architectural appurtenances projecting not
more than two feet.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no structural connection with another
building.
   BUILDING LINE/BUILDING SET-BACK LINE. The line that established the minimum
permitted distance on a lot between the front line of a building and the street
right-of-way line.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the lot ground
level to the highest point of the roof for a flat roof, to the deck line of a
mansard roof, and to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip
and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit signed by the Director of Community Development or
his designee stating that the permitted improvements or proposed construction
complies with all applicable provisions of this chapter.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the lot on which said building is situated. Where a substantial part of
an accessory building is attached to the principal building in a substantial
manner, as by a roof, such accessory building shall be counted as a part of the
principal building.
   BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of goods,
wares, merchandise or services; the maintenance or operation of offices, or
recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
   CAMPING GROUND. A parcel of land used or intended to be used for temporary
occupancy by campers, or for temporary occupancy by or of recreational
vehicles, travel trailers, mobile homes, tents, cabins, or other temporary
accommodations.
   CAR WASH. A structure, or portion thereof, containing commercial facilities
for washing automobiles, using production line methods with a chain conveyor,
blower, steam cleaning device or other mechanical devices; also including a
manually operated car wash facility.
   CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including columbariums, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when
operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate signed by the Director of Community
Development or his designee stating that the land, building or structure
complies with the applicable provisions of the this code, and the said land,
building or structure is acceptable for the proposed use and occupancy.
   CITY. The City of Fishers, Indiana; the City Council.
   CLINIC. An establishment in which patients are admitted for medical or
dental study or treatment and in which the services of at least two physicians,
dentists or chiropractors and other medical practitioners are provided.
   CLUB. Buildings and facilities owned or operated by a person for a social,
educational, or recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render
a service, which is customarily carried on as a business.   
   COMMISSION or PLAN COMMISSION. The Fishers Advisory Plan Commission.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The complete plan, or any of its parts, for the
development of the city, prepared by the Commission and adopted in accordance
with IC 36-7-4-500 et seq. as it now or may hereafter be in effect.
   CONCEPT PLAN. A plan to be submitted by the applicant for a subdivision or
development of land, which shows the proposed land use, density, circulation,
natural characteristics and typical development of the area to be developed, as
well as adjacent affected properties, traffic, and all utilities.
   CONCEPTUAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A conceptual site map preparatory to the
preparation of the preliminary plat showing land uses, basic vehicular and
pedestrian traffic plans, drainage, and bufferyards.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use permitted within a district other than a principally
permitted use requiring approval of the Board of Zoning Appeals because of its
unusual nature.
   CONDOMINIUM. One or more structures, each structure having two or more
dwelling units or other units for occupancy and wherein provisions have been
made for separate ownership of each individual dwelling unit or occupancy unit.
A type of ownership.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Fishers, Indiana.
   COOPERATIVE. A type of ownership characterized by collective ownership of an
object by an organization whose members share in the profits or other benefits
of said collective ownership.
   DECIBEL. A unit of measurement of the intensity of loudness of sound. Sound
level meters are used to measure such intensities and are calibrated in
decibels.
   DETAILED DEVELOPMENT PLAN. Includes all elements of both a Conceptual
Development Plan and Preliminary Plat, in addition to the following: the
proposed locations and sizes of all buildings, structures, and yards;
topographic map; location and dimension of the building lines and easements;
widths and lengths of all entrances and exits to and from said real estate;
location of all adjacent or adjoining streets, service facilities; and other
improvements such as planting areas and bufferyards.
   DEVELOP. To make a development; also to grade, fill, install, construct or
otherwise cause to be changed, the parcel of ground, or structure for the
purpose of changing or modifying its occupancy or use.
   DEVELOPER or SUBDIVIDER. Any person engaged in developing or improving a lot
or group of lots or structures thereon for use of occupancy.   
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A drawing, including a legal or site description, of the
real estate involved, which shows the location and size of the following, both
existing and proposed: all buildings, structures and yards; location and
dimension of building lines and easements; widths and lengths of all entrances
and exits to and from said real estate; location of all adjacent or adjoining
streets, service facilities and other improvements such as planting areas, and
other amenities as hereinafter set forth.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT.  Any place or premises used for the sale,
dispensing, or serving of food, refreshments, beverages or services in
automobiles, including those establishments where customers may serve
themselves and may carry out or consume the above, on or off the premises.
   DWELLING. A building, or portion thereof, used primarily as a place of abode
for one or more human beings, but not including hotels or motels, lodging or
boarding houses or tourist homes.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
and occupied by one family only.
   DWELLING, TWO FAMILY. A detached residential building containing two
dwelling units designed for occupancy by not more than two families.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY.  A residential building designed for, or occupied
by, three or more families, with the number of families in residence not
exceeding the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on a weekly, monthly, or longer basis, and physically separated from
any other rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and
containing independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation, or persons, for specified purposes.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. Public or parochial pre-primary, primary, grade,
junior-high, high preparatory school or academy; junior college, college or
university, if public or founded or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a
religious or charitable organization.
   FAMILY. A group of one or more persons occupying a building and living as a
single housekeeping unit. No unrelated group living as a single housekeeping
unit shall consist of more than three persons.
   FARM. A tract of land comprising an area which is devoted to agricultural
operations, such as forestry, the growing of crops, pasturage, the production
of livestock and poultry, the growing of trees, shrubs and plants, and other
recognized agricultural pursuits and including accessory buildings essential to
the operation of the farm. Accessory buildings may include barns, equipment and
animal sheds, farm residences for the owner, operator or farm assistants,
roadside sales structure for the sale of products of the farm, and signs
displaying subject matter directly related to the name of the products of the
particular farm, but not including industrial or commercial operations or
structures.
   FEED LOT, CONFINEMENT FEEDING. Any operation involving the production of
livestock, fowl or related operations, indoors or outdoors, wherein more than
50 head of livestock or 1,000 fowl are kept within buildings or structures or
in paved or unpaved feed lots, wherein five square feet or less of feed lot
area is provided per laying hen, or eight square feet or less per hog weighing
225 pounds or less, or 15 square feet or less per sheep, or 50 square feet or
less per sow, or 50 square feet or less per feeder steer, or 100 square feet or
less per dairy cow, provided that this definition shall not apply to operations
involved with the processing of products of feed lot operations.
   FENCE. A freestanding device made of metal, masonry, composition or wood or
any combination thereof, resting on, or partially buried in the ground and
rising above ground level, and used for confinement, screening protection or
partition purposes.
   FILLING STATION, SERVICE STATION. Buildings and premises where gasoline,
oil, grease, batteries, tires, and automobile accessories may be supplied and
dispensed at retail. Uses permissible at a service station do not include major
mechanical and body work, painting, welding, storage of automobiles not in
operating condition, or other work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke, or
other characteristics to an extent greater than normally found in service
stations.
   FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. See Secondary Plat; the maps, drawings, and textual
description accompanying a subdivision plat showing the specific location and
design of improvements to be installed in the subdivision in accordance with
the requirements as stated in Chapter 153 of this code. In addition, the final
and formal presentation of the map, plan or record of a subdivision.
   FLASHPOINT. The lowest temperature at which a combustible liquid under
prescribed conditions will give off a flammable vapor which will burn
momentarily using the closed cup method.
   FLOOD or FLOOD WATER. The water of any lake or watercourse which is above
the banks and/or outside the channel and banks of such lake or watercourse.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. The flood plain areas that have not been adequately
protected from flooding by means of dikes, levees, reservoirs and other works
approved by the Indiana Natural Resources Commission, as identified on the
appropriate maps.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The land adjacent to a body of water which has been or may be
subject to periodic and predictable inundations of flood water at frequent
intervals, including but not limited to the regulatory flood. The flood plain
(FP) district contains the above area.
   FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT. A zoning district superimposed on all other districts
which creates greater restrictions to comply with flood protection measures.
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE. The elevation of the lowest point around the
perimeter of a building at which flood water may enter the interior of the
building.
   FLOODWAY. The area designated by the Indiana Natural Resources Commission as
the commission floodway. The floodway (FW) district contains the above area.
   FLOOR AREA NET. The total area, computed on a horizontal plane, used for a
particular occupancy category; exclusive of entrances, hallways, stairs and
other accessory areas used for ingress or egress.
   FREE BURNING. A rate of combustion described by a material which burns
actively and easily supports combustion.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or an attached portion of a
main building on the same lot as a dwelling for the housing of vehicles of the
occupants of the dwelling, including carports.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage other than a private garage.
   GARAGE, AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. A building other than a private garage used for
the care, repair, or equipment of automobiles, or where such vehicles are
parked or stored for remuneration, hire, or sale.
   GARAGE, TRUCK REPAIR. A building other than a private garage used for the
care, repair, or equipment of trucks, over one ton, or where such vehicles are
parked or stored for remuneration, hire, or sale.       
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The square foot area of a residential building within its
largest outside dimensions computed on a horizontal plane at the ground floor
level, exclusive of open porches, breezeways, terraces, garages and exterior
stairways.
   HEALTH OFFICER. Any officer of authority, Hamilton County Health Department,
and/or the Indiana State Board of Health.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use conducted entirely within a dwelling,
which use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for
dwelling purposes, and does not change the character or appearance thereof.
   HOSPITAL. An institution licensed by the State Department of Health and
providing health services primarily for in-patient medical or surgical care of
the sick or injured, and including related facilities such as laboratories,
out-patient departments, training facilities, and staff offices which are an
integral part of the facility provided such institution is operated by, or
treatment is given under direct supervision of a licensed physician. Types of
hospitals include general, mental, chronic disease and allied special hospitals
such as cardiac, contagious disease, maternity, orthopedic, cancer and the
like.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation, and which is open to transient guests, in contradistinction to a
boarding or lodging house.
   IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit signed by the Director of Community
Development stating that the proposed improvements comply with the applicable
provisions of this chapter.
   JUNK YARD. Any place at which personal property is or may be salvaged for
reuse, resale or reduction or similar disposition; and is owned, possessed,
collected, accumulated, dismantled, or assorted, including but not limited to,
used or salvaged base metal or metals, their compounds or combinations, used or
salvaged rope, bags, paper, rugs, glass, rubber, lumber, millwork, brick and
similar property except animal matter; and used motor vehicles, machinery or
equipment which is used, owned or possessed for the purpose of wrecking or
salvaging parts therefrom.
   JURISDICTION OF THE COMMISSION. The territory or area in which the Advisory
Plan Commission has statutory authority to adopt a Comprehensive Plan,
consisting of the present city limits and those contiguous areas which will
from time to time be annexed to the city.
   KENNEL. Any lot on which four or more dogs, or small animals, at least four
months of age are kept.
   LEASE. To rent, to permit the possession or use of right of possession, or
use for consideration of a lot, parcel, tract, land or group of lots, parcels,
tracts, or lands.
   LETTER OF CREDIT. An irrevocable letter of credit, issued by a bank on
behalf of a subdivider and providing cash surety to a governmental body,
guaranteeing the completion of physical improvements according to plans and
specifications, within the prescribed time of the subdivider's agreement.
   LOADING SPACES, LOADING and UNLOADING BERTHS. The off-street area required
for the receipt or distribution by vehicles of material or merchandise.
   LOT. A parcel, tract or area of land accessible by means of a street or
road. It may be a single parcel separately described in a deed which is
recorded in the Office of the County Recorder; or it may be a single parcel
separately described in a survey which is recorded in the Office of the County
Recorder; or it may include a parcel contained in a plat or subdivision of land
which is recorded in the Office of the County Recorder; or it may include parts
of, or a combination of such parcels, when adjacent to one another and used as
one. In determining lot area and boundary lines, no part thereof within the
limits of a street, either existing or proposed, shall be included. Further, a
lot is a parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and other
open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage and access on
an improved public street, or on an approved private street, and may consist of
a single lot of record; a portion of a lot of record; a combination of complete
lots of record, or complete lots of record and portions of lots of record, or
of portions of lots of record; or a parcel of land described by metes and
bounds, provided that in no case of division or combination shall any residual
lot or parcel be created which does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   LOT AREA. The horizontally projected area of a lot computed exclusive of any
portion of a street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the junction of and abutting two or more intersecting
streets.
   LOT COVERAGE. The total ground area of a lot usually expressed as a
percentage of the lot area that is covered, occupied or enclosed by the primary
structure of the lot.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of a lot, measured between side lot lines.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The linear distance of a lot measured at the front lot line
where said lot abuts a street, measured between side lot lines.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The case of an interior lot; a line separating the lot from
the street or place; and in the case of a corner lot, a line separating the
narrowest frontage of the lot from the street, except in cases where deed
restrictions in effect specify another street right-of-way line as the front
lot line.
   LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the front
lot line and, in the case of an irregular or triangular-shaped lot, a line ten
feet in length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the
front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder, or a parcel of land, the
deed to which has been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder prior to
the date of passage of this chapter of the code.
   LOT, REVERSED INTERIOR.  An interior lot, the front lot line of which is
formed by a street, which street also forms the side lot line of an abutting
corner lot. The corner lot is considered abutting even though separated from
the interior lot line by an alley.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT, WIDTH. The dimension of a lot, measured between side lot lines on the
building line.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS or ROADS.  An access road which parallels a street
of higher classification, providing access from abutting property and separated
from the street by a common dividing strip.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION, MINING. The extraction of, or mining of, sand, gravel,
rock and other earth materials, and/or minerals, and the processing, storage,
stockpiling, distribution and sale thereof.
   MOBILE HOME. A vehicle or other portable structure more than 26 feet in
length that is designed to move on the highway and designed or used as a
dwelling, as manufactured.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land on which two or more mobile homes are
regularly accommodated with or without charge, including any building or other
structure, fixture, or equipment that is used or intended to be used in
providing that accommodation.
   MOTEL. A building or detached buildings used as dwelling units containing
bedroom, bathroom and closet space, and each unit having convenient access to a
parking space either directly or through a lobby for the use of the unit's
occupants. The units, with the exception of the apartment of the manager or
caretaker, are devoted to the use of automobile transients. Motels may include
other accessory uses such as restaurants, swimming pools, meeting rooms, and
the like.
   NO ACCESS EASEMENT. Public easement along a public right-of-way across which
the access to the property is not permitted.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building or premises which does not conform in its use
or otherwise with all of the regulations of the district in which such building
or premises is located.
   NURSING HOME. A facility licensed by the State Board of Health, which
provides nursing services on a continuing basis; admits the majority of the
occupants upon the advice of physicians as ill or infirm persons requiring
nursing services; provides for licensed physicians services or supervision; and
maintains medical records. Such facilities may also provide other and similar
medical or health services, provided that no occupant requires security
restraint within the facility. Examples of nursing home facilities that provide
health services may include, if they comply with all the above criteria,
nursing homes, convalescent homes, maternity homes, rest homes, homes for the
aged, and the like.
   OCTAVE BAND. A narrow range of sound frequencies which classify sound
according to pitch. In the octave band analyzer the audible sound spectrum is
divided into eight octave bands.
   OCTAVE BAND ANALYZER. An electrical device used with the sound level meter
that sorts a complex noise or sound into the various octave bands.
   OPEN SPACE. The total horizontal area of a lot excluding the building area,
but including parking areas and recreational areas, provided, however, in
residential districts, said open space may include the useable roof area within
the project which has been improved for outdoor use of occupants, plus one-half
of that space, such as balconies, which may be open on its sides but not open
above to the sky.
   OPEN USE. The use of a lot without a building.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under the Comprehensive Plan.
   PARCEL. An ownership, lot plat, or part of an ownership, lot or plat.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open area, other than a street or alley designed
for use or used for the temporary parking of more than four motor vehicles when
available for public use, whether free or for compensation, or as an
accommodation for clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE. A space other than on a street or alley designed for use or
used for the temporary parking of a motor vehicle, and being not less than nine
feet wide and 20 feet long exclusive of passageways.
   PARTICULATE MATTER. Finely divided liquid or solid material which is
discharged and carried along in the air. This shall not include water droplets,
commonly called steam.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any guarantee which may be accepted in lieu of a
requirement that certain improvements be made before the Commission approves
the Record Plat, including by way of illustration, but not limited to,
subdivision bonds, irrevocable letter of credit, escrow agreements, deposit
agreements, and other similar collateral or surety arrangements approved as
valid and enforceable by the Commission.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied, officially designated space, other than a street
or alley, permanently reserved for use as the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. The map and supporting information indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision which is presented to the Commission for
consideration and approval in accordance with these regulations.
   PLAT, RECORD. A drawing, in final form, showing the subdivider's plan of
subdivision containing all information or detail required by law, and by these
regulations to be presented to the Plan Commission for approval, and which, if
approved, may be duly filed or recorded by the applicant in the Office of the
Hamilton County Recorder.
   PREMISES. A lot or plat including buildings thereon, if any.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL. Private, primary, grade, junior-high, high or preparatory
school or academy.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. Office of a member or members of a recognized
profession as defined by the United States Bureau of the Census.
   PROFESSIONAL OFFICE CENTER. An architecturally organized and functional
grouping of professional offices and appropriate associated and accessory uses
which is the central feature of a site plan composed of building area, parking
area, landscaped reservation and plantation, and other land features
appropriate for its use as a professional office enterprise, designed to serve
residential neighborhoods, and shall conform to the standards and requirements
of this chapter.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES PLAN. That part of the Comprehensive Plan, which shows the
locations of proposed fire station sites, existing and proposed school, park,
or recreational sites, city buildings and other public structures or site
locations for the use of the people of the city.
   PUBLIC UTILITY INSTALLATIONS. The erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance by public utilities, municipal department commissions or common
carriers of underground, surface or overhead gas, oil, electrical, steam,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants, towers and other similar equipment and accessories in connection
therewith, by public utility or municipal departments, commissions, or common
carriers, for the public health or safety or general welfare.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular, portable structure, including a travel
trailer, boat trailer and the like, built on a chassis, designed to be used as
a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes, having a body width
not exceeding eight feet.
   RESIDENTIAL TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a row of
a minimum of three attached units where no unit is located over any other unit
and is separated by one or more vertical common fire resistant walls.
   REPLAT. A subdivision or plat, the site of which has heretofore been platted
or subdivided with lots or parcels of land. It may include all or any part of a
previous subdivision or plat.
   RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISES. An operation or use which is inherent to,
or closely associated with, a farm or agriculture, but not including industrial
grain elevators, industrial mills, abattoirs, the manufacture of commercial
fertilizer and similar operations which are of an industrial nature. Also, a
restricted commercial enterprise is any similar operation which may cause
stream pollution by the disposal of wastes discharged into streams, thus
endangering water supply and health; release odors to the atmosphere, beyond
the boundary of the property, which may be strong and beyond the normal
expectancy of a farm operation; create any unusual or loud noises audible
beyond the boundaries of the property; emit poisonous and injurious fumes and
gases beyond the boundaries of the property; cause the emission of smoke,
particulate matter or cause any undue vibration or excessive glare or heat
beyond the boundaries of the property; or because of the location of its
facilities influence adversely the use of adjacent properties, either existing
or proposed.
   RINGELMANN NUMBER. The number of the area on the Ringelmann Chart that most
nearly matches the light-obscuring capacity of smoke. The Ringelmann Chart is
described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines Information Circular 6888, on which are
illustrated graduated shades of gray for use in estimating smoke density. Smoke
below the density of Ringelmann No. 1 shall be considered no smoke or
Ringelmann “0.”
   SERVICE BUILDING. A structure housing toilet, lavatory, and such other
facilities as may be required by this chapter.
   SHOPPING CENTER PLAN. An architectural and functional grouping of retail
stores, generally oriented around a super market or department store, and
appropriate associated and accessory uses, which is the central feature of a
site plan or development plan composed of building area, parking areas, access
streets and circulatory ways for vehicles and pedestrians, landscape
development and planting areas and other land features appropriate for its
operation as a business enterprise, designed to serve residential neighborhoods
or communities and which conforms to the requirements of this code.
   SLOW BURNING or INCOMBUSTIBLE. Materials which do not in themselves
constitute an active fuel for the spread of combustion. A material which will
not ignite, nor actively support combustion during an exposure for five minutes
to a temperature of 1200° F.   
   SMOKE. A suspension of fine particles, excluding water droplets, in a
gaseous plume, which obscure more or less the transmission of light.
   SMOKE UNIT. The number obtained when the smoke density in Ringelmann number
is multiplied by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
calculation, a Ringelmann density reading shall be made at least once a minute
during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the time
in minutes during which it is observed. The various products are then added
together to give the total number of smoke units observed during the entire
observation period.
   SOIL MAP. A National Cooperative Soil Survey prepared by U.S.D.A. Soil
Conservation Service in cooperation with Purdue Experiment Station and the
Hamilton County Soil and Water Conservation District.
   SPECIAL SCHOOL. Any school which has as its primary purpose the instruction,
care and rehabilitation of a typical or exceptional child or adult such that
the usual statutory educational requirements expressly or implicitly do not
apply.
   SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use which may be permitted in a district only if it
meets special conditions, and upon application, is specifically authorized by
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   STORY. That portion of a building, included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it. If there is no floor above it, then
the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it shall be the story.
   STORY, HALF. That portion of a building under a sloping, gable, hip, or
gambrel roof, the wall plates on at least two opposite exterior walls of which
are not more than three feet above the floor level of such half-story.
   STREET or THOROUGHFARE. A right-of-way, other than an alley, or place
dedicated or otherwise legally established to the public use, usually affording
the principal means of access to abutting property. A street may be designated
as a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, boulevard, road, avenue, drive, or other
appropriate name. A street shall also be identified according to type of use,
as follows in accordance with the Thoroughfare Plan in
Chapter 152.
      LOCAL STREETS, MARGINAL ACCESS, CUL-DE-SAC. A street used primarily for
access to abutting properties. Certain local streets may be marginal access
streets parallel to principal arterial streets, therefore, providing access
from abutting properties. Right-of-way shall be a minimum of 50 feet.
      INTERSTATE/EXPRESSWAY/STATE ROADS. Those roads designed for rapid
movements of large volumes of regional and interstate vehicular traffic. These
roads have limited controlled access, and are regulated by the state and the
federal Highway Departments of the Department of Transportation. These roads do
not fall under the authority of the city.
      MAJOR COLLECTOR. A street planned to facilitate the collection and
movement of vehicular traffic between minor collectors and thoroughfares,
usually located on the perimeter or boundaries of neighborhoods. These streets
are to be generally located on a one-half mile grid pattern. The minimum right-
of-way shall be 70 feet.
      MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. A street which serves high volume traffic corridors
and connects major population centers and traffic generators, with access
limited or controlled. In the case of this Thoroughfare Plan, this designation
applies only to S.R. 37, which is controlled by the Indiana State Highway
Commission.
      MINOR COLLECTOR. A street planned to facilitate the collection of traffic
from local streets, and to provide circulation within neighborhood areas and
convenient ways for traffic to reach major collectors or thoroughfares. The
minimum right-of-way shall be 70 feet.
      THOROUGHFARE. A street providing for through movement of large volumes of
traffic. Thoroughfare streets are intended to provide access to abutting
property from major and minor collectors, and are subject to necessary control
of entrances and exits for traffic movement, and where safety conditions
warrant. As a general principle, thoroughfares shall be located at
approximately one mile intervals in a north-south, east-west grid pattern,
except in congested areas where they may be located at more frequent intervals.
Minimum width of right-of-way for a thoroughfare shall be 90 feet. Partial
control of access to a thoroughfare shall be exercised so as to reduce the
number of intersections.
   STREET or ALLEY IMPROVEMENT. The construction of a street or alley to its
full thickness, commencing at the subgrade according to the specifications
contained in this chapter. The placing of a new surface over an existing paved
or closed surface street or alley shall not be considered as an improvement but
as maintenance.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A right-of-way which has the characteristics of a street,
as defined herein, except that it is not dedicated to the public use. A
driveway which is located on a lot and which serves only the use on that lot is
not considered as a private street.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines which delineate the
right-of-way of a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which required location on the
ground or attachment to something having a location on the ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the exterior walls or the roof.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person or persons, firm or corporation engaged in developing
or improving a tract of land which complies with the definition of a
subdivision as defined in this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The division of any parcel of land, into two or more contiguous
parcels or lots, for the purpose of immediate or future transfer of ownership,
as follows:
      (1)   Lots or parcels fronting on an existing street or road, and each of
which comprises less than five acres;
      (2)   Lots which do not front on an existing street, even though they may
exceed five acres (interior lots); or
      (3)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures, or groups of structures wherein there is
an allocation of land for streets or other spaces for common use by owners,
occupants, or lease holders; or easements for the extension and maintenance of
public utilities and facilities.
   (B)   The following divisions of land shall not be considered subdivisions:
      (1)   The division of land into parcels of five or more acres not
involving any new streets, easements of access, or extension of any utility;
and
      (2)   The sale or exchange of land between adjoining lot owners, where
such sale or exchange does not create additional building sites.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Comprehensive Plan, now or hereafter
adopted, which includes a plan for major streets and highways and sets forth
the location, alignment, dimensions, streets, highways, and other
thoroughfares.
   TOWNSHIP. Fall Creek Township and Delaware Township.
   TRADE or BUSINESS SCHOOL. Secretarial or business school or college when not
publicly owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship of a religious,
charitable or non-profit organization; or a school conducted as a commercial
enterprise for teaching instrumental music, dancing, barbering or hair
dressing, drafting, or for teaching industrial or technical arts.
   TRUCK SERVICE CENTER. An occupancy which provides especially for the
servicing of trucks, with incidental operations similar to those permitted for
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. 
   USE. The employment or occupation of a building, structure or land for a
person's service, benefit or enjoyment.
   VARIANCE, ZONING. A modification of the specific requirements of this
chapter granted by the Board of Zoning Appeals, in accordance with the terms of
this chapter for the purpose of assuring that no property, because of special
circumstances applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly
enjoyed by other properties in the same vicinity and district.
   VIBRATION. Oscillatory motion transmitted through the ground.
   VISION CLEARANCE ON CORNER LOTS. A triangular space at the street corner of
a corner lot, free from any kind of obstruction to vision between the heights
of three and 12 feet above established street grade, determined by a diagonal
line connecting two points measured 25 feet equidistant from the street corner
along each property line.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied
and unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
front of the principal building and the front lot line unoccupied other than by
steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts, and similar structures, the
depth of which is the least distance between the front lot line and the
building line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear of the principal building and the rear lot line unoccupied other than by
accessory buildings which do not occupy more than 30% of the required space,
and steps, walks, terraces, driveways, lamp posts, and similar structures, the
depth of which is the least distance between the rear lot line and the rear of
such principal building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the principal building and the side lot line,
extending from the front yard or from the front lot line where no front yard is
required, to the rear yard. The width of the required side yard is measured
horizontally at 90° with the side lot line, from the nearest part of the
principal building, except in cases where irregular or pie shaped lots are
located, then the width of the required side yard shall be an average of the
width of the area between the side lot line and the principal building measured
horizontally at 90° with the side lot line.
   ZONING MAP. A map or plan, also a part of the Zoning Ordinance, which
graphically demonstrates the areas, classification and boundaries of zoned
districts. This map is entitled “Zoning Map, Fishers, Indiana.”
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The chapter of the Comprehensive Plan, now or hereafter
adopted, which includes an ordinance and zoning map which divides the
jurisdiction of the commission into districts, with regulations, requirements
and procedures for the establishment of land use controls, specifically,
Chapter 151 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 092392, passed 12-28-92; Am. Ord.
031595, passed 4-15-95; Am. Ord. 120496A, passed 6-25-97; Am. Ord. 010699,
passed 1-20-99; Am. Ord. 060412, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 091514SA, passed 11-
17-14)
§ 150.06 PARK AND RECREATION MASTER PLAN AND INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT PLAN
2001 UPDATE ADOPTED.
   The Park and Recreation Master Plan and Infrastructure Improvement Plan,
2001 update is approved as an additional element of the Comprehensive Plan and
shall be incorporated by reference as if fully set out herein.
(Res. R070192, passed 7-1-92; Am. Res. R012302E, passed 1-23-02; Am. Ord.
062011E, passed 7-22-11)
§ 150.07 TOWN CENTER PLAN 2001 UPDATE ADOPTED.
   The Town Center Plan 2001 update is hereby adopted by reference as if fully
set out herein.
(Res. R01230F, passed 1-23-02; Am. Res. R080111A, passed 8-1-11)
§ 150.08 DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Development Guidelines plan is hereby adopted by reference as if fully
set out herein.
(Res. R022502C, passed 2-25-02)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.10 ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; CONTINUING AUTHORITY.
   The City Council hereby establishes an Advisory Plan Commission to promote
the orderly development of the city's governmental units and environs, pursuant
to §§
32.50 through
32.53 and IC 36-7-4-200 et seq. The Commission shall do the following:
   (A)   Make recommendations to the City Council concerning the adoption of
the comprehensive plan, ordinance and amendments and any other matter, within
the jurisdiction of the Commission, authorized by the advisory planning law.
   (B)   Render decisions concerning and approve plats or replats of
subdivisions and development plans for residential, commercial and industrial
uses.
   (C)   Without limitation, the Commission shall exercise authority for the
planning and recommendations of approvals for the improvements and subdivision
of the city and its jurisdictional area for the promotion of public health,
safety, morals, convenience, order or the general welfare and the sake of
efficiency and economy in the process of development, the Commission shall
prepare a comprehensive plan. In addition, it may formulate policies for the
development of public ways, public places, public structures, and public and
private utilities; the issuance of improvement location permits on platted and
unplatted lands; and the laying out and development of public ways and services
to platted and unplatted lands.
   (D)   Consider and review proposals with respect to change and amendments in
the Comprehensive Plan, and upon conclusion of such consideration including a
public hearing thereon, shall certify to the Board its conclusions, reports,
recommendations and resolutions concerning such matters.
   (E)   Prepare an annual report of its activities to the Council.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 150.11 RESPONSIBILITY OF CLERK.
   The Clerk of the city is hereby ordered and directed to keep on file, for
public inspection during regular office hours, two sets of the Comprehensive
Plan including maps, charts, reports and ordinances as referred to and
contained herein.   
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 150.12 AMENDMENTS.
   The Comprehensive Plan may be amended from time to time in accordance with
the procedure set forth in IC 36-7-4-511 and 36-7-4-607, and as it may be
amended by the Indiana General Assembly. However, the City Council may direct
the Plan Commission to prepare an amendment and submit it to a public hearing
within 60 days after the formal written request of the Council.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 150.13 FILING FEES; FORMS.
   Petitions shall be prepared on the forms provided by the Department of
Development and accompanied by the filing fees as hereinafter set out. Said
fees shall be paid to the Department of Development who shall forthwith pay
over said fee to the Controller to be credited to the General Fund of the city.
No part of the fee shall be returned to the petitioner. Until all fees have
been paid in full, no petition shall be processed by the Department of
Development.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 150.14 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ON FILE.
   The maps, charts, plans, reports and ordinances which comprise the
Comprehensive Plan are on file in the offices of the Clerk and the Department
of Development in the City Hall Building, and are available for public
inspection during regular hours.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 151: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
   
151.01   Adoption by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Ordinance 090605A for the City of Fishers, Indiana, Unified Development
Ordinance ("UDO") is hereby repealed. Ordinance 071618F is a replacement UDO,
including existing zoning maps and other materials that are incorporated by
reference as if fully set forth herein. An electronic copy of the complete,
updated UDO is available for review on the City of Fishers website at https://
online.encodeplus.com/regs/fishers-in/index.aspx.
(Ord. 071618F, passed 7-16-18; Am. Ord. 021819A, passed 2-18-19; Am.
Ord.021819B, passed 2-18-19; Am. Ord. 021819E, passed 3-18-19; Am. Ord.
041519B, passed 4-15-19; Am. Ord. 052019B, passed 5-20-19; Am. Ord. 052019F,
passed 5-20-19; Am. Ord. 071519, passed 7-15-19; Am. Ord. 071519A, passed 7-15-
19; Am. Ord. 081919C, passed 8-19-19; Am. Ord. 081919D, passed 8-19-19; Am.
Ord. 102119C, passed 10-21-19; Am. Ord. 112619B, passed 11-26-19; Am. Ord.
121619C, passed 12-16-19; Am. Ord. 012120B, passed 1-21-20; Am. Ord. 012120C,
passed 2-17-20; Am. Ord. 021720C, passed 5-18-20; Am. Ord. 111620, passed 1-19-
21; Am. Ord. 122120G, passed 2-15-2021; Am. Ord. 041921B, passed 6-21-21; Am.
Ord. 062121A, passed 7-19-21; Am. Ord. 062121B, passed 7-19-21; Am. Ord.
071921B, passed 8-16-21; Am. Ord. 101121H, passed 11-15-21; Am. Ord. 011822,
passed 2-21-22; Am. Ord. 041822E, passed 5-16-22; Am. Ord. 091922D, passed 10-
10-22; Am. Ord. 091922F, passed 10-10-22; Am. Ord. 121922E, passed 1-17-23; Am.
Ord. 091922C, passed 5-15-23; Am. Ord. 022023C, passed 5-15-23; Am. Ord.
041723D, passed 6-19-23; Am. Ord. 061923A, passed 8-18-23; Am. Ord. 061724,
passed 9-9-24; Am. Ord. 022425F, passed 4-21-25; Am. Ord. 031725C, passed 4-21-
25)
CHAPTER 152: TRANSPORTATION PLAN
Section
   
152.01   Adoption by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   A Transportation Plan for the territory within the jurisdiction of the City
of Fishers Advisory Plan Commission, consisting of maps, plans and details for
the development of the traffic systems of the city, for the purpose of guiding
and accomplishing the coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the
city and its jurisdictional area is adopted and incorporated as part of this
Code of Ordinances as if set out at length herein. The Transportation Plan is
on file in the office of the Clerk and available for public inspection during
regular office hours.
(Ord. 110199, passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord. 040405D, passed 9-12-05; Am. Ord.
121905C, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 081808A, passed 12-1-08; Am. Ord. 120610,
passed 1-3-11; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 153: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 154: BUILDING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Title
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Scope
Regulatory Codes
   
154.10   Adoption of building rules by reference
Permit Requirements
   
154.15   Permit required
   
154.16   Compliance with other regulations
   
154.17   Application for permits
   
154.18   Review of application
   
154.19   Inspections; assistance
   
154.20   Commencement of work; time period
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.25   Authority to administer and enforce
   
154.26   Certificate of occupancy
   
154.27   Records to be kept and filed
   
154.28   Right of entry
   
154.29   Stop work order
   
154.30   Right of appeal
   
154.31   Mandatory or injunctive relief
 
   
154.98   Violations
   
154.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   New commercial structures protected by automatic alarm or sprinkler systems,
see §
92.07
   Registration of building contractors, see
Ch. 115
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 TITLE.
   This chapter, and all chapters supplemental or amendatory hereto, shall be
known as the Building Code and may be cited as such, and will be referred to
herein as “this code.”
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this code is to provide minimum standards for the protection
of life, health, environment, public safety and general welfare, and for the
conservation of energy in the design and construction of buildings and
structures.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88)
§ 154.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code apply to the construction, alterations, repair,
use, occupancy, maintenance and additions to all buildings and structures,
other than “industrialized building systems,” as defined in IC 22-12-1-14, and
“mobile structures,” as defined in IC 22-12-1-17, which are certified pursuant
to IC 22-15-4, in the city.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
REGULATORY CODES
§ 154.10 ADOPTION OF BUILDING RULES BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   All building and fire safety rules of the Indiana Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission as set out in Title 675 of the Indiana
Administrative Code applicable to the City of Fishers are hereby incorporated
in this chapter and shall include later amendments to that code as the same are
published in the Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative Code with the
effective dates affixed to them.
   (B)   Copies of adopted building rules, codes and standards are on file in
the office of the Mayor or his or her designee.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before beginning construction, alteration,
repair, or demolition of any building or structure, using application forms
furnished by the Mayor or his or her designee, and all fees required by this
code shall be paid or receipted to the Controller. See
Chapter 35 for application fees.
   (B)   When applicable a permit shall be obtained, final inspection made, and
certificate of occupancy issued prior to occupancy of any Class 1 (commercial)
structures as defined in IC 22-12-1-4 within the city. See
Chapter 35 for applicable application fees. Depending on the change of use
(i.e. retail space to daycare; retail space to restaurant, an increase of
seating or number of children within a daycare, etc.) additional building code
requirements may need to be implemented to be in compliance. In any case, the
property owner is the ultimate responsible party for compliance and any fees
and/or fines.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.16 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   All work done under any permit shall be in full compliance with all
provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city pertaining thereto,
and in addition to the fees for permits, there shall be paid the fees
prescribed in such codes or ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.17 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for the foregoing purposes, unless the
application for a permit is accompanied by documents deemed necessary to
determine compliance, showing lot boundaries, and by plans and specifications
showing the work to be done. In addition, a copy of a Design Release, issued by
the State of Indiana pursuant to IC 22-15-3-1, shall be provided to the Mayor
or his or her designee before issuance of a permit for construction covered by
such Design Release.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 154.18 REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   Prior to the issuance of any building permit, the Mayor or his or her
designee shall:
   (A)   Review all permit applications to determine full compliance with the
provisions of this code.
   (B)   Review all building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building sites will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   (C)   Review building permit applications for major repairs within the flood
plain area having special flood hazards to determine that the proposed repair
uses construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant to flood
damage, and uses construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
   (D)   Review building permit applications for new construction or
substantial improvements within the flood plain area having special flood
hazards to assure that the proposed construction (including prefabricated and
mobile homes) is protected against flood damage, is designed (or modified) and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure,
flood damage, and uses construction methods and practices that will minimize
flood damage.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-09; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 154.19 INSPECTIONS; ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   After the issuance of any permit, the Mayor or his or her designee
shall make, or shall cause to be made, inspections of the work being done as
are necessary to insure full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
the terms of the permit. Reinspection of work found to be incomplete or not
ready for inspection are subject to assessment of reinspection fees as
prescribed in
Chapter 35.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department, or his designated representative,
shall assist the Mayor or his or her designee in the inspection of fire
suppression, detection and alarm systems and shall provide reports of such
inspection to the Mayor or his or her designee.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 154.20 COMMENCEMENT OF WORK; TIME PERIOD.
   The work or use authorized by a building permit shall commence within one
year of the date of issuance of such permit. Otherwise, the same shall lapse
and become null and void. All work so authorized shall be completed within 24
months from the date of issuance of the permit unless good cause for extending
the completion time is shown to the Mayor or his or her designee.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
154.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.25 AUTHORITY TO ADMINISTER AND ENFORCE.
   The Mayor or his or her designee is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce all of the provisions of this code. This includes the
discretion of determining whether this code has been complied with; and no such
provision shall be construed as giving any officer discretionary powers as to
what this code shall be, or power to require conditions not prescribed by
ordinances or to enforce this code in an arbitrary or discriminatory manner.
Any variance from adopted building rules is subject to review by the Indiana
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, pursuant to IC 22-13-2-7 (b),
and said variance is not effective until approved by the Commission.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 154.26 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any building or structure
erected, altered, repaired or intended for use as a Class 1 (commercial)
structure after the adoption of this chapter unless such building or structure
was erected, altered, repaired, inspected and found to be in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful to occupy any building or
structure unless a full, partial, conditional or temporary certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the Mayor or his or her designee. Application for
certificate of occupancy shall be made prior to final inspection for Class 1
structures and 24 hours prior to final inspection for Class 2 structures.
Approval for Class 1 structures as defined in IC 22-12-1-4 and Class 2
structures as defined in IC 22-12-1-5 must be obtained prior to the issuance of
the certificate of occupancy. Certificate of occupancy requests shall be
applied for by using forms furnished by the Mayor or his or her designee. The
fee schedule for a certificate of occupancy can be found in
Chapter 35.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.27 RECORDS TO BE KEPT AND FILED.
   All applications, descriptions, permits, certificates, and other supporting
documents pertaining to building permits or certificates of occupancy shall be
filed by the Mayor or his or her designee and become a permanent record of the
city.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 154.28 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Mayor or his or her designee or
his duly authorized representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises in the city to perform any duty imposed upon him by this
code.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 154.29 STOP WORK ORDER.
   Whenever any work is being done contrary to the provisions of this code, the
Mayor or his or her designee may order the work stopped by notice in writing
served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done, and
any such persons shall forthwith stop such work until authorized by the Mayor
or his or her designee to proceed with the work.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 154.30 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   All persons shall have the right to appeal the Mayor's or his or her
designee's decision first through the Board of Zoning Appeals for the city, and
then to the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission of Indiana in
accordance with the provisions of IC 22-13-2-7 and IC 4-21.5-3-7.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
2014 S-58
§ 154.31 MANDATORY OR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   The Director shall in the name of the city bring actions in the Circuit or
Superior Courts of Hamilton County, for mandatory and injunctive relief in the
enforcement of and to secure compliance with any order or orders made by the
Mayor or his or her designee, and any such action for mandatory or injunctive
relief may be joined with an action to recover the penalties provided for in
this chapter.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 154.98 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
lessee, sub-lessee, or occupant, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, remove, convert, demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building
or structure in the city without applicable permits and certificate of
occupancy.
(Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14 )
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalty. If any person, firm or corporation shall violate any
of the provisions of this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or
shall fail to perform any duty lawfully enjoined, within the time prescribed by
the Mayor or his or her designee, or shall fail, neglect or refuse to obey any
lawful order given by the Mayor or his or her designee in connection with the
provisions of this chapter for each such violation, failure or refusal, such
person, firm or corporation may be fined up to and including the maximum
penalty prescribed by IC 36-1-3-8(10), or may be subject to the civil penalty
provisions of division (B) of this section below. Each day of such unlawful
activity as is prohibited by the first sentence of this section shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 040688, passed 5-4-88; Am. Ord. 122109C,
passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
   (B)   Civil penalty. The city shall impose civil monetary fines or penalties
for violations of this chapter which may be enforced by the designated
enforcement entity in accordance with the procedures outlined in division (5)
below.
      (1)   Definitions. Terms used in this division (B) are defined as
follows:
         BOARD. Board of Zoning Appeals.
         CIVIL VIOLATION. The erection, alteration, enlargement, maintenance or
use of any building, structure or land in violation of any provision of the
zoning ordinance, the subdivision control ordinance, the sign ordinance, the
weed ordinance, and the building codes of the city applicable to such building,
structure or land in the zone in which it is located.
         DEPARTMENT. Department of Development.
         GRACE PERIOD. Extension of time granted for correction, termination or
cessation of a civil violation of this chapter.
         NOTICE OF VIOLATION. Notice issued by the Department.
         REPEATED CIVIL ZONING VIOLATION. A recurring violation at the same
location or a similar violation at a different location by the same responsible
party.
         RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any person, firm or corporation who (which) uses
property in violation of this chapter or knowingly permits another person, firm
or corporation to do so.
         SIGN ORDINANCE. An ordinance relating to sign regulations codified in
Chapter 151, the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO).
         SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE. An ordinance relating to subdivision
control regulations codified in Chapter 151, the Unified Development Ordinance
(UDO).
Editor's Note:
   The definition for “Subdivision Control Ordinance” is supplied per style. 
         WEED ORDINANCE. An ordinance relating to the cutting of weeds and
other vegetation in the city codified as §§
95.15 through
95.19 (Fishers Ordinance 12-3-73 and as amended by Fishers Ordinance #081689G
and as amended by Fishers Ordinance #062090D).
         ZONING OFFICIAL. The Mayor or his/her designee.
         ZONING ORDINANCE. Zoning ordinance of the city codified as
Chapter 151, the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO).
      (2)   Civil violations; exceptions. Any person, firm or corporation who
(which) uses property in violation of this chapter or knowingly permits another
person, firm or corporation to do so shall upon citation by the designated
enforcement entity be deemed to have committed a civil violation and shall pay
to the city a civil monetary fine in the amount prescribed in division (3)
below.
      (3)   Schedule of monetary fines.
         (a)   The civil monetary fine for each civil violation shall be no
more than $50 except as provided in division (b) below.
         (b)   For a repeated civil violation by the same violator, the
following fines shall apply:
               Second violation      $100
               Third violation         $150
               Fourth violation         $200
               Each Violation in
               excess of four         $500
         (c)   These civil violation fines to not preclude the civil violator
from responsibility of payment of costs incurred by the city if it is a
necessity for the city to enter onto a property to correct, terminate or cease
a violation in accordance with procedures outlined in this chapter.
      (4)   Citation for civil violations.
         (a)   The Mayor or his or her designee, upon verification of a civil
violation, may issue a civil citation to any responsible parties who commits a
civil violation. The citation may be served by personal service or by certified
mail or by placement in a conspicuous place on the property where the civil
violation occurs. If personal service of a civil violation is made by the Mayor
or his or her designee, said official will:
            1.   In a conspicuous manner, wear on his or her person
identification from the city; and
            2.   In a conspicuous manner, wear on his or her person
identification of his or her employment with the Department.
   The citation shall serve as notice to the responsible parties that said
party has committed a civil violation.
         (b)   No citation shall be issued unless the violator has been issued
a notice of violation with a minimum of one and a maximum of ten days before
the issuance of the citation in order to allow the violator the opportunity to
correct the violation and to come into compliance with the prescribed section
of the pertinent ordinance.
         (c)   The notice of violation shall include:
            1.   The date of issuance;
            2.   The name and address of the person charged;
            3.   The section number of the pertinent ordinance which has been
violated;
            4.   The nature of the civil violation;
            5.   The place and time at which the civil violation occurred.
            6.   The range of fines which could be assessed upon continued
noncompliance activity;
            7.   The specific time allowed in which to bring the civil
violation into compliance;
            8.   The name, business address and telephone number of the
official issuing the notice of violation; and
            9.   The date and time of the notice and the number of days given
on the notice.
         (d)   The citation shall be on a form adopted by the department and
shall include:
            1.   The date of issuance;
            2.   The name and address of the person charged;
            3.   The section number of the pertinent ordinance which has been
violated;
            4.   The nature of the civil violation;
            5.   The place and time at which the civil violation occurred;
            6.   The schedule of monetary fines to be assessed;
            7.   The name, business address and telephone number of the
official issuing the citation; and
            8.   The date and title of notice given and the number of days
given on notice.
         (e)   The date, time and location of the court in which the civil
violation shall be adjudicated shall be determined by the court which will send
notification thereof to the violator and the Mayor or his or her designee.
      (5)   Trial for civil violation.
         (a)   Upon the issuance of a citation, the Zoning Official shall
forward a copy of the citation to the designated enforcement entity and the
Hamilton County Court, Noblesville, Indiana shall schedule the case for trial.
            1.   The Corporation Counsel or his or her designee or the
Department is responsible for the enforcement of chapter.
            2.   All procedures will be in compliance with the Indiana Rules
for Civil Procedure and will adopt court cost recovery for infractions
according to the State of Indiana.
         (b)   In proceedings before the court for a civil violation:
            1.   By a preponderance of the evidence presented at the trial, the
designated enforcement entity has the burden of proving the civil zoning
violation and that the violator committed the infraction;
            2.   The violator may question all witnesses who appear for the
designated enforcement entity and may also produce evidence or witnesses on the
violator's behalf.
         (c)   A person found guilty of a civil violation is liable for the
fine, court costs and fees. No costs may be assessed against the designated
enforcement entity in any such action.
         (d)   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this section does not
preclude the designated enforcement entity from alternative relief from the
court in the same action or from seeking injunctive relief which is available
under the law of the State of Indiana or any other remedy in a separate action
for the enforcement of the pertinent ordinance.
         (e)   When a violator has been found guilty of a civil violation, the
court may impose additional civil penalties and grant appropriate relief to
abate or halt the violation, and the court may direct that payment of the civil
monetary fine or additional civil penalties be suspended or deferred under
conditions established by the court. If a violator fails to pay the civil
penalty or violates the terms of any other order imposed by the court, the
failure is contempt; and
         (f)   A change of venue from the Hamilton County Court shall not be
granted in such a case.
(Ord. 062090D, passed 8-22-90; Am. Ord. 120590A, passed 12-5-90; Am. Ord.
122109C, passed 2-1-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 155: IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT
Section
   
155.01   Improvement location permit
§ 155.01 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   Provisions regarding improvement location permits are found in the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) adopted by §
151.01 which is incorporated as if fully stated herein and those provisions
shall control.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 156: ADMINISTRATION, PERMITS AND FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose
Permit Requirements
   
156.10   Permits required
   
156.11   Filing application
   
156.12   Filing fees
   
156.13   [Reserved]
   
156.14   Filing fee penalty
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.19   Zoning procedures
   
156.20   Authority to administer; duties
   
156.21   Duties of City Council
   
156.22   Advisory Plan Commission
   
156.23   Director of Community Development
   
156.24   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
156.25   Clerk
   
156.26   Secretaries; administrative duties
   
156.27   Stay of work on appeal
   
156.28   Declaration of public nuisance upon violation
   
156.29   Remedies
Financing Road and Street Infrastructure for New Development
   
156.40   Establishment of impact zone
   
156.41   Zone improvement plan
   
156.42   Establishment of road impact fee
   
156.43   Credit in lieu of payment; exemptions
   
156.44   Impact fee due upon issuance of structural building permit
   
156.45   Lien rights established
   
156.46   Form of receipt
   
156.47   Appeals
   
156.48   Establishment of Road and Street Thoroughfare Fund
   
156.49   Use of impact fees collected pursuant to this subchapter
   
156.50   Establishment of Fishers Impact Fee Review Board
   
156.51   Compliance with House Enrolled Act No. 1467
   
156.52   Amendments and review
Financing Bridge Construction Infrastructure for New Development
   
156.60   Limitation on imposition of impact fee
   
156.61   Establishment of impact zone
   
156.62   Zone improvement plan
   
156.63   Establishment of bridge impact fee
   
156.64   Credit in lieu of payment; exemptions
   
156.65   Impact fee due upon issuance of structural building permit
   
156.66   Lien rights established
   
156.67   Form of receipt
   
156.68   Appeals
   
156.69   Establishment of Bridge Construction and Infrastructure Fund
   
156.70   Use of impact fees collected pursuant to this subchapter
   
156.71   Compliance with House Enrolled Act No. 1467
   
156.72   Amendments and review
 
   
156.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Registration of building contractors, see
Ch. 115
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and any ordinances supplementary or amendatory thereto shall be
known and cited hereafter as the Administration, Permit, and Fee Chapter.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80)
§ 156.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose, of this Administration, Permit, and Fee Chapter is to allow for
the development of the Fishers Advisory Plan Commission's jurisdictional area
in such a manner as to provide for the efficient, and organized administration
of this Title XV to promote the public welfare, health, and safety, and to
effectuate the efficient and economical use of public funds.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 156.10 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the Fishers Advisory Plan
Commission, no structure, improvement, or land use shall be altered, removed,
placed, erected, or located on platted or unplatted lands, unless said
improvements, structure or use, and its location conform to the requirements of
the Comprehensive Plan and all present codes and ordinances which pertain or
exercise controls on said improvements. In order to administer these
ordinances, the hereinafter scheduled applications and permits are required.
   (B)   No application shall be accepted, nor shall any permit be issued until
all fees are paid in accordance to the Fee Schedule. Further the applications,
permits, and applicable fees listed herein, reflect only those permits that are
required within the Comprehensive Plan and all codes and ordinances which
pertain or exercise controls on said improvements as set forth in division (A)
above, and all parties shall be aware that certain other ordinances are now in
existence which may require additional fees, applications and permits.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.11 FILING APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications shall be filed with the Controller, Secretary of the
Plan Commission, Secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals, or the Director of
Community Development or his or her designee, as required and in accordance
with the applicable provisions of this Title XV and any other ordinances of the
city.
   (B)   The applications shall include all exhibits, documents, plans,
specifications, agreements, proof of publication, legal notices, reports or
other pertinent data required by the said provisions, plus any other
information the applicant may deem important to the matter. Incomplete
applications shall be returned to the applicant, and the city shall not be
responsible for any delays caused by this action.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 060412, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.12 FILING FEES.
   (A)   Applications and petitions filed pursuant to the provision of this
chapter shall be accompanied by the filing fees specified pursuant to §
35.30, and shall be paid to the city and collected by the Department of
Community Development. All fees are due at the time of filing unless noted
otherwise. All related legal fees and public notice charges are the
responsibility of the applicant and are in addition to the basic fee.
Facilities and buildings for the city are required to follow procedures and
obtain appropriate permits at no fee.
   (B)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person failing to call for a required inspection shall be
assessed a penalty of $50 for each missed inspection payable before receiving
reinspection. Additional permits shall not be issued to any individual, firm or
corporation until all fee fines are paid.
      (2)   All construction or operations started or under way prior to
obtaining the required permits, inspections and certificates of occupancy shall
be assessed as follows:
 
(a) 1- and 2-family                    Double the original fee plus $100
    Multi-family                        
    commercial and industrial           
                                       
                                       Fee + $50 late fee within five (5) days
    All other (signs, pools, accessory after official notice of the violation
    buildings, decks, porch, room      from the Dept. of Community
(b) additions, barns, or storage       Development. The fee will be increased
    buildings, etc.)                   by $5/day as long as the violation
                                       continues, up to, but not to exceed
                                       $2,500.
 
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 7-11-83, passed 7-11-83; Am. Ord.
080686A, passed 8-6-86; Am. Ord. 020388, passed 3-2-88; Am. Ord. 080890A,
passed 1-23-90; Am. Ord. 040793, passed 11-17-93; Am. Ord. 080403B, passed 9-
15-03; Am. Ord. 060412, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am.
Ord. 102218G, passed 10-22-18)
§ 156.13 [RESERVED].
§ 156.14 FILING FEE PENALTY.
   Any person or persons, firm, or corporation or governmental unit who shall
initiate construction prior to obtaining an improvement location permit,
building permit or certificate of occupancy shall pay twice the amount of the
filing fee set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.19 ZONING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Intent.  In addition and prior to the procedure provided in IC §§ 36-
7-4 et seq., any petitioner seeking initial zoning, an amendment to a zoning
ordinance, or an amendment to the zone map shall present the petition to the
Council at a duly called and noticed meeting.
   (B)   First reading.  The petitioner shall appear before the City Council
for the first reading on all zoning ordinances or map changes prior to the Plan
Commission conducting a public hearing. During the first reading, the Council
shall provide the petitioner with feedback regarding the proposed zoning
ordinance.
   (C)   Voting.  The City Council may take action under IC §§ 36-7-4-606, 36-
7-4-607 or 36-7-4-608 only by a vote of at least a majority of all the elected
members of the body. Pursuant to IC §§ 36-7-4 et. seq., the Mayor shall have
veto authority over zoning matters addressed in IC §§ 36-7-4-606, 36-7-4-607 or
36-7-4-608.
(Ord. 121916H, passed 12-19-16)
§ 156.20 AUTHORITY TO ADMINISTER; DUTIES.
   (A)   The various and numerous provisions of the Comprehensive Plan, and all
codes and other applicable ordinances of the city included thereunder, shall be
administered by the appropriate board or commission of the city, and their
designated representative. The Director of Development or his designee shall
also have certain responsibilities in administering these codes. In addition to
administrative duties, it shall also be the responsibility of the boards,
commissions, and the Director of Development or his designee to enforce the
provisions of these codes.
   (B)   The municipal boards and commissions and their appointed
representatives shall administer these codes, with their respective duties as
hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.21 DUTIES OF CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Pursuant to city budget procedures, the Council shall establish
budgets for the Advisory Plan Commission and the Board of Zoning Appeals,
including, without limitation, funds for the management and operation of those
offices, commissions and boards, including secretaries and building inspectors.
   (B)   The Council may initiate amendments to the Comprehensive Plan, and all
codes and other applicable ordinances of the city included thereunder, in
accordance with §
150.12 of the Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   The Council's action is required for the adoption or rejection of all
annexation ordinances and for the establishment or amendment to all zoning
matters.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 060412, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.22 ADVISORY PLAN COMMISSION.
   The Advisory Plan Commission is established and its membership maintained
pursuant to IC 36-7-4-307(b). The Commission is responsible for the broad range
of responsibilities as set forth in §
150.10 of the Comprehensive Plan and state statutes, as amended.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.23 DIRECTOR OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The office of Director of Community Development is established and its
officer appointed by the Mayor pursuant to IC 36-4-9-4. He is responsible for,
but is not limited to the specific duties as set forth in or this section.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Community Development to
enforce this chapter and receive applications required by this chapter, issue
permits, and furnish the prescribed certificates. The Director shall examine
premises for which permits have been issued, and make necessary inspections to
see that the provisions of the chapter are complied with. The Director shall
enforce all provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city relating
to the construction, alteration, repair, removal, demolition, equipment, use
and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and structures, except as
may be otherwise provided for.
   (C)   The Director shall keep files on all activities of the Board of Zoning
Appeals, the City Council and the Plan Commission, relating to the subdivision
platting process, appeals, variances, special uses, development plans for
planned districts, zoning amendments (text and map changes), nonconforming use
determinations and zoning district boundary determinations. Said files shall
include, but not be limited to, application forms, newspaper published legal
notices, records of notice to adjoining and abutting property owners, plans and
other required or necessary information concerning the application and minutes
of the applicable body that pertain to the application.
   (D)   When requested by the Mayor or City Council, or when the interests of
the city so require, The Director shall make investigations in connection with
matters referenced in this chapter and render written reports on the same. For
the purpose of enforcing compliance with the applicable provisions of this code
and other ordinances of the city, the Director shall issue such notices or
orders as may be necessary.
   (E)   The Director of Community Development or his or her designee shall
keep careful and comprehensive records of applications, permits issued,
certificates issued, inspections made, reports rendered, and of notices or
orders issued. The Director shall retain on file copies of all papers in
connection with building work so long as any part of the building or structure
to which they relate may be in existence. All such records shall be open to
public inspection at reasonable hours.
   (F)   The Director shall submit an annual report to the Plan Commission,
Board of Zoning Appeals, City Council and Mayor. This report shall summarize
all of the above listed activities, plus all other information that he may deem
pertinent to his office, and duties.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 060412, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.24 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals is established and its membership maintained
pursuant to IC 36-7-4-902. The Board of Zoning Appeals' jurisdiction applies
exclusively to all land and land development within the corporate limits of the
City of Fishers, Indiana and any land within Delaware Township pursuant to the
previously adopted joinder agreement between Delaware Township and the city for
the purposes of planning and zoning. A separate division of the Board of Zoning
Appeals is hereby established and its membership maintained pursuant to IC 36-
7-4-1210(B) and its jurisdiction applies exclusively to the contiguous
unincorporated areas of Fall Creek Township within two miles of the city's
corporate limits exclusive of that territory in Fall Creek Township which lies
within the Noblesville annexation area pursuant to agreement between the City
of Fishers and the City of Noblesville. The Board of Zoning Appeals and its
division are responsible for those actions and duties set forth in the Unified
Development Ordinance ("UDO") incorporated by reference under §
151.01 and pursuant to applicable Indiana state law.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 010509C, passed 1-5-09; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17- 14)
§ 156.25 CLERK.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to retain the official copy of the Zoning
Code and all amendments thereto and the official zoning district map. All
official zoning materials shall be available for public viewing in the office
of the Clerk during normal office hours.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.26 SECRETARIES; ADMINISTRATIVE DUTIES.
   Both the Advisory Plan Commission and the Board of Zoning Appeals may have
secretaries for certain administrative duties relative to those bodies. The
secretaries' duties and responsibilities shall be established and set forth
within the rules and regulations of the Commission and Board.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80)
§ 156.27 STAY OF WORK ON APPEAL.
   After the owner of, or person in charge of the work on, a premises affected
has received notice that an appeal has been filed with the Board of Zoning
Appeals, the official or Board charged with the enforcement of the Zoning Code
may order the work stayed and call on the police power of the municipality or
county to give effect to that order.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80)
§ 156.28 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE UPON VIOLATION.
   Any building erected, raised, or converted, or land or premises used in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter may be declared to be a
common nuisance by the City Council and as such may be abated in such manner as
nuisances now are or hereafter may be abated under the existing law.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.29 REMEDIES.
   The city, or in an appropriate case, the Director of Development or his
designee, the Advisory Plan Commission, the Board of Zoning Appeals, or other
representative of the city, can seek all legal, equitable and special remedies
against any person or persons, firm or corporation, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter by any of the following means:
   (A)   Suit for Injunction. The Board of Zoning Appeals, the Advisory Plan
Commission, the Director of Development or his designee, or any designated
enforcement official or any person, persons, firm or corporation, jointly or
severally aggrieved, may institute a suit for injunction in the Circuit or
Superior Court of Hamilton County to restrain an individual or governmental
unit from violating the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Mandatory Injunction. The Advisory Plan Commission or the Board of
Zoning Appeals may also institute a suit for mandatory injunction directing any
person or persons, firm or corporation, or governmental unit to remove any
structural or improvement erected or constructed in violation of the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
FINANCING ROAD AND STREET INFRASTRUCTURE FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT
§ 156.40 ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPACT ZONE.
   There is hereby established one road and street Infrastructure Impact Zone,
the borders of which are coterminus with the existing corporate borders of the
city and, as they may be extended from time to time through annexation, and,
over which the city exercises planning and zoning jurisdiction. In this regard,
the City Council specifically finds that there is a functional relationship
between the components of the road and street Thoroughfare Element of the
Traffic Impact Analysis and that such road and street Thoroughfare
Infrastructure Plan provides a reasonably uniform benefit to all of the
citizens throughout the impact zone as of the adoption of this subchapter. The
Council further finds that all areas within the impact zone are contiguous as
required in IC 36-7-4-1316. Except as provided below, this subchapter shall
apply uniformly to all developments within the Impact Zone hereby established
for which the city may require a structural building permit and which creates a
need for a new and additional infrastructure. This suchapter shall not apply
to:
   (A)   Developments meeting the requirements set forth in IC 36-7-4-1322(g);
   (B)   Improvements which do not require a structural building permit;
   (C)   Improvements which do not create a need for new and additional
infrastructure, including the erection of a sign, construction of accessory
buildings, structures or fences or the alteration, renovation or expansion of
an improvement where the use, or intensity thereof, has not changed;
   (D)   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed improvement,
provided that the replacement improvement does not create a need for new and
additional infrastructure over and above the infrastructure needed by the
original improvement prior to the destruction or partial destruction thereof.
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 121791C, passed 12-17-91; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.41 ZONE IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   In accordance with the city’s Comprehensive Plan, and as a
precondition to the amendment of this subchapter, the city undertook a
comprehensive and detailed traffic impact analysis performed by A&F Engineering
Co., Inc. (the “study”). The study constitutes a zone improvement plan pursuant
to IC 36-7-4-1300 et seq. The city hereby adopts the study as its zone
improvement plan and finds that the study contains the following elements:
      (1)   Reasonable estimates relating to the nature and location of
development that is expected within the impact zone during the planning period,
which, for the purposes of this subchapter is defined to be a period of five
years commencing with the date of adoption hereof;
      (2)   A reasonable determination of the community level of service for
the impact zone;
      (3)   A reasonable determination of the current level of service provided
within the impact zone;
      (4)   A reasonable estimate of the nature, location, sequencing, and
timing of the road and street thoroughfare requirements and costs necessary to
provide the community level of service for the developments contemplated in
division (A)(1) of this section;
      (5)   A reasonable estimate of the share of the road and thoroughfare
costs identified in division (A)(4) of this section that will be used to:
         (a)   Raise the current level of service for existing development or
provide service to existing development; or
         (b)   Provide service to new development;
      (6)   A reasonable estimate of revenues that:
         (a)   Are from sources other than impact fees; and
         (b)   Will be used to finance the cost identified in division (A)(5)
(a) of this section;
      (7)   A description of the nature and location of existing infrastructure
in the impact zone; and
      (8)   A general description of the sources and amounts of money used to
pay for infrastructure during the previous five years.
   (B)   Additionally, the City Council hereby specifically adopts the zone
improvement plan as an official part of the city’s Comprehensive Plan, pursuant
to IC 36-7-4-500 et seq. and 36-7-4-1318. A copy of the study is available for
inspection at Fishers City Hall.
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 070297, passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord.
071904, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 071706A, passed 9-5-06; Am. Ord. 062110,
passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 111521E, passed 12-
20-21)
§ 156.42 ESTABLISHMENT OF ROAD IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   Based upon the study, the City Council determined the cost per 24-hour
trip to be in the amount of $399.42. The number of 24-hour trips are to be
based upon calculations taken from the “Trip Generation Manual” (most recent
edition thereof), a study published by the Institute of Transportation
Engineers.
   (B)   If any parcel of real estate considered in the creation of the zone
improvement plan undergoes a change in use, redevelopment, or a modification
that requires an improvement location permit and/or a structural building
permit and creates a need for new infrastructure, an impact fee shall only be
assessed for the increase in the burden or infrastructure.
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 010892, passed - -; Am. Ord. 070297,
passed 1-24-00; Am. Ord. 071904, passed 11-8-04; Am. Ord. 112204C, passed 12-6-
04; Am. Ord. 071706A, passed 9-5-06; Am. Ord. 062110, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord. 111521E, passed 12-20-21)
§ 156.43 CREDIT IN LIEU OF PAYMENT; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person or entity obligated to pay a fee pursuant to the terms of
this subchapter shall have the option of financing, constructing and dedicating
road and street thoroughfare infrastructure instead of making all or part of
any impact fee payment which may be due, so long as such financing,
construction and dedication are accomplished pursuant to the thoroughfare
improvement plan of the city, and in accordance with the road and street
specifications for such road or street to be improved in force within the
city's jurisdiction at the time. Such fee payer, or other person or entity
providing the infrastructure or improvement, shall be given credit upon a
verified certification from a registered engineer or architect or a contractor
of the actual costs of planning, financing, constructing and dedicating such
road and street thoroughfare improvements to the city. Such certification shall
be presented prior to the issuance of the improvement location permit. In the
event the actual costs of such planning, financing, construction and dedication
do not equal the amount of the impact fee due pursuant to the calculation
provided for in the schedule set forth in §
156.42, the remaining balance shall be due in accordance with the provisions
stated hereinafter.
   (B)   Credits against impact fees otherwise due shall be allowed pursuant to
this section for all infrastructure and improvements constructed or furnished
in accordance with IC 36-7-4-1313 and IC 36-7-4-1335 since January 1, 1989. In
addition, a fee payer or other person or entity responsible for installing
infrastructure or improvements may designate in writing a method of allocating
its credits to future fee payers who may be successors in interest to the
credits earned by the fee payer or others, as part of the certification
provided for above.
   (C)   Any person or entity otherwise obligated to pay the fee established by
this subchapter whose property was totally or partially destroyed by fire,
storm or other casualty beyond their control, shall be exempt from said fee if
they repair or replace the destroyed structure without creating a burden on
infrastructure greater than the burden imposed by the destroyed structure. In
the event of such additional burden, the fee shall be calculated based only on
the increased burden created by the structure.
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.44 IMPACT FEE DUE UPON ISSUANCE OF STRUCTURAL BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   The impact fee imposed pursuant to the terms of this subchapter shall
be due and payable upon the issuance of a structural building permit by the
city. In this regard, it is understood that the structural building permit is
synonymous with the term "structural building permit" as that term is used in
IC 36-7-4-1323, in that the issuance of a structural building permit authorizes
the applicant to commence construction activities, structural and otherwise.
The entire fee which is calculated pursuant to the terms of this subchapter
shall be due at said time unless the amount of the fee upon calculation is
greater than $5,000, in which case an installment plan may be requested by the
applicant in accordance with the terms set forth in IC 36-7-4-1324 (a), (b),
(c) and (d). The Fishers Impact Fee Review Board, established hereinafter,
shall establish specific rules consistent with said code provisions for
installment payments. The interest rate on any installment plan or deferred
payment shall be the prejudgment rate of interest set forth in the Indiana Code
as from time to time amended.
   (B)   If a fee payer requests, the amount of the impact fee shall be
assessed upon the voluntary submission of a development plan or upon the
issuance of the improvement location permit, whichever is earlier. For purposes
of this section, "assessment" means the act of calculating the amount of the
impact fee which shall be due. The city shall make such assessment within 30
days of the date of such voluntary request or at the issuance of the
improvement location permit with or without a request.
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 121791C, passed 12-17-91; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.45 LIEN RIGHTS ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-1325, the city acquires a lien against the real estate
which is the subject of the impact fee. Upon adoption, this subchapter shall be
recorded, and, thereafter, it shall constitute constructive notice of the lien
rights of the city. The city may, in its discretion, file a specific instrument
setting forth its lien rights with respect to a parcel of real estate which is
the subject of an installment payment of an impact fee, and such instrument
shall constitute actual notice in addition to the constructive notice provided
for by the recording of this subchapter.
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.46 FORM OF RECEIPT.
   The Controller shall issue a receipt for any and all impact fees collected,
and the form of such receipt shall be as follows:
      Received of  (fee payer)  , this      day of         , the sum of $
        in (full) (partial) satisfaction of impact fees due pursuant to
Ordinance No. 09-18-91C relating to improvements to be constructed on the real
estate described on Exhibit A, attached hereto, made part hereof, and subject
to lien rights in favor of the City of Fishers in the event of partial payment
with payments remaining due. The remaining balance due (if any) is in the
following amount: $           . This impact fee is dedicated to the creation of
the following infrastructure element in accordance with the Zone Improvement
Plan:                 
                                         
Clerk, City of Fishers
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.47 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any fee payer who believes itself to be aggrieved by the calculation
of the impact fee, may appeal from such calculation to the Fishers Impact Fee
Review Board who shall conduct a hearing with regard thereto. At such hearing,
the fee payer shall bear the burden of going forward with the evidence and
shall present evidence addressing either of the following propositions:
      (1)   A fact assumption used in determining the amount of the impact fee
is incorrect; or
      (2)   The amount of the impact fee is greater than the amount allowed
under IC 36-7-4-1320, 36-7-4-1321 and 36-7-4-1322.
   (B)   Upon conclusion of the presentation of evidence, the Fishers Impact
Fee Review Board shall make a determination within not more than 30 days, upon
the facts presented and may make such adjustments in the impact fee as they
believe are appropriate under the circumstances, if any.
   (C)   An appeal under this section must be filed not later than 30 days
after the issuance of the structural building permit. The appeal shall be
initiated with the filing of a Petition for Review with the Controller's
office, together with a filing fee in the amount of $100. The filing fee shall
be refunded in full if the Petition for Review is granted and the impact fee is
eliminated, reduced or adjusted by the Fishers Impact Fee Review Board, by
independent action of the city, or by a court having jurisdiction; and if the
reviewing body determines that the amount of the fee, reductions, or credits
were arbitrary or capricious. The Petition for Review shall be in a form
calculated to inform the Fishers Impact Fee Review Board of the nature of the
complaint, the parties to the action, and the relief requested. In addition,
the petition shall describe the new development on which the impact fee has
been assessed, all facts related to the assessment of the impact fee, and the
reasons the petitioner believes that the amount of the impact fee assessed is
erroneous or is greater than the amount allowed by the fee limitations set
forth in the enabling statute.
   (D)   The city shall not deny the issuance of a structural building permit
on the basis that the impact fee has not been paid, or, condition issuance of
the permit on the payment of the impact fee. If the impact fee totals $1,000 or
less, the city may require the fee payer to pay the impact fee or initiate an
appeal under this section before the structural building permit is issued.
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.48 ESTABLISHMENT OF ROAD AND STREET THOROUGHFARE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Town Road and Street Thoroughfare
Fund. This Fund shall be a nonreverting City Road and Street Thoroughfare Fund
and shall receive any and all sums collected pursuant to this subchapter to be
utilized in connection with the purposes set forth herein. Said Fund shall
consist initially of one account based upon the current existence of one Impact
Zone. In the event, and only in the event, that an additional Impact Zone is
created hereafter, a separate account shall be maintained for each separate
Impact Zone established within the city. Interest earned on the Fund or on any
account within the Fund shall be deposited and maintained within the Fund or
the separate account. The Controller shall maintain records of the status of
the Fund or any account which may be established therein, and shall make an
annual report of said Fund and accounts which shall be available to the public
in general and fee payers, upon request, in particular.
   (B)   Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-1332 (e), the Controller is designated as the
city official responsible to for acting upon refund requests. In order to
facilitate refunds when they may be due, the Controller shall identify the
purpose of any impact fee paid in order that a refund, if any, may be paid from
the Fund or account into which the fee was originally deposited.
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.49 USE OF IMPACT FEES COLLECTED PURSUANT TO THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   Any and all fees collected pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter may
be utilized for the following purposes only by the city, acting by and through
the Public Works and Safety Board, which, for the purpose of this subchapter is
identified as the "infrastructure agency" contemplated by IC 36-7-4-1317:
   (A)   Providing funds to be utilized by the city for the purpose of paying
the capital costs of a new road and street infrastructure that is necessary to
serve the new development within the corporate limits of the city and that is
identified in the Zone Improvement Plan;
   (B)   An amount not to exceed 5% of the annual collections of the fee to be
utilized for expenses incurred by the city for the consulting services used to
establish this subchapter;
   (C)   To pay any refund due pursuant to the terms of this subchapter;
   (D)   To pay the debt service cost on an obligation issued to provide new
road and street infrastructure described in division (A) above.
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.50 ESTABLISHMENT OF FISHERS IMPACT FEE REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Fishers Impact Fee Review Board. Pursuant
to IC 36-7-4-1338. each of the three citizen members comprising the Board shall
be appointed by the Mayor. A member of the Fishers Impact Fee Review Board may
not be a member of the Fishers Advisory Plan Commission. One member of the
Fishers Impact Fee Review Board shall be a real estate broker licensed in the
state. One member shall be an engineer licensed in the state. The third member
shall be a certified public accountant. Each member shall serve at the pleasure
of the Mayor for calendar year terms commencing with his or her initial
appointment and concluding on December 31 of the year in which he or she is
appointed, unless reappointed.
   (B)   In the event of a conflict of interest, or other condition which
causes a duly appointed member of the Fishers Impact Fee Review Board to
disqualify himself or herself on any matter before the Board, such member shall
notify the Mayor in writing of their intent not to participate in such matter.
Thereafter, the Mayor may appoint a replacement member for the limited purpose
of hearing that petition for which the regular member is disqualified. Any such
replacement member shall meet the qualifications of the member he or she is
replacing.
   (C)   The Fishers Impact Fee Review Board shall have only those duties and
responsibilities established in IC 36-7-4-1338, as amended. Upon the
organization of the Fishers Impact Fee Review Board, the members shall
establish rules of procedure to the extent they are consistent with state law,
and, specifically, to provide the ways and means to carry out the specific
provisions of the enabling statute regarding petitions for review, refunds,
credits, and the like. Said rules shall specifically provide that in the event
that no development occurs, or, only a portion of the anticipated development
occurs, a refund in whole or in part of such fee paid shall be made, with
interest. The Board may impose reasonable requirements to insure that, in fact,
no development has occurred, or something less than what was paid for is all
that will occur on the real estate which was the subject of the initial
assessment.
   (D)   Members of the Fishers Impact Fee Review Board shall serve without
compensation. At their first meeting, they shall elect from their membership a
chairperson who shall serve until his or her replacement has been duly elected.
At the first meeting after January 1 in each year, the membership shall elect
from the then duly appointed members a chairperson. The chairperson shall be
responsible for conducting the business of the Board.
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.51 COMPLIANCE WITH HOUSE ENROLLED ACT NO. 1467.
   The City Council specifically acknowledges the existence of a law adopted by
the General Assembly of the state which regulates the imposition of impact fee
ordinances by municipal corporations within the state. It is the intent of the
city to comply with such legislation, and this subchapter shall be construed in
all respects to be consistent with the Act. The substantive and procedural
requirements of IC 36-7-4-1300 et seq. shall control in the event of conflicts,
which are unintended by the City Council.
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.52 AMENDMENTS AND REVIEW.
   The impact fee provided for herein is based upon data which, in large part,
is subject to inflation and other economic and market forces over which the
city has no control. The City Council shall, therefore, not less than once each
year, cause a review to be made by city staff or consultants as may be
required, to determine the continuing validity of the Impact Fee, the Impact
Zone, and the Zone Improvement Plan. The Council shall consider and adopt such
amendments as are necessary to cause a substantive compliance with the rational
nexus test to continue, to insure that procedural due process is maintained or
enhanced and to insure that this subchapter meets the requirements of the IC
36-7-4-1300 series. To the extent required by the facts and circumstances, this
process shall include the steps necessary to update the Zone Improvement Plan
and the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 09-03-91E, passed 11-6-91; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
FINANCING BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION INFRASTRUCTURE FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT
§ 156.60 LIMITATION ON IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEE.
   This subchapter shall expire and become void five years after its effective
date as required by IC 36-7-4-1340, unless action is undertaken to extend its
life consistent with the provisions of IC 36-7-4-1340 which contemplates a
replacement ordinance.
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10)
§ 156.61 ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPACT ZONE.
   There is hereby established one bridge construction and infrastructure
impact zone, the borders of which are co-terminus with the existing corporate
borders of the city and as they may be extended from time to time through
annexation, and over which the city exercises planning and zoning jurisdiction.
In this regard, the City Council specifically finds that there is a functional
relationship between the components of the Zone Improvement Plan and the Bridge
Impact Fee Analysis, and that the plan provides a reasonably uniform benefit to
all of the citizens throughout the impact zone as of the adoption of this
subchapter. The City Council further finds that all areas within the impact
zone are contiguous as required in IC 36-7-4-1316. Except as provided below,
this subchapter shall apply uniformly to all developments within the impact
zone hereby established for which the city may require a structural building
permit and which creates a need for new and additional bridge construction and
infrastructure. This subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Developments meeting the requirements set forth in IC 36-7-4-1322(g);
   (B)   Improvements which do not require a structural building permit;
   (C)   Improvements which do not create a need for new and additional
infrastructure, including the erection of a sign, construction of accessory
buildings, structures or fences or the alteration, renovation or expansion of
an improvement where the use, or intensity thereof, has not changed; and
   (D)   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed improvement,
provided that the replacement improvement does not create a need for new and
additional infrastructure over and above the infrastructure needed by the
original improvement prior to the destruction or partial destruction thereof.
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.62 ZONE IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   In accordance with the city’s Comprehensive Plan, and as a
precondition to the amendment of this subchapter, the city undertook a
comprehensive and detailed traffic impact analysis performed by A&F Engineering
Co., Inc. (the “study”). The study constitutes a zone improvement plan pursuant
to IC 36-7-4-1300 et seq. The city hereby adopts the study as its zone
improvement plan and finds that the study contains the following elements:
      (1)   Reasonable estimates relating to the nature and location of
development that is expected within the impact zone during the planning period,
which, for the purposes of this subchapter is defined to be a period of five
years commencing with the date of adoption hereof;
      (2)   A reasonable determination of the community level of service for
the impact zone;
      (3)   A reasonable determination of the current level of service provided
within the impact zone;
      (4)   A reasonable estimate of the nature, location, sequencing, and
timing of the bridge design, engineering and construction requirements and
costs necessary to provide the community level of service for the developments
contemplated in division (A)(1) of this section;
      (5)   A reasonable estimate of the share of the bridge design,
engineering and construction requirements and costs identified in division (A)
(4) of this section that will be used to:
         (a)   Raise the current level of service for existing development or
provide service to existing development; or
         (b)   Provide service to new development;
      (6)   A reasonable estimate of revenues that:
         (a)   Are from sources other than impact fees; and
         (b)   Will be used to finance the cost identified in division (A)(5)
(a) of this section;
      (7)   A description of the nature and location of existing infrastructure
in the impact zone; and
      (8)   A general description of the sources and amounts of money used to
pay for infrastructure during the previous five years.
   (B)   Additionally, the City Council hereby specifically adopts the zone
improvement plan as an official part of the city’s Comprehensive Plan, pursuant
to IC 36-7-4-500 et seq. and 36-7-4-1318. A copy of the study is available for
inspection at Fishers City Hall.
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
111521E, passed 12-20-21)
§ 156.63 ESTABLISHMENT OF BRIDGE IMPACT FEE.
   (A)   Based upon the study, the City Council determined the cost per 24-hour
trip to be in the amount of $16.19. The number of 24-hour trips are to be based
upon calculations taken from the “Trip Generation Manual” (most recent edition
thereof), a study published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers.
   (B)   If any parcel of real estate considered in the creation of the zone
improvement plan undergoes a change in use, redevelopment, or a modification
that requires an improvement location permit and/or a structural building
permit and creates a need for new infrastructure, an impact fee shall only be
assessed for the increase in the burden or infrastructure.
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14; Am. Ord.
111521E, passed 12-20-21)
§ 156.64 CREDIT IN LIEU OF PAYMENT; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person or entity obligated to pay a fee pursuant to the terms of
this subchapter may have the option of financing, constructing and dedicating
bridge infrastructure in the form of bridges owned and operated by a private
entity for the public benefit, all as described and defined in the Zone
Improvement Plan, instead of making all or part of any impact fee payment which
may be due, so long as such financing, construction and dedication are
accomplished pursuant to the Zone Improvement Plan of the city, and in
accordance with the bridge construction and infrastructure specifications to be
improved in force within the city's jurisdiction at the time. Such fee payer,
or other person or entity providing the infrastructure or improvement, shall be
given credit for the actual costs of planning, financing, constructing such
bridge construction and infrastructure to the city. Such request for credit
shall be presented prior to the issuance of the structural building permit. In
the event the actual cost of such planning, financing, and construction do not
equal the amount of the impact fee due pursuant to the calculation provided for
in the schedule set forth in §
156.63 hereof, the remaining balance shall be due in accordance with the
provisions stated hereafter.
   (B)   Credits against impact fees otherwise due shall be allowed pursuant to
this section for all infrastructure and improvements constructed or furnished
in accordance with IC 36-7-4-1313 and IC 36-7-4-1335 since January 1, 1989. In
addition, a fee payer or other person or entity responsible for installing
infrastructure or improvements may designate in writing a method of allocating
its credits to future fee payers who may be successors in interest to the
credits earned by the fee payer or others, as part of the certification
provided for above.
   (C)   Any person or entity otherwise obligated to pay the fee established by
this subchapter whose property was totally or partially destroyed by fire,
storm or other casualty beyond their control, shall be exempt from said fee if
they repair or replace the destroyed structure without creating a burden on
infrastructure greater than the burden imposed by the destroyed structure. In
the event of such additional burden, the fee shall be calculated based only on
the increased burden created by the structure.
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.65 IMPACT FEE DUE UPON ISSUANCE OF STRUCTURAL BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   The impact fee imposed pursuant to the terms of this subchapter shall
be due and payable upon the issuance of a structural building permit by the
city. In this regard, it is understood that the structural building permit is
synonymous with the term "structural building permit" as that term is used in
IC 36-7-4-1323, in that the issuance of a structural building permit authorizes
the applicant to commence construction activities, structural and otherwise.
The entire fee which is calculated pursuant to the terms of this subchapter
shall be due at said time unless the amount of the fee upon calculation is
greater than $5,000, in which case an installment plan may be requested by the
applicant in accordance with the terms set forth in IC 36-7-4-1324(a), (b),
(c), and (d). The City of Fishers Impact Fee Review Board shall establish
specific rules consistent with said code provisions for installment payments.
The interest rate on any installment plan or deferred payment shall be the
prejudgment rate of interest set forth in the Indiana Code as from time to time
amended.
   (B)   If a fee payer requests, the amount of the impact fee shall be
assessed upon the voluntary submission of a development plan or upon the
issuance of the structural building permit, whichever is earlier. For purposes
of this section, '"assessment" means the act of calculating the amount of the
impact fee which shall be due. The city shall make such assessment within 30
days of the date of such voluntary request or at the issuance of the structural
building permit with or without a request.
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.66 LIEN RIGHTS ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-1325, the city acquires a lien against the real estate
which is the subject of the impact fee. Upon adoption, this subchapter shall be
recorded, and, thereafter, it shall constitute constructive notice of the lien
rights of the city. The city may, in its discretion, file a specific instrument
setting forth its lien rights with respect to a parcel of real estate which is
the subject of an installment payment of an impact fee, and such instrument
shall constitute actual notice in addition to the constructive notice provided
for by the recording of this subchapter.
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.67 FORM OF RECEIPT.
   The Controller shall issue a receipt for any and all impact fees collected,
and the form of such receipt shall be as follows:
      Received of  (fee payer) , this      day of         , the sum of
$         in (full) (partial) satisfaction of impact fees due pursuant to
Ordinance No.                relating to improvements to be constructed on the
real estate described on Exhibit A, attached hereto, made part hereof, and
subject to lien rights in favor of the City of Fishers in the event of partial
payment with payments remaining due. The remaining balance due (if any) is in
the following amount: $           . This impact fee is dedicated to the
creation of the following infrastructure element in accordance with the Zone
Improvement Plan pertaining to bridge construction and infrastructure.
                                         
Controller, City of Fishers
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.68 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any fee payer who believes itself to be aggrieved by the calculation
of the impact fee, may appeal from such calculation to the Review Board and the
Review Board shall conduct a hearing with regard thereto. At such hearing, the
fee payer shall bear the burden of going forward with the evidence and shall
present evidence addressing either of the following propositions:
      (1)   A fact assumption used in determining the amount of the impact fee
is incorrect; or
      (2)   The amount of the impact fee is greater than the amount allowed
under IC 36-7-4-1320, 36-7-4-1321 and 36-7-4-1322.
   (B)   Upon conclusion of the presentation of evidence, the Review Board
shall make, its reasonable discretion, a determination within not more than 30
days, upon the facts presented and may make such adjustments in the impact fee
as appropriate under the circumstances, if any. An appeal under this section
must be filed not later than 30 days after the issuance of the structural
building permit. The appeal shall be initiated with the filing of a Petition
for Review with the Controller's office, together with a filing fee in the
amount of $100. The filing fee shall be refunded in full:
      (1)   If the Petition for Review is granted and the impact fee is
eliminated, reduced or adjusted by the Review Board, by independent action of
the city, or by a court having jurisdiction, and
      (2)   If the reviewing body determines that the amount of the fee,
reductions, or credits were arbitrary or capricious.
The Petition for Review shall be in a form calculated to inform the Review
Board of the nature of the complaint, the parties to the action, and the relief
requested. In addition, the petition shall describe the new development on
which the impact fee has been assessed, all facts related to the assessment of
the impact fee, and the reasons the petitioner believes that the amount of the
impact fee assessed is erroneous or is greater than the amount allowed by the
fee limitations set forth in the enabling statute.
   (C)   The city shall not deny the issuance of a structural building permit
on the basis that the impact fee has not been paid or condition issuance of the
permit on the payment of the impact fee. If the impact fee totals $1,000 or
less, the city may require the fee payer to pay the impact fee or initiate an
appeal under this section before the structural building permit is issued.
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.69 ESTABLISHMENT OF BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION AND INFRASTRUCTURE FUND.
   There is hereby established the Bridge Construction and Infrastructure Fund
of the city. This Fund shall be a non-reverting fund and shall receive any and
all sums collected pursuant to this subchapter to be utilized in connection
with the purposes set forth herein. Said Fund shall consist initially of one
account based upon the current existence of one Impact Zone. In the event, and
only in the event, that an additional Impact Zone is created hereafter, a
separate account shall be maintained for each separate Impact Zone established
within the city. Interest earned on the Fund or on any account within the Fund
shall be deposited and maintained within the Fund or the separate account. The
Controller shall maintain records of the status of the Fund or any account
which may be established therein and shall make an annual report of said Fund
and accounts which shall be available to the public in general and fee payers,
upon request, in particular. Pursuant to IC 36-7-4-1332(e), the Controller is
designated as the city official responsible for acting upon refund requests. In
order to facilitate refunds when they may be due, the Controller is directed to
identify the purpose of any impact fee paid in order that a refund, if any, may
be paid from the Fund or account into which the fee was originally deposited.
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.70 USE OF IMPACT FEES COLLECTED PURSUANT TO THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   Any and all fees collected pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter may
be utilized for the following purposes only by the city, acting by and through
its Public Works and Safety Board, which, for the purpose of this subchapter is
identified as the "infrastructure agency" contemplated by IC 36-7-4-1317:
   (A)   Providing funds to be utilized by the city for the purpose of paying
the capital costs of new bridge construction and infrastructure that is
necessary to serve the new development within the corporate limits of the city
and that is identified in the Zone Improvement Plan;
   (B)   An amount not to exceed 5% of the annual collections of the fee to be
utilized for expenses incurred by the city for the consulting services used to
establish this subchapter;
   (C)   To pay any refund due pursuant to the terms of this subchapter; or
   (D)   To pay the debt service cost on an obligation issued to provide new
bridge infrastructure described in division (A) above.
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.71 COMPLIANCE WITH HOUSE ENROLLED ACT NO. 1467.
   The City Council specifically acknowledges the existence of a law adopted by
the General Assembly of the State of Indiana which regulates the imposition of
impact fee ordinances by municipal corporations within the State of Indiana. It
is the intent of the city to comply with such legislation, and this subchapter
shall be construed in all respects to be consistent with the Act. The
substantive and procedural requirements of IC 36-7-4-1300 et seq. shall control
in the event of conflicts, which are unintended by the City Council.
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.72 AMENDMENTS AND REVIEW.
   The impact fee provided for herein is based upon data which, in large part,
is subject to inflation and other economic and market forces over which the
city has no control. The City Council shall, therefore, not less than once each
year, cause a review to be made by city staff or consultants as may be
required, to determine the continuing validity of the Impact Fee, the Impact
Zone, and the Zone Improvement Plan. The City Council shall consider and adopt
such amendments as are necessary to cause a substantive compliance with the
rational nexus test to continue, to insure that procedural due process is
maintained or enhanced and to insure that this subchapter meets the
requirements of the IC 36-7-4-1300 series. To the extent required by the facts
and circumstances, this process shall include the steps necessary to update the
Zone Improvement Plan and the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 062110A, passed 6-21-10; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalty. Any person or persons, firm, or corporation whether
as principal, agent, employee, or otherwise, who violates any of the provisions
of this chapter may be prosecuted pursuant to IC 36-7-4-1000 et seq., or as set
forth in division (B) below. Violation of this chapter is a Class C Infraction.
(Ord. 110380, passed 11-3-80)
   (B)   Civil penalty. The city shall impose civil monetary fines or penalties
for violations of this chapter which may be enforced by the designated
enforcement entity in accordance with the procedures outlined in division (5)
below.
      (1)   Definitions. Terms used in this division (B) are defined as
follows:
         BOARD. Board of Zoning Appeals.
         CIVIL VIOLATION. The erection, alteration, enlargement, maintenance or
use of any building, structure or land in violation of any provision of the
zoning ordinance, the subdivision control ordinance, the sign ordinance, the
weed ordinance, and the building codes of the city applicable to such building,
structure or land in the zone in which it is located.
         DEPARTMENT. Department of Development.
         DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR. Coordinator of the Department of Development;
         GRACE PERIOD. Extension of time granted for correction, termination or
cessation of a civil violation of this chapter.
         NOTICE OF VIOLATION. Notice issued by the Department.
         REPEATED CIVIL ZONING VIOLATION. A recurring violation at the same
location or a similar violation at a different location by the same responsible
party.
         RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any person, firm or corporation who (which) uses
property in violation of this chapter or knowingly permits another person, firm
or corporation to do so.
         SIGN ORDINANCE.  An ordinance relating to sign regulations codified in
Cuapter 151, the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO).
         SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE. An ordinance relating to subdivision
control regulations codified in Cuapter 151, the Unified Development Ordinance
(UDO).
Editor's Note:
   The definition for “Subdivision Control Ordinance” is supplied per style. 
         WEED ORDINANCE. An ordinance relating to the cutting of weeds and
other vegetation in the city codified as §§
95.15 through
95.19 (Fishers Ordinance 12-3-73 and as amended by Fishers Ordinance #081689G
and as amended by Fishers Ordinance #062090D).
         ZONING OFFICIAL. The Development Director or his designee.
         ZONING ORDINANCE. Zoning ordinance of the city codified as Chapter
151, the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO).
      (2)   Civil violations; exceptions. Any person, firm or corporation who
(which) uses property in violation of this chapter or knowingly permits another
person, firm or corporation to do so shall upon citation by the designated
enforcement entity be deemed to have committed a civil violation and shall pay
to the city a civil monetary fine in the amount prescribed in division (3)
below.
      (3)   Schedule of monetary fines.
         (a)   The civil monetary fine for each civil violation shall be no
more than $50 except as provided in division (b) below.
         (b)   For a repeated civil violation by the same violator, the
following fines shall apply:
               Second violation         $100
               Third violation         $150
               Fourth violation         $200
               Each Violation in excess of four         $500
         (c)   These civil violation fines to not preclude the civil violator
from responsibility of payment of costs incurred by the city if it is a
necessity for the city to enter onto a property to correct, terminate or cease
a violation in accordance with procedures outlined in this chapter.
      (4)   Citation for civil violations.
         (a)   The Development Director or his duly authorized designees, upon
verification. of a civil violation, may issue a civil citation to any
responsible parties who commits a civil violation. The citation may be served
by personal service or by certified mail or by placement in a conspicuous place
on the property where the civil violation occurs. If personal service of a
civil violation is made by a Development Director or his designees, said
official will:
            1.   In a conspicuous manner, wear on his person identification
from the city; and
            2.   In a conspicuous manner, wear on his person identification of
his employment with the Department.
   The citation shall serve as notice to the responsible parties that said
party has committed a civil violation.
         (b)   No citation shall be issued unless the violator has been issued
a notice of violation with a minimum of one and a maximum of ten days before
the issuance of the citation in order to allow the violator the opportunity to
correct the violation and to come into compliance with the prescribed section
of the pertinent ordinance.
         (c)   The notice of violation shall include:
            1.   The date of issuance;
            2.   The name and address of the person charged;
            3.   The section number of the pertinent ordinance which has been
violated;
            4.   The nature of the civil violation;
            5.   The place and time at which the civil violation occurred.
            6.   The range of fines which could be assessed upon continued
noncompliance activity;
            7.   The specific time allowed in which to bring the civil
violation into compliance;
            8.   The name, business address and telephone number of the
official issuing the notice of violation; and
            9.   The date and time of the notice and the number of days given
on the notice.
         (d)   The citation shall be on a form adopted by the department and
shall include:
            1.   The date of issuance;
            2.   The name and address of the person charged;
            3.   The section number of the pertinent ordinance which has been
violated;
            4.   The nature of the civil violation;
            5.   The place and time at which the civil violation occurred;
            6.   The schedule of monetary fines to be assessed;
            7.   The name, business address and telephone number of the
official issuing the citation; and
            8.   The date and title of notice given and the number of days
given on notice.
         (e)   The date, time and location of the court in which the civil
violation shall be adjudicated shall be determined by the court which will send
notification thereof to the violator and the Development Director or his
designee.
      (5)   Trial for civil violation.
         (a)   Upon the issuance of a citation, the Zoning Official shall
forward a copy of the citation to the designated enforcement entity and the
Hamilton County Court, Noblesville, Indiana shall schedule the case for trial.
            1.   The Corporation Counsel or his or her designee or the
Department is responsible for the enforcement of chapter.
            2.   All procedures will be in compliance with the Indiana Rules
for Civil Procedure and will adopt court cost recovery for infractions
according to the State of Indiana.
         (b)   In proceedings before the court for a civil violation:
            1.   By a preponderance of the evidence presented at the trial, the
designated enforcement entity has the burden of proving the civil zoning
violation and that the violator committed the infraction;
            2.   The violator may question all witnesses who appear for the
designated enforcement entity and may also produce evidence or witnesses on the
violator's behalf.
         (c)   A person found guilty of a civil violation is liable for the
fine, court costs and fees. No costs may be assessed against the designated
enforcement entity in any such action.
         (d)   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in this section does not
preclude the designated enforcement entity from alternative relief from the
court in the same action or from seeking injunctive relief which is available
under the law of the State of Indiana or any other remedy in a separate action
for the enforcement of the pertinent ordinance.
         (e)   When a violator has been found guilty of a civil violation, the
court may impose additional civil penalties and grant appropriate relief to
abate or halt the violation, and the court may direct that payment of the civil
monetary fine or additional civil penalties be suspended or deferred under
conditions established by the court. If a violator fails to pay the civil
penalty or violates the terms of any other order imposed by the court, the
failure is contempt; and
         (f)   A change of venue from the Hamilton County Court shall not be
granted in such a case.
(Ord. 062090D, passed 8-22-90; Am. Ord. 120590A, passed 12-5-90; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 157: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
157.01   Title
   
157.02   Purpose
   
157.03   Applicability
   
157.04   Zoning considerations
   
157.05   Validity
   
157.06   Interpretation
   
157.07   Definitions
   
157.08   Environmental requirements
   
157.09   Maintenance of exterior property areas
   
157.10   Responsibilities of occupants
   
157.11   Enforcement and correction
   
157.12   Coordination of enforcement
   
157.13   Inspections
   
157.14   Violations
   
157.15   Remediation
   
157.16   Prosecution of gross violation; penalty
   
157.17   Right of appeal
§ 157.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as "Fishers Exterior Building Property
Maintenance Code" for all residential and non-residential structures and
properties (also known as Class 1 and Class 2 structures) and is herein
referred to as the Property Maintenance Code. If there is any conflict between
the Property Maintenance Code and the Rules of the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission, the Rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission shall apply. If the Rules are silent as to what is required, the
Property Maintenance Code shall control.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Property Maintenance Code is to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare in all existing structures by establishing minimum
standards for basic equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space
heating, sanitation, protection from the elements, safety from fire, safe and
sanitary maintenance; setting the responsibilities of owners, operators, and
occupants of all structures; and providing administration, enforcement, and
penalties.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Any alterations to buildings, or changes of use therein, which may be
caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this chapter shall be done
in accordance with applicable Rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission. No owner, occupant, or tenant of a building shall be required to
alter, remediate, repair, or rehabilitate a building to conform with the
following provisions of this chapter if at the time the building was
constructed, or later altered as permitted and inspected by the city, said
building met all applicable Rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission in effect at the time of construction or approved alteration, and
maintained to that standard, unless alteration, remediation, or repair is
necessary to:
      (1)   Maintain safety, soundness, and support actual designed loads of
the building as required by the Rules of the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission; or
      (2)   Maintain fire safety for exiting, smoke detectors, wiring, and HVAC
as required by the Rules of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
   (B)   This chapter establishes minimum requirements for the initial and
continued occupancy or use of all buildings and structures and does not replace
or modify requirements otherwise established for the construction, repair,
alteration or use of buildings, equipment or facilities except as provided in
this section. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to abolish or impair
existing remedies of the city or its officers or agencies relating to the
removal or demolition of any buildings that are deemed dangerous, unsafe, or
unsanitary.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.04 ZONING CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall permit the conversion or establishment
of any dwelling in any zone except where permitted by zoning. In addition, no
nonconforming use or structure may be altered unless in conformance with
applicable zoning provisions.
   (B)   Except as provided in this section, in any case where a provision of
this chapter is found to be in conflict with a provision of any, building,
fire, safety or health ordinance or code of the city existing on the effective
date of this chapter which establishes a lower standard for the promotion and
protection of the safety and health of the people, the provisions of this
chapter shall prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are hereby declared
to be replaced to the extent that they may be found to be in conflict with this
chapter.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.05 VALIDITY.
   (A)   Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase of this chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever,
such decision shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter which
shall continue in full force and effect.
   B.   Saving clause. This chapter shall not affect the violations of any
other ordinance, code or regulation of the city existing prior to the effective
date hereof, and any such violation shall be governed and shall continue to be
punishable to the fall extent of the law under the provisions of those
ordinances, codes or regulations in effect at the time the violation was
committed.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.06 INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall be
interpreted as follows:
   (A)   The word PERSON includes an individual, firm, association,
organization, partnership, trust, company, corporation, or any other legal
entity.
   (B)   The masculine includes the feminine.
   (C)   The present tense includes the past and future tense; the singular
number includes the plural.
   (D)   The word SHALL is a mandatory requirement; the word MAY is a
permissive requirement; and the word SHOULD is a preferred requirement.
   (E)   The words USED or OCCUPIED include the words "intended, arranged, or
designed to be used or occupied."
   (F)   The words RESIDENTIAL and NON-RESIDENTIAL refer to the terms Class 1
and Class 2 structures used in the Rules of the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission.
   (G)   Whenever the words MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING, RESIDENCE BUILDING, DWELLING
UNIT or PREMISES are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as though
they were followed by the words "or any part thereof."
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED STRUCTURE.  Deserted or vacant structure where any of the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   Is open to casual entry or trespass;
      (2)   Is damaged by fire, flood, weather, or vandalism to an extent which
prohibits safe human occupancy;
      (3)   Is the site of loitering or vagrancy; or
      (4)   Has utilities disconnected or not is use.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. Structure or building that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental and subordinate to the use of the principal structure. Accessory
structures should constitute a minimal investment, may not be used for human
habitation, and be designed to have minimal impact on adjoining properties.
Examples of accessory structures are detached garages, carports, storage,
sheds, pole barns, hay sheds, and lean-tos.
   ACCESSORY USE. A secondary use on a property that is incidental and
subordinate to a primary use located on the same property and does not alter or
change the character of the premises.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Building Commissioner under the provisions of this
chapter, or approved by another authority designated by law to give approval in
the matter in question.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed, built, and used for the shelter,
protection, or enclosure of persons or property that is permanently affixed to
land. This term shall include manufactured and modular homes but shall not
include recreational vehicles. A building is also a structure.
   BUILDING CODE. The Rules adopted by the Fire Prevention and Building Safety
Commission at 675 IAC 13, as amended, for the regulation of construction,
alteration, and addition of Class 1 buildings and structures.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The official designated by the Mayor to enforce
building, zoning, or similar laws and this chapter, or his duly appointed
representative.
   CODE OF RECORD. The state adopted codes, standards, and rules regulating
Class I and Class II structures at their time of construction.
   DETERIORATION. To weaken, disintegrate, corrode, rust or decay and lose
effectiveness.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitary purposes. This term shall encompass
manufactured and modular homes but shall not include recreational vehicles.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS. The open space on the premises and on adjoining
property under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
   EXTERMINATION.  The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
vermin by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making
inaccessible materials that may serve as their food; by poison spraying,
fumigating, trapping; or by any other approved vermin elimination methods.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes including every waste, accumulation of animal,
fruit or vegetable matter used or intended for food or used in the preparation,
use, cooking, sale, or storage of meat, fish, fowl, vegetable, or fruits.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to a structure or premises,
of insects, rats, vermin, or other pests.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide, or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling units, building, premises, or structure by a
person who is not the legal owner of record thereof, pursuant to a written or
unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to a recorded or unrecorded
agreement of contract for the sale of land.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building or having
possession of a space within a building.
   OPEN CRACKS. A hole which permits entry of insects, rodents, vermin, and
other pests.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which are let or offered for occupancy or use.
   OWNER.  Any person, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation
or any other legal entity having a legal title to or sufficient proprietary
interest in the land under these regulations.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, association, company, corporation,
organization, partnership, trust, legal representative, trustee, receiver, or
any other group acting as a unit.
   PLUMBING FIXTURES.  A receptacle or device that is permanently or
temporarily connected to the water distribution system of the premises and
demands a supply of water therefrom; or discharges waste water, liquid borne
waste materials, or sewage directly or indirectly to the drainage system of the
premises; or that requires both a water supply connection and a discharge to
the drainage system on the premises.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including
any structures therein.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
   RESIDENTIAL CODE. The Rules adopted by the Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission at 675 IAC 14, as amended, for the regulation of
construction, alteration, and addition of Class 2 buildings and structures.
   RUBBISH. Useless waste or rejected matter like ashes, cans, metal-ware,
broken glass, crockery, foul and filthy substances, dirt, sweepings, boxes,
wood, grass, weeds, and waste materials of any kind.
   STRUCTURE.  An assembly of materials forming a construction for occupancy or
use, including among others, buildings, garages, tents, reviewing stands,
platforms, stagings, observation towers, radio towers, water tanks, trestles,
open sheds, coal bins, shelters, fences and display signs.
   SUPPLIED. Installed, furnished or provided by the owner or operator.
   TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner on record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
   TOILET ROOM. A room containing water closet, urinal, and/or lavatory but not
a bathtub or shower.
   VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
   VENTILATION, MECHANICAL. The process of supplying and removing air by power-
driven devices.
   VENTILATION, NATURAL. The process of supplying and removing air by opening
to outer air through windows, sky lights, door, louvers or stacks without power
driven devices.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14; Am. Ord. 031615, passed 3-16-15)
§ 157.08 ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum conditions of
property and buildings. Every building or structure, except as exempted by
other parts of this chapter and the premises on which it stands shall comply
with the conditions herein prescribed. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant
or let to another for occupancy any structure or premises that does not comply
with the following requirements. The Building Commissioner may conduct periodic
inspections to be made of all premises to secure compliance with these
requirements. It shall be the responsibility of the Building Commissioner to
determine whether correction is needed. The Building Commissioner shall also
look at the extent of the corrections needed and set a time period for
correction unless a time is specifically stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.09 MAINTENANCE OF EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior property areas shall be maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Grading and drainage. All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any building or
structure located thereon.
   (C)   Noxious weeds. All exterior property areas shall be kept free from
species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental to the public
health.
   (D)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, shall be maintained as prescribed in the code of record.
   (E)   Foundation walls. The foundation elements shall adequately support the
building at all points. All foundation walls shall be maintained and free from
open cracks, breaks, tears and holes and shall be kept in such condition as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
   (F)   Exterior walls. Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks,
loose or rotting boards or timbers, and any other conditions that admit rain or
dampness to the interior portions of the walls or to the occupied spaces of the
building. All exterior walls shall have some type of water resistant exterior
finish such as siding or masonry as prescribed in the code of record. Exterior
weather wrap and treated plywood shall not be sufficient. All exterior walls
shall be kept in such condition as to exclude rodent or insect infestation. All
exterior surfaces, including but not limited to, doors, door and window frames,
cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks and fences shall be maintained as
prescribed in the code of record. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking, and chipped paint
shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted. All siding and masonry joints as
well as those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows,
doors, and skylights shall be maintained weather resistant and water tight. All
metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion shall be coated to inhibit such
rust and corrosion and all surfaces with rust or corrosion shall be stabilized
and coated to inhibit future rust and corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be
removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces designed for stabilization by
oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
   (G)   Roofs and overhanging extensions. The roof and flashing shall be kept
maintained in a sound and tight manner as not to admit rain or water as
prescribed in the code of record. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration within the walls or interior portions of the
structure. All overhanging extensions including but not limited to canopies,
marquees, signs, metal awnings, and porch roofs shall be maintained as
prescribed in the code of record. Temporary tarps placed upon a roof shall be
limited to 60 days.
   (H)   Stairs, porches, and railings. All exterior stairways, decks, porches
and balconies and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be maintained as
prescribed in the code of record.
   (I)   Structural safety. Every outside stair, porch, and appurtenance to
every structure shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of
supporting the loads prescribed in the code of record.
   (J)   Handrails and guardrails. Shall be maintained to support loads
prescribed in the code of record.
   (K)   Windows, doors, and hatchways. All glazing and windows shall be
maintained free from cracks and holes. All windows, other than fixed windows,
shall be easily opened from the inside of the structure.
   (L)   Windows to be glazed. Every window sash shall be fully supplied with
glass window panes or an approved substitute which are without open cracks or
holes.
   (M)   Windows to be tight.  Every window sash shall be in good condition and
fit reasonably tight within its window frame.
   (N)   Windows to open. Every window other than a fixed window, shall be
capable of being openable as prescribed in the code of record.
   (O)   Door hardware. Every exterior door, door hinge, and door latch shall
be maintained in working condition.
   (P)   Doors to fit frame. Every exterior door, when closed, shall fit
reasonably well within its frame.
   (Q)   Window and door frames to fit well. Every window, door, and frame
shall be maintained in such relation to the adjacent wall construction so as to
exclude precipitation as completely as possible as prescribed in the code of
record.
   (R)   Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be so constructed
and maintained to prevent the entrance of rodents, insect infestation, rain and
surface drainage water into the dwelling or structure.
   (S)   Exit doors. Every door available as an exit shall be capable of being
easily opened from the inside as prescribed in the code of record.
   (T)   Vacant properties.  All vacant properties shall have windows and doors
secured from unauthorized entry. If windows, doors, and other openings are not
capable of being locked, the owner shall be responsible for boarding or
otherwise securing the opening.
   (U)   Gutters. Every gutter shall be maintained and kept in a functional,
sound, and safe state of maintenance and repair to effectively carry off water
without blockage or leakage.
   (V)   Structural members. All structural members of the exterior shall be
maintained in a structurally sound manner and be capable of supporting all
imposed loads. Any deficiencies in structural members identified by the
Building Commissioner shall be evaluated by a design professional registered in
the State of Indiana as directed by the Building Commissioner at the expense of
the property owner.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14; Am. Ord. 031615, passed 3-16-15)
§ 157.10 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a building or part thereof shall keep
that part of the building or premises thereof which he occupies, controls or
uses in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a building or part thereof
shall dispose of rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner as required by city
ordinances.
   (C)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a building or part thereof
shall dispose of garbage in a clean and sanitary manner as required by
applicable laws or Fishers ordinances.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14; Am. Ord. 031615, passed 3-16-15)
§ 157.11 ENFORCEMENT AND CORRECTION.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the Building Commissioner to enforce
the provisions of this chapter to determine, in the Commissioner's sound
discretion, gross violations, with or without internal inspections and to issue
a notice of gross violation when in such judgment the Commissioner determines
and reasonably believes a gross violation exists.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, the term GROSS VIOLATION shall mean:
      (1)   A person's failure to satisfy multiple responsibilities addressed
in this chapter;
      (2)   A person's violation of multiple subsections of §
157.09;
      (3)   A person's failure to respond to notice that a building or premises
does not comply with this chapter; or
      (4)   A person's ongoing or continuing gross violations, regardless of
whether such gross violations are consecutive.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.12 COORDINATION OF ENFORCEMENT.
   Inspection of premises and the issuing of orders in connection therewith
under the provisions of this chapter shall be the exclusive responsibility of
the Building Commissioner. Wherever, in the opinion of the Building
Commissioner it is necessary and desirable to inspect any condition by any
other department, the Commissioner shall coordinate inspections so the occupant
and/or owner is not unreasonably subjected to visits by numerous inspectors nor
to multiple or conflicting orders. No order for correction of any gross
violation under this chapter shall be issued without the approval of the
Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.13 INSPECTIONS.
   The Building Commissioner shall make or cause to be made inspections to
determine the conditions of all structures and premises to safeguard the public
health, safety, and welfare under the provisions of this chapter. If the
Building Commissioner develops probable cause that the Property Maintenance
Code has been violated, the Building Commissioner may obtain an administrative
search warrant or other authorization from a court of law to enter the premises
and conduct the necessary and authorized search. Such search warrant shall be
requested from a court upon the submission of any photographs obtained from
public property or neighboring property, an affidavit supporting a reason to
believe a gross violation exists of this chapter or the Building Code or
Residential Code, and/or any other supporting evidence justifying the issuance
of the search warrant in compliance with Fourth Amendment requirements. If an
owner, tenant, or other person in control of the property voluntarily allows
entry in to the property, no such warrant shall be necessary. The inspection
shall be limited to areas and purposes authorized by the person in control of
the premises or the administrative search warrant. This chapter shall not be
construed to require or authorize inspections where there is no cause to
believe a gross violation exists. Abandoned structures and lots shall be
subject to unrestricted, complete and thorough code inspections, including
legal right of entry into those structures found unsecured.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.14 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Service of notice; initial violation.  Whenever the Building
Commissioner determines that there has been or is a gross violation, or that
there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a gross violation
of any provision of this chapter, the Commissioner shall give notice of such
gross violation or alleged gross violation. Notice of gross violation shall be
served upon the owner of record by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
personal service upon the landowner and/or tenant if a resident of the city, or
by posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the structure
affected by the notice. Such notice shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Specify the gross violation which exists and the remedial action
request;
      (4)   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires.
   (B)   Service of notice; continuing violation. If an initial notice of gross
violation was provided by certified mail or first class mail, a notice of
continuing violation may be posted at the premises or structure. A notice of
continuing violation serves as notice that each subsequent gross violation
during the same year for which an initial notice of the gross violation was
issued subjects a person to prosecution of the gross violation as set forth in
§
157.16.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.15 REMEDIATION.
   (A)   After an order is issued, the person or occupant subject to the order
may work with the Building Commissioner to complete a remediation plan. If such
a remediation plan is developed and the person or occupant complies with such
plan, the order shall become null and void.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, REMEDIATION PLAN shall mean a plan to
bring the building and/or premises into compliance with this chapter, the
Building Code and the Residential Code that is accepted in writing by the city
and a person subject to a penalty for gross violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.16 PROSECUTION OF GROSS VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   (A)   If the order concerns a gross violation as defined in §
157.11 above and a remediation plan:
      (1)   Is not entered into; or
      (2)   A person does not comply with a remediation plan, the Building
Commissioner may request the City Attorney to institute an ordinance violation
action against the person responsible for the gross violation in the City
Court.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation, who shall commit a gross violation
of any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, pay the following
applicable fine to the city:
      (1)   First offense   Up to $50;
      (2)   Multiple gross violations cited on first offense   Up to $100;
      (3)   Second offense within one year   Up to $100; and
      (4)   Third offense and each additional offense within one year   Up to
$250.
   (C)   Unpaid gross violations shall additionally be referred to the City
Court. Every day that a gross violation continues after due notice has been
served, in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof, shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
§ 157.17 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Time for appeal. Any owner or person who is aggrieved with the ruling
or decision of the Building Commissioner in any matter relative to the
interpretation or enforcement of the provisions of this chapter may appeal the
decision or interpretation. This appeal must be filed with Department of
Community Development in writing, within ten days of the receipt of an order.
   (B)   Time for hearing.  Upon receipt of such appeal the Director shall fix
a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, for the hearing of the appeal before
the Board of Public Works and Safety and give due notice thereof to the parties
subject to the order.
   (C)   Determination. The Board of Public Works and Safety may confirm or
modify the order, requirement, decision or determination.
   (D)   The owner or person may appeal the Board's determination in the City
Court by filing an appeal within 20 days of the Board's decision.
   (E)   The decision of City Court may be appealed to a Hamilton County
Circuit or Superior Court.
(Ord. 120114B, passed 12-1-14)
CHAPTER 158: SIGN ORDINANCE
Section
   
158.01   Unified Development Ordinance
§ 158.01 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE.
   Provisions regarding sign regulations are found in the Unified Development
Ordinance (UDO) adopted by §
151.01 which is incorporated as if fully stated herein and those provisions
shall control. An electronic copy of the complete, updated UDO is available for
review on the City of Fishers website at
www.fishers.in.us\egov\docs\1163779146868.htm.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 159: UNSAFE BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND PREMISES
Section
   
159.01   General definitions
   
159.02   Appointment of the enforcement authority
   
159.03   Unsafe building, structure and premises
   
159.04   Unsafe buildings, structures and premises prohibited
   
159.05   Actions of the enforcement authority
   
159.06   Posting notice
   
159.07   Orders
   
159.08   Hearings
   
159.09   Interference with orders
   
159.10   Penalties
   
159.11   Performance of order
   
159.12   Unpaid costs
   
159.13   Appeals
   
159.14   Emergency action
   
159.15   Other police powers as prescribed by Indiana statute
§ 159.01 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning
   DEPARTMENT.  The City of Fishers Department of Permitting and Inspection.
   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY. The Fishers Building Commissioner or his or her
designee.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. Office of the City Court Judge.
   SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY INTEREST. Any right in real property that may be
affected in a substantial way by actions authorized by this chapter, including
a fee interest, a life estate interest, a future interest, a mortgage interest,
or an equitable interest of a contract purchaser.
(Ord. 051591, passed 5-15-91; Am. Ord. 062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord.
022012, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 159.02 APPOINTMENT OF THE ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   Consistent with IC 36-7-9-3, the Council hereby appoints the Fishers
Building Commissioner as the enforcement authority responsible for
administering the unsafe structures ordinance.
(Ord. 062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 159.03 UNSAFE BUILDING, STRUCTURE AND PREMISES.
   (A)   Unsafe buildings and structures. For purposes of this chapter, an
unsafe building or structure shall be any part of a building or structure, that
is:
      (1)   In an impaired structural condition that makes it unsafe to a
person or property;
      (2)   A fire hazard;
      (3)   A hazard to the public health;
      (4)   A public nuisance;
      (5)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or ordinance concerning building condition or maintenance; or
      (6)   Vacant and not maintained in a manner that would allow human
habitation, occupancy, or use under statutes or ordinances.
   (B)   Unsafe premises. For purposes of this chapter, unsafe premises shall
be:
      (1)   An unsafe building; and
      (2)   The tract of real property on which the unsafe building is located;
or
      (3)   A tract of real property that does not contain a building or
structure, not including land used for production agriculture, if the tract of
real property is:
         (a)   A fire hazard;
         (b)   A hazard to public health;
         (c)   A public nuisance; or
         (d)   Dangerous to a person or property because of a violation of a
statute or an ordinance.
(Ord. 062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12)
§ 159.04 UNSAFE BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or organization to
own, occupy or maintain within the municipal limits of the city any unsafe
building, unsafe structure or unsafe premises.
(Ord. 3-17-80, passed 5-5-80; Am. Ord. 051591, passed 5-15-91; Ord. 062011A,
passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-
17-14) Penalty, see §
159.10
§ 159.05 ACTIONS OF THE ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   Whenever the enforcement authority finds within the city’s municipal limits
any unsafe building, unsafe structure or unsafe premises, the enforcement
authority may issue an order requiring:
   (A)   Vacating of an unsafe building;
   (B)   Sealing an unsafe building against intrusion;
   (C)   Extermination of vermin in and about the unsafe premises;
   (D)   Removal of trash, debris, fire hazardous material, or a public health
hazard in and about the unsafe premises;
   (E)   Repair or rehabilitation of an unsafe building or premises to bring it
into compliance with Fishers’ standards for human habitation, occupancy or use;
   (F)   Demolition and removal of part of an unsafe building or structure; or
   (G)   Demolition and removal of an unsafe building or structure, if the
general condition of building or structure warrants removal.
(Ord. 3-17-80, passed 5-5-80; Am. Ord. 051591, passed 5-15-91; Am. Ord.
062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 159.06 POSTING NOTICE.
   If a building or structure, other than a street, is to be sealed, the
enforcement authority shall, in all instances, post upon such building or
structure, or appurtenances thereof, or at or near its principle entrance, a
sign in large letters stating, in substance:
      “THIS BUILDING OR STRUCTURE IS UNSAFE AND MUST NOT BE USED OR ENTERED BY
ANYONE WITHOUT THE WRITTEN PERMISSION OF THE FISHERS BUILDING COMMISSIONER.”
(Ord. 3-17-80, passed 5-5-80; Am. Ord. 051591, passed 5-15-91; Am. Ord.
062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12)
§ 159.07 ORDERS.
   The enforcement authority or his or her designee is hereby empowered to
issue all orders in writing to owners or occupants of unsafe buildings,
structures or premises directing such action as may be necessary to bring said
building, structure or premises within compliance of this chapter and state
law; provided, however, that prior to the issuance of any such orders, the
enforcement authority or his or her designee shall prepare a written report to
be distributed to the City Judge, which report shall state the location of such
unsafe building, structure or premise, the owner and/or occupants thereof, the
general nature of repairs, alterations or other reconstruction that may be
necessary to bring said building, structure or premise within compliance of
this chapter and the action that will be taken by the enforcement authority or
his or her designee. All papers and reports as required herein shall constitute
the record in each matter and must be preserved in a file kept by the City
Judge. Notice of such order must be given as required by IC § 36-7-9-25, as
amended, and the order must contain all information required by IC § 36-7-9-5
(b), as amended.
(Ord. 3-17-80, passed 5-5-80; Am. Ord. 051591, passed 5-15-91; Am. Ord.
062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 159.08 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Orders issued requiring the following action become final ten days
after notice is given unless a person holding a fee interest, life estate
interest, mortgage interest, or equitable interest of a contract purchaser in
the unsafe premises (“interested party”) requests in writing that a hearing be
held:
      (1)   Sealing an unsafe building against intrusion;
      (2)   Extermination of vermin in and about any unsafe premises;
      (3)   Removal of trash, debris, fire hazardous material, or a public
health hazard in and about the unsafe premises; or
      (4)   Repair or rehabilitation of an unsafe building or premises to bring
it into compliance with Fishers’ standards for human habitation, occupancy, or
use.
   (B)   An interested party must submit the written request for a hearing to
the City Judge within ten days after notice is given. The written request shall
be sent to the City of Fishers, Attn: Fishers City Judge, 1 Municipal Drive,
Fishers Indiana 46038. The City Judge shall hold a hearing within ten days of
receiving the written request.
   (C)   Further, the City Judge shall hold a hearing not sooner than ten days
after notice is given if an order is issued requiring any of the following
actions:
      (1)   Vacating of an unsafe building;
      (2)   Demolition and removal of part of an unsafe building or structure;
or
      (3)   Demolition and removal of an unsafe building or structure, if the
general condition of building or structure warrants removal.
   (D)   The person to whom an order was issued, any person having a
substantial property interest in the unsafe building structure or premises or
any other interested party may appear in person or by counsel at a hearing and
present evidence, cross-examine opposing witnesses, and present arguments. At
the conclusion of any hearing, the City Judge shall make findings and take
action to:
      (1)   Affirm the order;
      (2)   Rescind the order; or
      (3)   Modify the order.
Unless the person to whom the order was issued, or counsel for that person, is
present at the hearing, the City Judge may not modify the order in a manner
that makes it more stringent.
(Ord. 3-17-80, passed 5-5-80; Am. Ord. 051591, passed 5-15-91; Am. Ord.
062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 159.09 INTERFERENCE WITH ORDERS.
   A person who:
   (A)   Remains in, uses, or enters a building in violation of an order;
   (B)   Knowingly interferes with or delays the carrying out of an order;
   (C)   Knowingly obstructs, damages, or interferes with persons engaged or
property used in performing any work or duty under this chapter; or
   (D)   Fails to properly provide notice to a person or entity to whom the
property under an order is being transferred prior to the ordered work being
completed;
commits a Class C infraction. Each day that the violation continues constitutes
a separate offense.
(Ord. 3-17-80, passed 5-5-80; Am. Ord. 051591, passed 5-15-91; Am. Ord.
062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12)
§ 159.10 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Willful noncompliance. If the City Judge determines there has been a
willful failure to comply with an order, the Judge may impose a civil penalty
in an amount not to exceed $5,000. In the Judge’s exercise of continuing
jurisdiction, the Judge may, in addition to reducing or striking the civil
penalty, impose one or more additional civil penalties in an amount not to
exceed $5,000 per civil penalty if the Judge finds that:
      (1)   Significant work on the premises to comply with the affirmed order
has not been accomplished; and
      (2)   The premises have a negative effect on property values or the
quality of life of the surrounding area or the premises require the provision
of services by local government in excess of the services required by ordinary
properties.
If a civil penalty is unpaid for more than 15 days after payment of the civil
penalty is due, the civil penalty may be collected from any person against whom
the City Judge assessed the civil penalty or fine. A civil penalty or fine may
be collected in the same manner as costs pursuant to IC 36-7-9-13 or 36-7-9-
13.5, as amended.
   (B)   Violation of §
159.09. Any person, upon conviction of such misdemeanor as described in §
159.09 shall be fined in any sum not exceeding $500, and each day that any such
violation shall continue to exist, or each distinct repetition of any such
violation, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3-17-80, passed 5-5-80; Am. Ord. 051591, passed 5-15-91; Am. Ord.
062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 159.11 PERFORMANCE OF ORDER.
   If the person to whom an order is issued fails to comply with the order, the
enforcement authority may cause the ordered work to be performed and all
persons or entities who held a fee interest, life estate interest, or equitable
interest of a contract purchaser in the unsafe premises will be held joint and
severally liable for the cost of performing the ordered work and all related
administrative and legal costs, including attorneys’ fees.
(Ord. 062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12)
§ 159.12 UNPAID COSTS.
   If any person is indebted to the city as a result of an order issued
pursuant to this unsafe structures chapter, the city may pursue collection of
amounts owed in the Hamilton Circuit Court or by submitting the amount owed to
the Hamilton County Auditor to be included on the tax duplicate for the
affected property as a special assessment pursuant to IC 36-7-9-13 and 36-7-9-
13.5.
(Ord. 062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 159.13 APPEALS.
   The person to whom an order was issued or any person with a substantial
property interest may seek review of the City Judge’s decision regarding the
order or any civil penalty in any Hamilton County Circuit or Superior Court. A
person requesting judicial review, must file a verified complaint including the
findings of fact and the action taken by the City Judge. The complaint must be
filed within ten days after the date when the action was taken.
(Ord. 3-17-80, passed 5-5-80; Am. Ord. 051591, passed 5-15-91; Am. Ord.
062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord. 091514A,
passed 11-17-14)
§ 159.14 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the enforcement authority finds it necessary to take emergency action
concerning an unsafe premises in order to protect life, safety, or property, it
may:
   (A)   Take action to remove or abate any immediate danger, or
   (B)   Require persons to vacate and not use the nearby property until the
danger has passed.
The enforcement authority may recover the costs incurred by the enforcement
authority in taking emergency action, by filing a civil action in a Hamilton
County Circuit or Superior Court.
(Ord. 062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12)
§ 159.15 OTHER POLICE POWERS AS PRESCRIBED BY INDIANA STATUTE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or otherwise diminish
any other power provided to the city pursuant to IC 36-7-9 et seq., and Fishers
specifically states that this chapter adopts by reference all sections of IC
36-7-9 et seq. not specifically stated herein.
(Ord. 062011A, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 022012, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 160: ECONOMIC REVITALIZATION AREAS
Section
   
160.01   Application for designation
   
160.02   Forms; information required
   
160.03   (Reserved)
   
160.04   Investigation of applicant and proposed improvements
   
160.05   Issues to be considered for designation
   
160.06   Filing resolution; public hearing
   
160.07   Starting time; expiration; reapplication
   
160.08   Tax abatement restriction
§ 160.01 APPLICATION FOR DESIGNATION.
   The Director of Community Development or his or her designee shall receive
all applications from persons, firms, organizations, or corporations requesting
that industrial real estate be designated as an Economic Revitalization Area.
(Ord. 120485, passed 1-22-86; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 160.02 FORMS; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   The city shall prepare printed forms and require all applicants applying for
designation of real estate as an Economic Revitalization Area to use such forms
in making an application. The application shall include, but not be limited to,
requesting the following information:
   (A)   A description of the real estate;
   (B)   The proposed industrial use of the real estate;
   (C)   The proposed type and cost of redevelopment, rehabilitation, and/or
new manufacturing equipment;
   (D)   The description of the proposed operation and the number of jobs to be
created;
   (E)   The projected date of completion for the proposed improvements; and
   (F)   The projected increase in use of public utilities and city services
resulting from the improvements.
(Ord. 120485, passed 1-22-86; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 160.03 (RESERVED).
§ 160.04 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT AND PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS.
   Pursuant to IC 6-1.1-12.1-2.5, the City Council shall investigate the
applicant and the proposed improvements to determine the best interests of the
city, and shall hold public hearings thereon if necessary or advisable.
Consistent with IC 6-1.1-12.1 et seq., the city may thereafter adopt a
declaratory resolution including the area to be designated as an Economic
Revitalization Area.
(Ord. 120485, passed 1-22-86; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 160.05 ISSUES TO BE CONSIDERED FOR DESIGNATION.
   In considering the advisability of designating industrial real estate as an
Economic Revitalization Area, under the provisions of IC 6-1.1-12.1-3, the
Council shall consider the following issues:
   (A)   Whether the estimate of the value of the redevelopment or
rehabilitation is reasonable for projects of that nature;
   (B)   Whether the estimate of the number of individuals who will be employed
or whose employment will be retained can be reasonably expected to result from
the proposed described redevelopment or rehabilitation;
   (C)   Whether the estimate of the annual salaries of those individuals who
will be employed or whose employment will be retained can be reasonably
expected to result from the proposed described redevelopment or rehabilitation;
   (D)   Whether any other benefits about which information was requested are
benefits that can be reasonably expected to result from the proposed described
redevelopment or rehabilitation ; and
   (E)   Whether the totality of benefits is sufficient to justify the
destruction.
(Ord. 120485, passed 1-22-86; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 160.06 FILING RESOLUTION; PUBLIC HEARING.
   Upon the adoption of a declaratory resolution designating an area as an
Economic Revitalization Area by the Council, the Director of Community
Development or his or her designee shall cause the resolution to be filed with
the Hamilton County Assessor. Thereafter, a public hearing will be conducted to
hear any remonstrances and/or objections from interested persons, and the
Director shall publish notice of the adoption and the substance of the
declaratory resolution and the date and time for a public hearing in accordance
with IC 5-3-1. At the public hearing, the Council will receive and hear any
remonstrances and objections from interested persons regarding the declaratory
resolution designating an area to be an Economic Revitalization Area, and the
Council will then determine whether the qualifications for an Economic
Revitalization Area have been met and may confirm, modify and confirm, or
rescind their previous resolution.
(Ord. 120485, passed 1-22-86; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 160.07 STARTING TIME; EXPIRATION; REAPPLICATION.
   If the improvements proposed in the application for Economic Revitalization
Area status are not started within three years from the date of designation,
then the Economic Revitalization Area designation for the real estate shall
expire. However, the applicant may reapply, and such reapplication shall be
made within 90 days of the date of the expiration of the three-year period.
(Ord. 120485, passed 1-22-86; Am. Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 160.08 TAX ABATEMENT RESTRICTION.
   This chapter shall not give any person, firm, organization, or corporation
any rights to tax abatement for a longer period of time, or greater amount,
than as provided by the laws of the state.
(Ord. 120485, passed 1-22-86)
CHAPTER 161: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
161.01   Unified Development Ordinance
§ 161.01 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE.
   Provisions regarding parking regulations are found in the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) adopted by §
151.01 which is incorporated as if fully stated herein and those provisions
shall control. An electronic copy of the complete, updated UDO is available for
review on the City of Fishers website at
www.fishers.in.us\egov\docs\1163779146868.htm.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 162: LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS
Sections
   
162.01   Unified Development Ordinance
   
162.02   Optional natural area protection
§ 162.01 UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE.
   Provisions regarding landscape regulations, with the exception of the
provisions of §
162.02 regarding optional natural area protection, are found in the Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) adopted by §
151.01 which is incorporated as if fully stated herein and those provisions
shall control. An electronic copy of the complete, updated UDO is available for
review on the City of Fishers website at
www.fishers.in.us\egov\docs\1163779146868.htm.
(Ord. 091514A, passed 11-17-14)
§ 162.02 OPTIONAL NATURAL AREA PROTECTION.
   (A)   Applicability. This section is presented as an option for the
development community in all zoning districts applying for an Improvement
Location Permit or approval of a Development Plan or Primary Plat.
   (B)   Intent.
      (1)   To prevent the unnecessary cutting, removal or killing of trees in
wooded areas.
      (2)   To prevent the unnecessary cutting, removal or killing of specimen
trees.
      (3)   Promote and maintain a high level of community aesthetics through
the conservation and planting of trees.
      (4)   Other areas to be given priority for protection are: critical
habitats which contain rare, threatened or endangered species, wooded 100-year
floodways, wooded wetlands and wooded slopes, wooded or partially wooded stream
corridors with drainage areas greater than 50 acres, and riparian areas.
   (C)   Incentives. The preservation of an existing healthy tree shall
constitute an in-kind credit toward meeting the landscape requirements in the
Unified Development Ordinance. A credit will be given per tree that contributes
to and satisfies similarly the intent of a particular section of the Unified
Development Ordinance. The following credits shall be granted for an existing
tree as follows:
      (1)   For each preserved deciduous tree over four inches but less than
eight inches DBH a credit for three deciduous trees shall be granted;
      (2)   For each preserved deciduous tree over eight inches but less than
12 inches DBH a credit for four deciduous trees shall be granted;
      (3)   For each preserved deciduous tree over 12 inches DBH a credit for
five deciduous trees shall be granted. The Director of Community Development
may grant larger credits for trees over 12 inches DBH upon request;
      (4)   For each preserved evergreen tree over six feet tall but less than
10 feet tall shall be granted credit for two evergreen trees; and
      (5)   For each preserved evergreen tree over ten feet tall shall be
granted credit for three evergreen trees. The Director of Community Development
may grant larger credits for evergreen trees over ten feet tall upon request.
   (D)   Development density increases could be granted by the City Council.
   (E)   Greater open space credit could be granted due to the preservation of
quality natural areas.
   (F)   If preserving the natural landscape is chosen, prior to construction
on or removal of trees from a wooded area, the following standards apply:
      (1)   Provide a tree conservation plan outlining strategies for
retaining, protecting and replanting trees on a site. DNR can provide guidance.
Prepare a tree conservation map that outlines existing tree cover, priority
protection areas, proposed grading and proposed protective devices;
      (2)   Within the designated conservation areas, no trees with a DBH in
excess of six inches or evergreens eight feet or more in height shall be
removed from any lot unless trees are:
         (a)   Within the building site pad;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of the perimeter of the primary structure or
accessory structures;
         (c)   Between the front of the primary structure and the interior
roadway of the subdivision; and/or
         (d)   Required to be removed in order to comply with safety
requirements of any governmental agency;
      (3)   Tree retention areas shall be a minimum of 35 feet wide and minimum
contiguous area of 10,000 square feet; and
      (4)   A builder who violates the tree conservation plan once established
and improperly removes trees shall be required to reestablish such trees
consistent with the trees removed. For example, if a six-inch caliper tree is
removed, the builder may reestablish such tree by installing three two-inch
caliper trees or two three-inch caliper trees to total the caliper of the trees
removed.
   (G)   Prior to construction around a specimen tree in a tree conservation
area, the following standards apply:
      (1)   Install highly visible (orange) construction fencing at least three
feet outside the dripline of the trees;
      (2)   Avoid injuring roots when installing anchoring posts for fencing;
      (3)   Signs should be posted clearly identifying the plant protection
zone; and
      (4)   If a portion greater than 30% of the area within the drip line is
unavoidably impacted, applicant shall install a root aeration system, tree
well, retaining wall or raised boardwalk as appropriate permanent protection.
   (H)   Prior to construction in a riparian area:
      (1)   The petitioner shall work with the Community Development Department
regarding conservation of riparian areas on site;
      (2)   Establish or enhance forest buffers of at least 50% feet wide
adjacent to intermittent and perennial streams;
      (3)   Newly planted trees and shrubs shall be species native to central
Indiana;
      (4)   Trees sizes may be a minimum of one-inch caliper unless otherwise
approved by the Director of Community Development; and
      (5)   For optimal survival and unless irrigated with an automatic system,
planting should occur in the spring or fall.
(Ord. 080403C, passed 12-15-03; Am. Ord. 060412, passed 6-4-12; Am. Ord.
091514A, passed 11-17-14)
CHAPTER 163: HOME RENTAL REGISTRATION AND PERMITTING PROGRAM
Section
   
163.01   Purpose and applicability
   
163.02   Definitions
   
163.03   Requirements
   
163.04   Registration of home rental units
   
163.05   Home rental unit permits
   
163.06   Revocation of home rental unit permit
 
   
163.99   Penalty
§ 163.01 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The home rental registration and permitting program is adopted for the
following purposes:
      (1)   To ensure public health, safety, and welfare insofar as they are
affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of homes used as rental
units;
      (2)   To facilitate enforcement of the City of Fishers Code of Ordinances
Title XV;
      (3)   To protect the character, stability and vibrancy of the City of
Fishers, particularly its residential neighborhoods and its downtown;
      (4)   To promote maintenance of homes and thereby ensure public health,
safety and welfare; and
      (5)   To encourage home ownership and the social benefits it brings,
including civic engagement, community investment, and improved health, as well
as recognize that homeowners not only intend to maintain property, but to
improve their property.
   (B)   The home rental registration and permitting program applies to all
home rental units located within the corporate boundaries of the City of
Fishers. It does not apply to any property regulated as a “short term rental”
property under IC 36-1-24-1 et seq. Nothing in this chapter prevents a
homeowner’s association from enacting more restrictive requirements in its
covenants.
(Ord. 022425A, passed 4-21-25)
§ 163.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BENEFICIAL OWNER. Any person, agent, or organization who, directly or
indirectly (1) exercises substantial control over a home rental unit; or (2)
owns or controls not less than 25% of the ownership interests of the owner or
beneficial owner.
   HOME RENTAL PERMIT. A permit, issued by the Director of the Department of
Planning & Zoning or his or her designee under this chapter, authorizing the
owner to let for occupancy a home rental unit.
   HOME RENTAL UNIT. A single-family home or townhome let for occupancy in
entirety by an owner or beneficial owner. This definition does not include the
following arrangements, unless the arrangements are created to avoid
application of this chapter:
      (1)   Occupancy by the purchaser of a single-family home or townhome
under a contract of sale, provided the contract for sale is properly recorded
with the Hamilton County Recorder’s Office;
      (2)   Occupancy in a rectory or parsonage by a person(s) generally
assumed to occupy such a dwelling;
      (3)   Rental of a single-family home or townhome where the owner(s)
resides in the single-family home or townhome and leases to individuals or a
family while they are absent from the City of Fishers for short periods of
time, not to exceed one year, and who intends to return to their single-family
home or townhome at the expiration of the lease period;
      (4)   Rental of a single-family home or townhome where the owner(s) who
resided in the single-family home or townhome has been relocated by their
employer in excess of 50 miles from the location of the single-family home or
townhome in the last year;
      (5)   Rental of a single-family home or townhome where the owner or owner
(s) who resided in the single-family home or townhome are active members of the
military and have been deployed;
      (6)   Rental of a single-family home or townhome where the owner(s) who
resided in the single-family or townhome has experienced a death, divorce,
transfer to assisted living or other life situation which has necessitated them
to vacate the single-family home or townhome in the last year and they would
experience an undue hardship if they sold the single-family home or townhome;
      (7)   Rental of a single-family home or townhome where the tenant is a
legal dependent or parent of the owner(s) of the single-family home or
townhome;
      (8)   Rental of a single-family home or townhome where the owner(s) who
resided in the single-family home or townhome has, in the last year, listed the
single-family home or townhome on the multiple listing service (MLS) for more
than six months and has been unable to sell the single-family home or townhome;
and
      (9)   Rental of a single-family home or townhome that is located in a
subdivision developed and built with the intention of all single-family homes
or townhomes located in the subdivision being inhabited by a tenant and not an
owner.
   LEGACY UNITS. Home rental units existing within a subdivision on or prior to
the effective date of this ordinance for which the owner has submitted a
complete initial registration by December 31, 2025.
   LEGAL DEPENDENT. Natural born or adopted children, spouses, household
members covered by conservatorship or guardianship or those other adults
claimed on tax returns as legal dependents.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY. To permit, provide, or offer possession or occupancy of a
single-family home or townhome by an owner or beneficial owner to a third party
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
an unrecorded contract for sale.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, or organization having a legal interest in a
single-family home or townhome; or recorded in the official records of the
Hamilton County Recorder’s Office as holding title to a single-family home or
townhome; or otherwise having control of a single-family home or townhome,
including the guardian of the estate of any such person, and the executor or
administrator of the estate of such person if ordered to take possession of a
single-family home or townhome by a court. For the purposes of this chapter, a
person with a lease hold interest or an unrecorded contract for sale shall not
be considered an owner.
   SINGLE-FAMILY HOME. A detached residential dwelling unit.
   SUBDIVISION. A neighborhood or other similar residential development of ten
single-family homes or more, or ten townhomes or more, that has been approved
by the City of Fishers as a plat bearing the same name with different phases or
as a planned unit development, as shown on the Hamilton County, Indiana parcel
card/property report under “subdivision” or “subdivision name.”
   TENANCY AGREEMENT. All agreements, written, oral or implied, and valid rules
and regulations embodying the terms and conditions concerning the use and
occupancy of a home rental unit.
   TENANT. Any person entitled to occupy a home rental unit under a tenancy
agreement to the exclusion of others.
   TOWNHOME. Any residential unit, including platted condominiums, designed for
one family that shares one or more common walls with another similar
residential unit and is located on its own lot, tract or parcel of real estate.
(Ord. 022425A, passed 4-21-25)
§ 163.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   No owner shall let for occupancy a home rental unit without first, in
accordance with §§
163.04 and
163.05:
   (A)   Registering the home rental unit with the Department of Planning &
Zoning; and
   (B)   Obtaining a home rental permit from the Department of Planning &
Zoning.
(Ord. 022425A, passed 4-21-25)
§ 163.04 REGISTRATION OF HOME RENTAL UNITS.
   (A)   An owner of a home rental unit shall register all home rental units.
Registration of a home rental unit shall be effected by furnishing the
Department of Planning & Zoning upon a form supplied by the Department of
Planning & Zoning, the following information:
      (1)   Name(s) of all owner(s);
      (2)   Name(s) of all beneficial owner(s);
      (3)   Street address of owner(s);
      (4)   Phone number of owner(s);
      (5)   Email address of owner(s);
      (6)   Name, street address, phone number and email address of agent, if
any, authorized to act on behalf of the owner(s) in regard to the home rental
unit, including service of process;
      (7)   Verification that a Homestead Property Tax Deduction is not being
claimed on the property while in use as a rental unit; and
      (8)   Whether the owner or single-family home or townhome:
         (a)   Has been cited for violation of any requirement imposed by Title
XV of the Fishers Municipal Code, including this chapter;
         (b)   Is current on all City of Fishers utility invoices (sanitary
sewer, trash, and stormwater); and
         (c)   Has been the subject of more than seven public safety calls for
service, as defined by §
100.02 of the Fishers Municipal Code.
      (9)   Certification that, if the applicant receives a home rental unit
permit, the single-family home or townhome will be in compliance with
applicable Homeowners Association restrictive covenants regarding limitation on
homes within the subdivision being let for occupancy, if any.
   (B)   By listing a street address of the owner(s) in the home rental unit
registration, the owner(s) thereby consents to service of process at that
address.
   (C)   Any owner(s) who does not reside in or have their principal place of
business in Indiana shall designate and list an in-state agent under division
(A)(6).
   (D)   The home rental unit registration form shall be signed by the owner(s)
and not the owner’s agent.
   (E)   Whenever an owner(s) or agent changes his contact information (mailing
address, phone number or email address) it shall be his responsibility to
provide the Department of Planning & Zoning with an updated home rental unit
registration form. All updated registration forms shall be signed by the owner
and not the owner’s agent.
   (F)   Whenever ownership of the home rental unit changes and the new owner
intends to let the unit for occupancy, the new owner shall re-register the unit
with the Department of Planning & Zoning within 30days of obtaining title to
the home rental unit. Each parcel of property on which a home rental unit is
located requires a separate registration.
   (G)   All current owners shall submit an initial registration application
for any and all existing home rental units by December 31, 2025. Thereafter,
any owner shall have 30 days from obtaining ownership in a home rental unit, to
register that home rental unit.
(Ord. 022425A, passed 4-21-25)
§ 163.05 HOME RENTAL UNIT PERMITS.
   (A)   The Department of Planning & Zoning shall treat a home rental unit
registration form as an application for a home rental unit permit.
   (B)   The Department of Planning & Zoning shall issue a home unit rental
permit to the home rental unit’s owner(s) if and only if all of the following
criteria are satisfied:
      (1)   The home rental unit registration form contains all of the
information required by §
163.04.
      (2)   (a)   The owner or single-family home or townhome:
            1.   Has not been cited for violation of any requirement imposed by
Title XV of the Fishers Municipal Code, including this chapter;
            2.   Is current on all city utility invoices (sanitary sewer,
trash, and stormwater); and
            3.   Has not been the subject of more than seven public safety
calls for service, as defined by §
100.02 of the Fishers Municipal Code.
         (b)   If the owner or property has been found in violation of (B)(2)
(a)1. through 3., the Director of Department of Planning & Zoning may determine
in his or her discretion that the public interest nevertheless supports issuing
a home rental unit permit.
      (3)   At the time the home rental unit permit would be issued, less than
10% of the single-family homes or townhomes in the subdivision are registered
and permitted as home rental units.
         (a)   Division (B)(3) shall not apply to legacy units as defined in
this chapter but shall apply to any home rental unit registered after December
31, 2025.
         (b)   If a legacy unit is registered by December 31, 2025, and the
registration satisfies the requirements of § 163.04, the legacy unit shall be
issued a home rental unit permit even if it results in the subdivision having
more than 10% home rental units. However, beginning January 1, 2026, no
additional home rental unit permits shall be issued for a single-family home or
townhome within the subdivision until the subdivision is in compliance with
division (B)(3) (has less than 10% home rental units). Once the subdivision has
less than 10% home rental units, home rental unit permits shall become
available up to the 10% threshold set forth in division (B)(3).
   (C)   A rental unit permit shall not expire until the ownership of a home
rental unit changes. If the ownership of the home rental unit changes, the new
owner may apply for a new home rental unit permit.
   (D)   Home rental unit permits may not be sold, transferred, or otherwise
alienated.
   (E)   The Department of Planning & Zoning shall not charge a fee to obtain a
home rental unit permit.
   (F)   A denial of home rental unit permit may be appealed under §
163.99.
(Ord. 022425A, passed 4-21-25)
§ 163.06 REVOCATION OF HOME RENTAL UNIT PERMIT.
   (A)   A home rental unit permit may be revoked under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Failure to correct violations within the time specified in a notice
of violation issued pursuant to this chapter;
      (2)   Any other violation of Title XV of the Fishers Municipal Code;
      (3)   Continued delinquency of city utility bills; or
      (4)   Any specific provisions of the city ordinances that place undue
burden on public safety resources (i.e. more than seven calls for service to
public safety).
      (5)   The home rental unit is not in compliance with the subdivision
Homeowner Association restrictive covenants’ as required by §
163.04(A)(9).
   (B)   The Director of Planning & Zoning may send evidence of § 163.06 to the
City’s Law Department and the City Law Department may bring an action in the
name of the City of Fishers in Fishers City Court or in Superior or Circuit
Court of Hamilton County to revoke a home rental unit permit.
(Ord. 022425A, passed 4-21-25)
§ 163.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Beginning January 1, 2026, any owner who fails to register a home
rental unit or provides false or incomplete information on the home rental unit
registration form in violation of §
163.04 commits a civil violation and shall pay to the city a civil monetary
fine in the amount of $250.
   (B)   Any owner who lets for occupancy a home rental unit in violation of §
163.05 commits a civil violation and shall submit their tenancy agreement to
the city and pay to the city a civil monetary fine in the amounts as follows:
      (1)   First violation: $1,000.
      (2)   Second and subsequent violation: not less than $5,000 nor more than
$7,500.
   (C)   A violation continues to exist until corrected and verified by the
Director of the Department of Planning & Zoning. Correction includes, but is
not limited to any or a combination of:
      (1)   Cessation of an unlawful practice;
      (2)   Remediation of a violation;
      (3)   Payment of fees or fines;
      (4)   Vacancy of a home rental unit; and
      (5)   Other remedy acceptable to the city.
   (D)   The Director of the Department of Planning & Zoning may issue a notice
of violation to any owner who commits a civil violation under this chapter. The
notice of violation may be served by personal service, by certified mail or by
placement in a conspicuous place on the home rental unit. If personal service
is made, said official will, in a conspicuous manner, wear on his or her person
identification of his or her employment with the city.
   (E)   The notice of violation shall serve as notice to the owner that the
owner has committed a civil violation and shall include:
      (1)   The date of issuance;
      (2)   The name of the owner charged and the address of the home rental
unit with respect to which the violation occurred;
      (3)   The civil monetary fine the city will impose for the violation and
where the fine may be paid;
      (4)   The remedy or combination of remedies pursuant to division (C) and
the date on which the owner shall complete the remedial action;
      (5)   Contact information for the Department of Planning & Zoning; and
      (6)   How to appeal the notice of violation.
   (F)   A notice of violation or a denial of a home rental unit permit may be
appealed to the City of Fishers City Court within ten days of receipt of the
notice of violation or denial of home rental unit permit.
   (G)   If the owner does not timely file an appeal, complete corrective
action, or pay the fine by the date set forth in the notice of violation, the
Director of Planning & Zoning shall send the notice of violation and all
supporting documentation to the head of the City of Fishers Law Department. The
head of the City of Fishers Law Department shall in the name of the City of
Fishers bring an enforcement action in the Fishers City Court or in the Circuit
or Superior Courts of Hamilton County, for civil monetary fines and penalties
and/or mandatory and injunctive relief in the enforcement of and to secure
compliance with this chapter. Any such action may be joined with an action to
enforce any other ordinance.
   (H)   An owner found to be in violation may be enjoined from letting the
home rental unit for occupancy and is further liable for all civil monetary
fines, court costs, and fees. No costs may be assessed against the city in any
such action.
   (I)   Seeking civil penalties as authorized in this section does not
preclude the city from seeking alternative relief from the Court in the same
action or any other remedy in a separate action. The remedies provided for in
this title shall be cumulative, and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to
any other remedies available in law or equity.
   (J)   If an owner fails to pay the civil monetary penalty or violates the
terms of any other order imposed by the court, the failure shall be punishable
as contempt of court.
(Ord. 022425A, passed 4-21-25)
TITLE XVII: HEALTH DEPARTMENT
   Chapter
      
170.   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
171.   PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC POOL AND SPA OPERATIONS
      
172.   RESIDENTIAL ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEMS
      
173.   COMMUNICABLE DISEASE
      
174.   (RESERVED)
      
175.   (RESERVED)
      
176.   (RESERVED)
      
177.   (RESERVED)
      
178.   (RESERVED)
      
179.   (RESERVED)
      
180.   MISCELLANEOUS FEES OF THE HEALTH DEPARTMENT
Cross Reference:
   Department of Health, see §
32.05
CHAPTER 170: RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
170.01   Title
   
170.02   Purpose
   
170.03   Authority
   
170.04   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
170.05   Definitions
   
170.06   Permit requirements
   
170.07   Posting
   
170.08   Separate permits
   
170.09   Application for permit
   
170.10   Permit denial
   
170.11   Permit issuance
   
170.12   Term
   
170.13   Permit not transferable
   
170.14   Construction
   
170.15   Plans
   
170.16   Equipment
   
170.17   Prohibited equipment
   
170.18   Compliance
   
170.19   Grease trap
   
170.20   Fees
   
170.21   Plan review fees
   
170.22   Fees for renewal
   
170.23   Permit revoked
   
170.24   No permit or late renewal
   
170.25   Exemptions
   
170.26   Minimum standards insufficient
   
170.27   Sanitary requirements
   
170.28   Food safety
   
170.29   Frequency of inspection
   
170.30   Authority to inspect and copy records
   
170.31   Procedure when violations are noted
   
170.32   Examination and condemnation of food
   
170.33   Emergency closure/suspension
   
170.34   Permit revocation
   
170.35   Hearing
   
170.36   Enforcement
   
170.37   Violations
   
170.38   Injunction
   
170.39   Expense
   
170.40   Remedies cumulative
   
170.41   Request for notice
 
   
170.99   Penalty
§ 170.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall be
known as the "Food Establishments Regulations of the City of Fishers" and may
be cited as such and will be referred to herein as "this chapter".
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards for the
prevention and suppression of disease and health risks associated with the
preparation and distribution of food through food service operations within the
city, and to otherwise promote the mission of the food protection program to
protect the health of all persons in the city.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.03 AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer, and the Health Officer's agents and representatives are
hereby authorized to issue permits, collect permit and incidental fees, perform
inspections, order or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
chapter, and are otherwise authorized to perform all actions necessary for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.04 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The regulations of the Indiana State Department of Health as found in Title
410 IAC-7 et seq., as may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference into this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Undefined terms
shall have the meaning prescribed to them by 410 IAC 7-15.5, 410 IAC 7-22, 410
IAC 7-23, or 410 IAC 7-24. In addition to or to otherwise supplement or to
conveniently provide definitions for interpretation, this chapter shall include
the following definitions.
   BOARD. The City of Fishers Board of Health.
   CERTIFIED FOOD HANDLER. A food handler who holds a certificate recognized by
the Conference for Food Protection or an equivalent nationally recognized
certification program as further defined by 410 IAC 7-22.
   CRITICAL VIOLATIONS. Those violations designated as being critical in 410
IAC 7-24, and as amended hereafter.
   COMMUNICABLE DISEASE. Those diseases which epidemiological evidence
indicates can be transmitted through food preparation or service.
   DEPARTMENT. The City of Fishers Health Department, and its employees.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, room, basement, vehicle of transportation,
cellar, or open or enclosed area occupied or used for handling food, as further
defined by IC 16-18-2-137. This definition also includes a RETAIL FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT; however, it does not include a bed and breakfast establishment.
   FOOD PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT. Any commercial establishment in which food is
processed or otherwise prepared, packaged or manufactured for human
consumption.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  The Health Officer of the Health Department and his/her
authorized representatives.
   MICRO MARKET. An unstaffed self-checkout retail food establishment not
accessible by the general public; with displays that do not exceed 75 linear
feet which contain an automated payment kiosk, located within a business and
only accessed by customers of business, employees, or escorted guests known to
business.
   MICRO MARKET DISPLAY. An open rack; refrigerator; freezer; vending machine;
or beverage dispenser for use of food display.
   MOBILE FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any food establishment without a fixed
location capable of being readily moved intact from location to location where
food, intended for human consumption outside the facility is stored, sold or
offered in open form, fresh or frozen.
   NEW PERMITTEE. Any person, other than an immediate family member, who
acquires, through an asset purchase agreement, stock purchase agreement,
merger, consolidation, gift or other similar method, more than 50% of the
control of a prior permittee's business.
   NON-CRITICAL VIOLATIONS. Violations designated as being non-critical in 410
IAC 7-24, as amended.
   OPERATOR. One that operates a business or operates as a business.
   PERMIT. A certificate or a permit number of a size and style previously
approved by the Health Officer.
   PERMITTEE. The person who is the owner of or responsible for the operation
of a food establishment, including a food establishment's authorized
representative, and who shall be responsible for the acceptance of all notices
at the address listed on the application for any permit issued hereunder.
   PERSON. Includes, but not limited to, an individual, corporation, firm,
partnership, proprietorship, association, business organization, municipality
or any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual, trust or estate,
or the agent or legal representative thereof.
   PERSON IN CHARGE (PIC). Te individual present at a retail food establishment
who is responsible for the operation at the time of inspection as further
defined by 410 IAC 7-24-60, as amended.
   RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. An operation that:
      (1)   Stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends, or otherwise provides
food for human consumption, such as the following:
         (a)   A restaurant, satellite or catered feeding location;
         (b)   A catering operation if the operation provides food directly to
a consumer or to a conveyance used to transport people;
         (c)   A market;
         (d)   A grocery store;
         (e)   A convenience store;
         (f)   A vending location;
         (g)   An institution;
         (h)   A food bank;
         (i)   A commissary;
         (j)   A cottage industry;
         (k)   A hospice facility;
         (l)   A health care facility;
         (m)   A health facility;
         (n)   A child care facility;
         (o)   An assisted living facility;
      (2)   Relinquishes possession of food to a consumer directly or
indirectly through a delivery service, such as home delivery of grocery orders
or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery services that is provided by common
carriers, all as more particularly defined by 410 IAC 7-24-79, as amended.
   RETAIL FOOD MARKET ESTABLISHMENT. Any food establishment, including, but not
limited to, a grocery, meat market, poultry market, fish market, egg market,
delicatessen, confectionery, candy kitchen, nut store, retail bakery store, or
any food establishment, whether fixed or movable, where food, intended for
human consumption off the premises, is manufactured, produced, stored,
prepared, handled, transported, sold or offered with or without charge, all as
more particularly defined by 410 IAC 7-24, as amended. Provided, however, that
the provisions of this chapter shall not include meat or poultry
slaughterhouses.
   SAFE HOLDING TEMPERATURE. As indicated in 410 IAC 7-24, as it may be
hereafter amended, and as applied to potentially hazardous foods shall mean
food temperatures at 41° Fahrenheit or below, and 135° Fahrenheit or above, and
frozen foods at 0° Fahrenheit or below; provided, however, a tolerance of 5°
Fahrenheit shall be permitted on frozen foods only.
   SANITATION GRADE. The grade given to a food establishment by the Department
during its annual inspection based upon the sanitation grading system.
   SANITATION GRADING SYSTEM. The grading system in which the Department
conducts its annual inspection (and any reinspection) of food establishments
based on 410 IAC 7-24, as amended. The sanitation grading system has been
posted on the Department’s website and is incorporated by reference herein.
   TEMPORARY FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any food establishment in any
enclosure, stall or other facility, whether fixed or mobile, operating at one
site or location for a period of time not in excess of 14 consecutive days, in
conjunction with a single event or celebration, where food in open form
intended for human consumption on or off the premises is offered with or
without charge.
   UTENSIL. Any implement used in the storage, preparation, service,
consumption, display, transportation, or cleaning of food or drink products.
   VENDING MACHINE. The same as the term is defined in 410 IAC 7-24-102, as
amended; and a self-service device that, upon activation, through insertion of
coin, paper currency, token card, key, or by manual operation, dispenses unit
servings of food in bulk or in packages without the necessity of replenishing
the device between each vending operation.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20; Am. Ord. 101022B, passed 11-14-22)
§ 170.06 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give away any food or to
operate a food establishment or to act, whether actually or ostensibly, as a
food establishment operator within the city without possessing a valid permit
for each such operation from the Health Officer, unless otherwise exempted from
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.07 POSTING.
   (A)   With respect to the inaugural inspections, all permits shall be posted
by or before September 1, 2023. All permits shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in view of the public in each food establishment. With respect to mobile
food service establishments, the name, address and telephone number of the
permittee, not less than two inches in height, shall be conspicuously displayed
on each licensed mobile unit. In addition, a copy of the permit must be located
in each mobile unit at all times for purposes of identification.
   (B)   All sanitation grades, as determined in accordance with §
170.27, shall be posted on a placard provided by the Department on:
      (1)   Either the food establishment’s front window, door, or within five
feet of the front door or other direct entrance from the street; and
      (2)   If applicable, on the drive-through window, four to six feet above
ground level.
      (3)   If a food establishment does not have a direct entrance from the
street, the Department shall identify an acceptable place to post the
sanitation grade.
   (C)   Upon receipt from the Department, a food establishment shall be fined
$100 for every day it fails to post its sanitation grade.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20; Am. Ord. 101022B, passed 11-14-22)
§ 170.08 SEPARATE PERMITS.
   (A)   Separate permits will be required for each food establishment or
vending operator regardless of whether or not they are contained in the same
building when:
      (1)   The management or ownership is separate at the same location; or
      (2)    The food establishment is operated by the same management, but at
separate locations.
   (B)   Separate permits will not be required for a food establishment that
serves alcoholic beverages and is operated under a lease management agreement
or similar agreement in which the operator of the food establishment is not the
same as the holder of the alcohol license issued by the State of Indiana.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.09 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The application for a permit shall be made to the Health Officer on
forms provided by the Department. Such forms shall show, among other
information which may be required by the Health Officer, the legal name,
address, and telephone number of the permittee, the name under which said
permittee intends to operate, 24 hour emergency contact information, the
address of the establishment, and the number of food establishment personnel
employed at the establishment (which shall include the permittee's manager, or
other supervisory personnel). Said application shall include the signature of
the permittee or an authorized representative of the permittee.
   (B)   Applications for the following list of establishments require
additional information:
      (1)   Micro market. The number of micro markets intended to be operated,
the locations maintained by the permittee where supplies are kept or where
displays are repaired or renovated, and the type and form of the food or
beverages to be dispensed from the micro market displays.
      (2)   Temporary food service. The location of any commissary or
commissaries and where any supplies will be kept.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.10 PERMIT DENIAL.
   If an application for a permit is denied, the denial shall be in writing and
include the specific reasons, with citations to any applicable statute,
regulation, or other authority for the denial. In addition, the applicant's
right of appeal shall be noted with reference to the section of this chapter
providing for appeals.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.11 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   A permit shall be issued subsequent to application and upon a determination
by the Health Officer that the permittee has complied with all of the
applicable provisions of this chapter, the permittee has tendered the
appropriate fee as hereinafter specified, and after approval by any other
applicable regulatory agency or department, including but not limited to the
Building Commissioner, City Engineer, and Fire Department and compliance with
any other state or local ordinance, statute, or regulation. Any permit issued
by the Department between April 24, 2020 and the effective date of this chapter
is hereby void. A replacement permit shall be issued by the Department, free of
charge, to cover the duration of 2020.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.12 TERM.
   (A)   The permit for a retail food establishment, retail food market
establishment, mobile food service establishment, , bed and breakfast,
commissary, or food processing establishment shall be for a term of one year
beginning on January 1 each year. Said permits shall be renewed annually on or
before the last day of December; however, if the day of expiration of the
permit falls on a weekend or government- recognized holiday, the permittee will
be given until the following business day to renew the permit without late fees
being assessed. Permits applied for mid-year will qualify for a proration of
fees.
   (B)   The permit for a temporary food service establishment shall be for a
term not to exceed 14 consecutive days.
   (C)   Any permit for a farmers market shall be for a term of up to one year
running from March 1 the year of issue to February 28 the year after issue.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.13 PERMIT NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No permit issued to any permittee under this chapter shall be transferable
between locations or between operators.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.14 CONSTRUCTION.
   All food establishments which are hereinafter constructed or renovated shall
conform in their construction to the applicable requirements of 410 IAC 7-24,
as amended, as well as with this chapter and all applicable building, zoning
and fire codes.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.15 PLANS.
   No construction, renovation, or alteration for any food establishment shall
begin without the construction, renovation, or alteration plans being first
submitted to and approved by the Health Officer. Applications, including any
specificity required for particular materials required by any regulatory
agency, must be filled out in full or the application may be denied.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.16 EQUIPMENT.
   All equipment installed in a food establishment for use in the cleansing and
bactericidal treatment of utensils, or in the preparation, storing, handling,
cleaning, sanitizing, serving, or displaying of any food or beverage products,
shall be of a type conforming with all applicable requirements with regard to
proper holding temperatures, design, construction, location, and materials.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.17 PROHIBITED EQUIPMENT.
   The Health Officer may prohibit the further use of any equipment that fails
to meet the requirements of this chapter or any other rule, regulation, or
statute that applies to the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.18 COMPLIANCE.
   All individuals and entities regulated by this chapter must fully comply at
all times with all local and state building, zoning, and fire codes as a
condition of any permit. Failure of any permittee to fully comply with any
applicable building, zoning, and fire code shall be the basis for the
suspension, immediate closure or revocation or nonrenewal of any permit issued
hereunder.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.19 GREASE TRAP.
   Unless exempted by that agency or authority having jurisdiction, all food
establishments shall be required to install a grease interceptor in the waste
line leading from sinks, drains and other fixtures or equipment where grease
may be introduced into the drainage or sewage systems in quantities that can
affect line stoppage or hinder sewage treatment. The grease interceptor must be
installed in such a manner that meets all applicable requirements of any
applicable Building Department and shall be located in such areas as are easily
accessible for cleaning.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.20 FEES.
   Prior to the issuance or renewal of any permit, each permittee shall first
tender to the Department an application fee and a permit fee for each such
operation in accordance with the classification as established by the schedule
of fees as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.21 PLAN REVIEW FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Each new food establishment or bed and breakfast or any existing
food establishment or bed and breakfast desiring to remodel or build any
additions requiring a building or other permit which includes renovations to
the food preparation area shall be required to pay an initial fee for the
review of plans and specifications and for the initial inspection of the food
establishment or bed and breakfast. This fee is in addition to the permit fee.
In the instance where there are multiple food establishments or areas within
one building which will require staged final inspections at separate times, an
application fee as set out below will be required for each final inspection.
      (2)   Plan review fee: $150.
   (B)   Additional inspections or review. In those circumstances where
building or remodeling of a food establishment results in more than three
inspections of the food establishment's premises or continuing review of or
consultations regarding the plans thereof by the Health Officer, and which
inspections or review or consultations are necessitated due to failure to have
the plans completed or finalized at the time of application for a permit or the
failure to implement construction or remodeling consistent with the original
plans, or any other cause within the control of the food establishment which
results in continuing and extra review of or consultation regarding the plans
for the food establishment, there shall be an additional fee of $100 payable
prior to opening the food establishment.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.22 FEES FOR RENEWAL.
   Upon renewal or transfer (not requiring plan review) of permits, the
following fees will apply.
Permit Fees
Permit Fees
Retail Food Market Establishment
a.   Up to 10,000 square feet                                         $250
b.   10,001 to 35,000 square feet                                     $400
c.   35,001 to 60,000 square feet                                     $600
d.   60,001 square feet and over                                      $800
Retail Food Establishment
a.   1 through 10 employees                                           $200
b.   10 through 20 employees                                          $300
c.   21 employees and greater                                         $400
Farmers Market
                                                                         $5
a.   Home based vendor                                                No fee -
b.   Not-for-profits                                                  Registration
                                                                         only
Micro Market
a.   1 to 20 food or beverage displays                                $100
b.   21 to 50 machines                                                $150
c.   51 or more machines                                              $175
Temporary Food Service, Food Market Establishment, or Mobile Food
a.   3 days or less of operation                                      $20
      Each additional day                                          $10
b.   3 month                                                          $30
c.   6 month                                                          $60
d.   9 month                                                          $90
e.   Food prepared/served onsite                                      $100
f.   Prepackaged/pre-prepared food only                               $50
g.   Bed and breakfast                                                $150
h.   Catering-only permit                                             $200
Miscellaneous Fees
a.   Permit replacement fee                                           $10
b.   Processing fee (in addition to permit fee) applicable to any new $25
permit                                                                    
c.   Plan review - new establishment, remodel                         $150
d.   Plan review - ownership change, no remodel                       $100
e.   If more than 3 inspections or consultations, additional fee      $100
f.   Second critical violation                                        $50
g.   Third critical violation                                         $100
h.   Fourth critical violation                                        $200
i.   Operating without a permit or late renewal                       200% of
                                                                         annual fee
 
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20; Am. Ord. 101121B, passed 11-15-21)
§ 170.23 PERMIT REVOKED.
   A food establishment permit shall be revoked if false information is given
on the application or the application is not properly or accurately completed.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.24 NO PERMIT OR LATE RENEWAL.
   Should any permittee fail to obtain the permit prior to the opening of the
food establishment for business, or should any permittee fail to renew a permit
as required by this chapter, then said annual fee shall be 200% of the annual
fee set forth above for that particular food establishment. Nothing in this
section shall prevent the Health Officer from exercising any other rights or
duties regarding suspension, closure, or revocation of the permit with regard
to any food establishment.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.25 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The permit fee provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any fruit
and vegetable stands maintained and operated by a person who sells directly to
a consumer fresh fruits, vegetables, honey or cider; provided that, nothing
herein shall be construed to limit the Health Officer's authority to inspect
any such stands in order to insure public health.
   (B)   Exempt organizations such as sports leagues, church- sponsored soup
kitchens, churches, and temporary senior citizen feeding sites are exempt from
the permit provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Food establishments which sell or offer for sale directly to the
consumer only prepackaged confections such as candy, chewing gum, nut meats,
potato chips, pretzels, popcorn, coffee, juice, and soft drink beverages shall
be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Vending machines which dispense non-potentially hazardous food or
drink products in prepackaged or pre-bottled form, shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.26 MINIMUM STANDARDS INSUFFICIENT.
   The provisions of this chapter are intended to provide standards for
licensing for and inspection of food establishments. Nothing contained in this
chapter shall be construed to require the Health Officer to issue or prevent
the revocation of a permit if, after investigation by the Health Officer, the
Health Officer concludes that issuance or continuation of a permit results in
unacceptable health risks resulting from the size or configuration of the food
establishment, change of use or type of food being served compared with
existing facilities for the food establishment, and the likelihood that efforts
to ameliorate increased health risks resulting therefrom will be unsuccessful.
Any decision by the Health Officer to refuse to issue a permit or to revoke a
permit for reasons found in this section shall entitle an aggrieved food
establishment to a public hearing as provided in this chapter and a right to
appeal as provided herein or by law.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.27 SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Compliance required. All food establishments, retail food markets,
farmers markets, bed and breakfasts, vending operators, and food and beverage
vending machines shall comply with at least the minimum sanitary requirements
specified by the Indiana State Department of Health as provided in 410 IAC 7-24
and 410 IAC 7-22, and as those regulations may be amended or superseded
hereafter.
   (B)   Sanitation grading system.  The sanitation grading system is based on
the 2004 Indiana Retail Establishment Sanitation Requirements and 410 IAC 7-24,
and as those regulations may be amended from time to time. The sanitation
grading system shall be utilized by the Department to conduct its annual
inspection, and any re-inspections, of all food establishments. Every food
establishment shall begin the annual inspection with 100 points. Points will be
deducted by the Department with point values based upon the health risk the
violation poses to the public. Priority violations are violations that
contribute to the elimination, prevention, or reduction to an acceptable level,
hazards associated with food-borne illness or injury and there is no other
violation that more directly controls the hazard. Priority violations are five
points per violation. Foundation violations are violations that support,
facilitate, or enable one or more priority violations. Foundation violations
are three points per violation. Core violations are violations that usually
relate to general sanitation, operational controls, sanitation standard
operating procedures, facilities or structures, equipment design or general
maintenance. Core violations are two points per violation. The sanitation
grading system has been posted on the Department's website and is incorporated
by reference herein.
   (C)   Initial annual inspection.  
      (1)   The Department shall provide each food establishment with the
following sanitation grades:
         (a)   Grade A (81 to 100 points);
         (b)   Grade B (71-80 points); or
         (c)   Grade C (61-70 points).
      (2)   Food establishments shall be temporarily closed for receiving a
sanitation grade of 60 points or less or for an imminent health hazard. The
food establishment may reopen after all priority violations have been corrected
and any imminent health hazard has been eliminated.
      (3)   Each food establishment will be issued a grade based on their
annual inspection. Most food establishments should expect to be reinspected
shortly after their annual inspection to assure that any violations have been
addressed. Re-inspections are prioritized based on the health risks posed by
the violations cited during the annual inspection. There is no additional fee
to the initial annual inspection and initial reinspection.
   (D)   Mandatory re-inspections.  
      (1)   Food establishments that receive a sanitation grade of Grade B
during the initial annual inspection will receive at least one mandatory re-
inspection during the same year to assure ongoing compliance.
      (2)   Food establishments that receive a sanitation grade of Grade C
during the initial annual inspection may have up to three mandatory re-
inspections during the same year to assure ongoing compliance.
      (3)   Food establishments shall be charged 50% of their annual permit fee
for each subsequent violation-based inspection. Food establishments shall be
charged 100% of their annual permit fee for each full re-inspection (as
dictated by grade).
   (E)   Operator-requested re-inspection. Food establishments may choose to
request a full reinspection one time per calendar year for the opportunity to
improve their sanitary grade by one level (i.e., from a Grade C to a Grade B).
Operator-requested re-inspections shall be submitted to the Department through
its permit management system. Food establishments shall be charged at a rate of
150% of their annual permit fee for any operator-requested reinspection.
   (F)   Challenges to sanitation grade. Operators may challenge specific
points in the annual inspection report for reconsideration. Any challenge shall
be submitted through the Department’s permit management system within five days
of receiving the annual inspection report. Untimely submissions will not be
considered by the Department. All challenges must be supported by evidence. The
Department will attempt to review any challenge within 30 days of receiving a
timely submission. After its review, the Department shall notify the operator
of its decision to either:
      (1)   Uphold the specific point determination made during its annual
inspection; or
      (2)   Modify the specific point determination based upon the Department’s
further review of the timely submitted challenge.
   (G)   Final appeal.  If an operator, after timely completing the challenge
process provided in division (F), continues to feel aggrieved by the
Department’s final decision, the operator may submit an appeal to the Fishers
Health Board (the "Board"). Any appeal shall be submitted through the
Department’s permit management system within five days of receiving the
Department's final decision, as provided in division (F). Untimely submissions
will not be considered by the Board. The submission must state the specific
reasons for the appeal. An appeal that is timely submitted, and in compliance
with §
170.27, shall be placed on the agenda of the Board's next regularly scheduled
meeting, or within 30 days, whichever is sooner. At the Board hearing, the
operator and Department will have the opportunity to present evidence to the
Board, and the Board will have the opportunity to ask any questions in
furtherance of the issue. After conducting a hearing, the Board shall either
uphold, modify, or rescind the Department’s final decision. The Board’s
decision shall be a final and conclusive order on the matter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20; Am. Ord. 101022B, passed 11-14-22)
§ 170.28 FOOD SAFETY.
   Every person who is employed, or is about to be employed in a food
establishment, shall be familiar with the requirements of 410 IAC 7-24, as
amended. A copy of 410 IAC 7-24 shall be kept on the premises at all times. All
food establishment personnel employed by a food establishment may be required
to attend a food safety education program for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   If the establishment is subjected to immediate closure by the Health
Officer and the education program is deemed necessary by the Health Officer;
   (B)   If the Health Officer determines the necessity of a food safety
education program as a result of a hearing dealing with violations of this
chapter;
   (C)   If upon inspection it is determined that remedial efforts have not
been made to correct prior violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.29 FREQUENCY OF INSPECTION.
   Each food establishment for which a permit is required under the provisions
of this chapter shall, and any other individual or entity which delivers or
transfers food may, be inspected as frequently as deemed appropriate by the
Health Officer.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.30 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT AND COPY RECORDS.
   The provisions of IC16-20-8-1 et seq., or any amendment thereof, shall apply
to inspections and access to records of inspections.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.31 PROCEDURE WHEN VIOLATIONS ARE NOTED.
   (A)   At the time of an inspection any violation(s) discovered by the Health
Officer shall be recorded on an inspection report that is equivalent to the
Indiana State Department of Health inspection report.
   (B)   A copy of the inspection report stating any violation(s) and their
corrective dates shall be given to the PIC of the establishment, or the report
shall be delivered by mail to the address of the establishment listed on the
permit application or e-mailed, as required under IC16-20-8-5, as amended.
   (C)   The Health Officer, or the Health Officer's authorized representative,
shall have the final approval on all food establishment inspection reports and
related documents; and shall reserve the right to make changes as deemed
necessary in accordance with IC16-20-8-5, as amended.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.32 EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD.
   The Health Officer may, along with any other enforcement agency (if
applicable), upon written notice to the owner or PIC, place a hold order on any
food if that food is in violation of any state laws. A written order must
specify the reason for the hold order. The Health Officer or authorized agent
shall tag, label, or otherwise identify any food subject to the order and
follow applicable statutes or regulations concerning disposal or future use or
disposition of the food.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.33 EMERGENCY CLOSURE/SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Health Officer shall issue emergency closure for any permitted
establishment for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to possess a valid food permit required by this chapter;
      (2)   The presence of any condition that poses an imminent health hazard
or substantial harm to the public health and safety.
   (B)   Suspension. The Health Officer may suspend a permit for any permitted
establishment, without prior notice or hearing for interference with the Health
Officer to perform their duties, including denial of access to the premises.
When a permit is suspended the permittee shall cease operation immediately. The
suspension shall become effective upon service of a written notice to the
permit holder or PIC of the establishment. The Health Department may end the
suspension at any time with or without a hearing if it is determined that the
reason of the suspension no longer exists.
   (C)   Procedure. Any closure order will be in writing. The order shall
identify the food establishment, describe the specified grounds upon which
closure is based, direct the immediate closure of the establishment and
vacating of the premises by consumers, list the corrective actions necessary to
re-open the food establishment, and state that a hearing on the emergency
closure may be requested by the owner or operator. The order shall be served in
person on the owner, or PIC of the establishment.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.34 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Health Officer, after providing an opportunity for a hearing shall
permanently revoke a permit issued under this chapter for serious or repeat
violation(s) of any of the requirements of 410 IAC 7-24, as amended, or this
chapter; or, interference with the Health Officer or the Health Officer's agent
(s) in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   Prior to such action, the Health Officer shall notify the permittee in
writing stating the reasons for the permit revocation and advising that the
permit shall be permanently revoked after no less than ten days following
service of such notice, unless a written request for a hearing is filed with
the Health Department by the permittee prior to the date upon which the permit
revocation is to become effective. The permit may be suspended for cause
pending its revocation or a hearing.
   (C)   If no request for a hearing is filed prior to the date the permit
revocation is to become effective, revocation of the permit becomes final.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.35 HEARING.
   (A)   All hearings required under this or any other section shall be open to
the public and held with sufficient written notice to the permittee of time,
place, and nature thereof to enable the permittee to appear and participate in
the hearing. The notice of hearing shall be served upon the permittee by
leaving or mailing by certified mail the notice to the address listed on the
permit application as the permittee's mailing address or such other address as
the permittee shall designate in writing to the Health Officer.
   (B)   At any hearing required under this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall
be the Health Officer or the Health Officer's designee. Every person who is a
party to such proceedings shall have the right to submit evidence, to cross-
examine witnesses and to be represented by legal counsel. All such hearings
shall be conducted in an informal manner, but irrelevant, immaterial or unduly
repetitive evidence may be excluded.
   (C)   Upon the conclusion of such hearing, the Health Officer shall enter a
final order, subject to the right of appeal to a court having jurisdiction of
the parties and of the subject matter of the appeal.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.36 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter
shall be null and void. A violation of an order issued by the Health Officer
shall be considered to be a violation of this chapter and of Indiana law, when
applicable.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.37 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Health Officer determines that any entity subject to the
provisions of this chapter, is in willful violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter, in addition to any other remedy or penalty imposed by this
chapter, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence of said willful violation to
the City Attorney or Prosecuting Attorney of Hamilton County, Indiana who shall
seek all appropriate legal remedies against the person(s) violating the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§170.38 INJUNCTION.
   The Health Officer may bring an action for an injunction in the Circuit or
any Superior Court of Hamilton County, Indiana, to restrain any person from
violating the provisions of this chapter, to cause such violation(s) to be
prevented, abated or removed, or to otherwise enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.39 EXPENSE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be liable
to the Health Department for the expense, loss or damage occasioned by reason
of such violation, including reasonable attorney's fees and costs.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.40 REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.
   The remedies provided in this subchapter shall be cumulative, and not
exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedy provided by law.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.41 REQUEST FOR NOTICE.
   Any entity, which is not a retail food establishment, intending to host an
event in the city which involves providing food to the public for the purpose
of fundraising, customer appreciation, grand openings, community dinners, may
request a courtesy public service consultation by requesting such a
consultation from the Health Department.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.99 PENALTY.
   The provisions of 410 IAC 7-23, as amended, provides local health
departments with authority to assess civil penalties (fines) for violators of
laws intended to suppress disease and health risks associated with preparation
and distribution of food. For purposes of tracking critical item violations and
imposing fines under this chapter the Department shall maintain inspection
records for not less than one year from the date of any inspection conducted
after the effective date of this chapter. No fine is payable the first time a
critical item violation is noted within any one-year period after the effective
date of this chapter. For a second or subsequent critical item violation of
this chapter after its effective date, or within one year of the date of an
inspection conducted after the effective date of this chapter, a civil penalty
is payable as provided in this chapter.
   (A)   The following civil penalties (fine) shall apply for a critical item
violation which reoccurs for a second or subsequent time within any one year
period after the effective date of this chapter, regardless if that critical
item can be corrected immediately:
      (1)   The second time the same critical item violation is determined
within any one- year period, there will be a fine of $50.
      (2)   The third time the same critical item violation is determined
within any one-year period there will be a fine of $100.
      (3)   If the same critical item reappears as a violation for a fourth (or
more) time within any one-year period, there will be a fine of $200.
   (B)   Each day after the expiration of the time limit for abating any
violation of this chapter or completing other actions as ordered by the Health
Department or the Health Officer, shall constitute a distinct and separate
offense.
   (C)   All fines shall be payable in full within 30 days of assessment,
unless otherwise ordered by the Hearing Officer. Failure to pay fines by the
due date will result in an additional 10% late fee. No permit is to be issued
or renewed until all fines have been paid in full. Additionally, the Health
Officer, or his/her designee, may temporarily suspend any permit where fines
are more than 60 days past due. Any fines and late fees may be collected in any
manner provided herein or as provided by law including any law for collection
of debts, along with attorney fees incurred to collect said amounts owing and
with all costs of collection.
   (D)   Any assessment of a civil penalty by this chapter is subject to the
right of appeal and a public hearing which will be scheduled, conducted, and
concluded as provided in §
170.36. Any request for an appeal shall be filed in writing with the Health
Officer within ten days of assessment of the civil penalty.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
CHAPTER 171: PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC POOL AND SPA OPERATIONS
Section
   
171.01   Title
   
171.02   Authority
   
171.03   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
171.04   Definitions
   
171.05   License requirements
   
171.06   Issuance of license
   
171.07   License restrictions
   
171.08   Sampling and testing
   
171.09   Addition of chemicals
   
171.10   Inspections
   
171.11   Report of inspection
   
171.12   Correction of violations
   
171.13   Suspension of license
   
171.14   License revocation
   
171.15   Service of notice
   
171.16   Hearings
   
171.17   License fees
   
171.18   License fee penalty
   
171.19   Plan review
   
171.20   Miscellaneous
§ 171.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be referred to as the "Fishers Swimming Pool Ordinance".
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 170.02 AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer, and the Health Officer's agents and representatives are
hereby authorized to issue permits, collect permit and incidental fees, perform
inspections, order or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
chapter, and are otherwise authorized to perform all actions necessary for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.03 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The regulations located at 410 IAC 6-2.1 et seq., entitled the Indiana
Public and Semi-Public Pools Code of the Indiana, as amended from time to time
and promulgated by the Indiana State Department of Health, and 675 IAC 20 et
seq., as amended from time to time and promulgated by the Indiana Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission are hereby incorporated and adopted
by reference.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires different meaning. Undefined terms
shall have the meaning prescribed to them by 410 IAC 6-2.1 and 675 IAC 20. In
addition to or to otherwise supplement or to conveniently provide definitions
for interpretation, this chapter shall include the following definitions.
   ALKALINITY. The total amount of bicarbonate, carbonate, and hydroxide
compounds present in the water. ALKALINITY refers to the ability or capacity of
water to resist change in pH.
   ANNUAL POOLS. Pools that are open 12 months of the year.
   CALCIUM HARDNESS. The amount of calcium dissolved in the water. CALCIUM
HARDNESS shall be expressed in parts per million of calcium carbonate.
   CHLORINE. The chemical element Cl that exists as a gas in its elemental form
and which is an oxidant and biocidal agent, used in swimming pool disinfection.
Chlorine may be derived from chlorine gas, calcium hypochlorite, sodium
hypochlorite, trichloro-s-triazinetrione or lithium hypochlorite. Sodium
dichloro-s-triazinetrione (dichlor shock) is excluded from this definition.
   COMBINED CHLORINE (CHLORAMINE). That portion of the total chlorine existing
in water in chemical combination with ammonia, nitrogen, and/or organic
compounds. Chloramine causes eye and skin irritation and has a strong,
objectionable odor.
   CYANURIC ACID. A chemical family of pool sanitizer products (isocyanurates)
that are used to prevent the decomposition of chlorine by ultra-violet light.
CYANURIC ACID is also referred to as a stabilizer, isocyanuric acid,
conditioner, or triazinetrione.
   DISINFECTANT. A chemical or chemicals used to react with and to kill
undesirable or pathogenic organisms and having an easily measured free
residual. Disinfectants are pesticides and must be registered with the EPA
under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act.
   FREE CHLORINE. That portion of the total chlorine remaining in chlorinated
water that is not combined with ammonia, nitrogen compounds, or other compounds
and will react chemically with undesirable or pathogenic organisms.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Fishers Health Department, and its employees.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition which in the opinion of the Health Officer may
reasonably lead to injury or disease or put the public health at risk. HEALTH
HAZARD may include, but shall not be limited to, unacceptable disinfection
residuals, unacceptable bacterial levels, or water clarity that does not allow
viewing all parts of the pool.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the Health Department, or his/her duly
authorized representatives.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. Any event, circumstance, or situation, which in the
discretion of the Health Officer, presents a serious and present health or
safety risk to a person or to the public at large.
   INSPECTION. A review of any portion of a swimming pool facility and its
operations. The facility shall include the swimming pool and surrounding area,
water supply, sewage disposal system, mechanical equipment and equipment room,
chemical storage facility, safety and testing equipment, bath house, and any
other portion of the swimming pool facility as deemed necessary by the Health
Officer. The operations shall include bacteriological reports, operation
records, and chemical water testing results.
   LICENSEE. Any individual, association, company, corporation, partnership,
division of government or other group acting as a unit, trust, estate, agent,
or legal representative thereof who shall hold title to the real estate upon
which the pool is placed, or who shall be legally responsible for the
operations of the pool, or who shall be so named as the owner on the pool
permit application.
   MECHANICAL CHEMICAL FEEDER. A device approved by the Health Officer that
allows for continuous (24 hours per day) and automatic additional of a chemical
which imparts an easily measured free residual. All such devices must be sized
to provide an acceptable chemical residual, sufficiently adjustable to readily
increase or decrease the chemical as necessary, and durable enough to operate
continuously 24 hours per day.
   OPERATING RECORDS. A written record on approved forms, completed daily,
outlining hours of operation, and all testing results (including bacterial,
disinfectant residual, combined chlorine, pH, alkalinity, cyanuric acid,
calcium hardness, and any changes to the pool operation).
   PERSONS IN CHARGE (PIC). The individual(s) who has knowledge of all laws,
rules, and regulations of both the State of Indiana and City of Fishers
governing swimming pools and who supervises compliance with all parts of this
chapter. The PIC shall be available to the Health Department, either in person
or by telephone, at all times during normal working hours. Moreover, the PIC
shall be available within one hour for emergencies during non-working hours.
   pH. A measure of the relative acidity or basicity of water as indicated by
the hydrogen ion concentration. pH is expressed as a number on the scale of 0
to 14.
   POOL ENCLOSURE. The barrier between the swimming pool area and the area
outside which in intended to deter unauthorized entry from outside the swimming
pool area. The pool enclosure shall provide self-closing and self-latching
hardware on all gates, doors, or other access through the enclosure and shall
be locked when the swimming pool is closed.
   PUBLIC POOL. Any pool, other than a semi-public pool, which is intended to
be used for swimming or bathing and is operated by a concessionaire, owner,
lessee, operator, or licensee, regardless of whether a fee is charged for use.
Nothing in this chapter will be construed as applying to any pool constructed
at a one- or two-family dwelling and maintained by an individual for the sole
use of the household or house guests.
   SEASONAL POOLS. Pools that are open less than seven months of the year.
   SEMI-PUBLIC POOLS. Any pool restricted for use by residents, members, or
registered guests that is intended to be used for swimming or bathing and is
operated solely for and in connection with:
      (1)   Hotels, motels, apartments, condominiums, bed and breakfast
facilities or similar facilities associated with lodging;
      (2)   Camps or mobile home parks; or
      (3)   Membership clubs, churches or associations.
      (4)   For clarification, school pools are excluded from this definition.
   SPA. A pool designed for recreational or therapeutic, or both, use, commonly
known as a hot tub or therapy pool, that is not drained, cleaned, and refilled
after each use. The term may include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Hydrojet circulation;
      (2)   Hot water;
      (3)   Cold water;
      (4)   Mineral baths;
      (5)   Air induction systems; or
      (6)   Any combination thereof.
   STATE HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Indiana State Department of Health.
   STOP WORK ORDER. A written order of the Health Officer to stop all work on a
project or construction of a swimming pool until the project is in compliance
with all provisions of this chapter.
   SUPERCHLORINATE. The practice of adding a sufficient amount of chlorine to
convert inorganic chloramines to a form that leaves the water.
SUPERCHLORINATION is referred to as breakpoint chlorination. Generally,
chlorine must be added to ten times the difference between the chlorine and the
total chlorine in the swimming pool water to superchlorinate and achieve
breakpoint chlorination.
   SWIMMING POOL. An artificial body of water used by individuals primarily for
the purposes of swimming, wading, diving, recreation, or instruction, and
includes all related equipment, bath houses, structures, areas, and enclosures
intended for the use of individuals using or operating the swimming pool.
SWIMMING POOLS shall include any structure, basin, chamber, or tank containing
water for swimming, wading, diving, recreation or instruction and shall include
swimming pools, pools, slide pools, spa pools, wave pools, wading pools, diving
pools, whirlpools, hot tubs, water slides and spas, and interactive fountains
(which includes spray grounds, wet decks, splash pads, spray pads, or spray
parks). SWIMMING POOLS shall not include the following:
      (1)   Residential swimming pools serving one- or two-family dwellings and
maintained by an individual for the sole use of the household and house guests;
      (2)   Portable hot tubs or other pools or spas operated for medical
treatment, physical therapy, or related purposes and that are drained and
cleaned between uses and filled prior to use; and
      (3)   Natural bathing areas such as streams, lakes, rivers, or man-made
lakes that are at least one acre in size and not represented as filtered or
disinfected.
   TEST KIT. A set of devices and reagents used to accurately monitor the
disinfectant residual, pH, alkalinity, calcium hardness, combined chlorine, and
any other chemical characteristic of the water as determined by the Health
Officer as important in the control of water quality as further specified by
410 IAC 6-2.1-30(i), as amended. Testing strips shall be prohibited from test
kits.
   TOTAL DISSOLVED SOLIDS. The total amount of dissolved matter in water (such
as calcium, magnesium, carbonate, bicarbonates, metallic compounds and the
like).
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.05 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   License requirement. No person shall operate a swimming pool in the
city without a valid license. A License shall be issued for a term of one year
commencing May 1 and expiring on April 30 of the subsequent year and shall be
renewed annually.
   (B)   Limitations. The PIC shall only be in charge of one pool for any given
facility except for facilities with more than one pool located on the same or
contiguous property. The licensee may be the PIC or must specify a person-in-
charge. At any time the swimming pool is not under the operation of the
specified PIC, the licensee shall find a new person in charge within one week.
If the new PIC is not specified within one week, the swimming pool shall close.
Licenses are not transferable and shall be conspicuously posted at every
swimming pool.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.06 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Application. Any pool owner wishing to operate a swimming pool in the
city shall make written application for a License to operate the swimming pool
on forms approved by the Health Department. The application shall include the
name and address of the owner, the location and type of proposed swimming pool,
dimensions and volume (gallons) of the pool(s), occupancy of the pool, the
signature of the owner, the names, addresses, and phone numbers of the PIC, the
days and hours of operation, and any other information deemed necessary by the
Health Officer. Application for licensure must be completed prior to all
requests for inspection.
   (B)   Education. Each applicant must have its PIC participate in a certified
pool operator's course or pass a test administered by the Health Department in
order to demonstrate the requisite knowledge of operations prior to issuance of
a license.
   (C)   Inspection. Each swimming pool for which a license is required under
the provisions of this chapter shall be inspected as frequently as deemed
appropriate by the Health Officer. Before approving an application for a
license from any swimming pool who previously had its license suspended or
revoked in accordance with §§
171.13 or
171.14, the Health Officer, or his/her designee shall inspect the swimming pool
to determine compliance with this chapter. For all renewal license
applications, the Health Officer may inspect the swimming pool before approving
such application.
   (D)   Fee. The applicant shall pay a fee as required by §
171.17.
   (E)   The Health Officer shall promptly issue a license if:
      (1)   The applicant satisfied the conditions of this section;
      (2)   All rules of the Health Department; and
      (3)   The swimming pool is in compliance with this chapter and is
designed, constructed, and equipped to be operated in a manner which protects
public health. Any permit issued by the Department between April 24, 2020 and
the effective date of this chapter is hereby void. A replacement permit shall
be issued by the Department, free of charge, to cover the duration of the 2020
season (through April 30, 2021).
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.07 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   A swimming pool which has not held a required license to operate for a
period of one year, or has had its license revoked by the Health Officer, shall
be required to apply for a new license before resuming operations and shall not
be issued a license to operate unless it complies with all of the requirements
of this chapter, including the construction, design, equipment, and sanitation
requirements applicable to a new swimming pool. Upon change of ownership of a
swimming pool, a new license to operate must be obtained from the Health
Department prior to operating under the new owner. A license will not be issued
to the new owner unless the swimming pool is in compliance with current codes
and regulations.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.08 SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   (A)   (1)   Bacteriological examination of all swimming pools must be
completed prior to opening and at least once per week as prescribed by 410 IAC
6-2.1. Sample results must be submitted in writing to the Health Department
within seven days of sample collection. Every swimming pool shall be equipped
with a chemical test kit. Tests for residual disinfectant and pH in the
swimming pool shall be conducted not less than two times per day and recorded
on forms approved by the Health Department. These tests shall be conducted:
         (a)   Prior to opening the pool and spa to swimmers; and
         (b)   One other time later in the day when the pool is in use by
swimmers.
      (20   Tests for alkalinity and cyanuric acid shall be conducted as
necessary to maintain acceptable chemical balance but not less than once per
week. Tests for combined chlorine shall be conducted at least twice per week.
   (B)   Spa water shall be tested for pH and disinfectant residuals daily
before the spa is open for use and at least two other times during the hours of
spa use for the following:
      (1)   Combined chlorine concentration, when chlorine is used, at least
twice a week; and
      (2)   Total alkalinity at least once a week.
   (C)   The Health Department recommends test for calcium hardness be
conducted at least once per month. Results shall be recorded on the approved
operating record forms. All such records shall be maintained for at least one
year and shall be available for examination by the Health Officer.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.09 ADDITION OF CHEMICALS.
   (A)   The water chemistry and bactericidal chemical concentrations shall be
maintained within the parameters promulgated by 410 IAC 6-2.1, as amended from
time to time. All pools, when open for use, shall be continuously and
automatically disinfected with a chemical that imparts an easily measured, free
residual. A free residual of the disinfectant chemical shall be maintained
throughout the pool at concentrations in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Required disinfectant levels.
CHLORINE                     BROMINE
POOL TYPE Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
CHLORINE                                                       BROMINE
POOL TYPE                                   Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
Wading pools                                3.0 ppm 7.0 ppm 4.0 ppm 10.0 ppm
Spa pools                                   2.0 ppm 7.0 ppm 4.0 ppm 10.0 ppm
Waterslide plunge pools                     2.0 ppm 7.0 ppm 3.0 ppm 10.0 ppm
Wave pools                                  2.0 ppm 7.0 ppm 3.0 ppm 10.0 ppm
Interactive water fountains (spray grounds,                       
wet decks, splash pads)                     2.0 ppm        4.0 ppm
All other pools                             1.0 ppm 7.0 ppm 2.0 ppm 10.0 ppm
   
      (2)   Required levels of other chemical parameters.
 
                 Minimum Maximum
pH                7.2     7.8
Cyanuric acid*    n/a     60 mg/L
Alkalinity        80 mg/L 120 ppm
Combined chlorine n/a     0.50 mg/L
* Cyanuric acid shall not be used in any indoor pool
 
   (B)   Where the concentrations of combined chlorine is greater than 0.50 mg/
L (ppm), the swimming pool shall be superchlorinated or otherwise treated in a
manner to oxidize and diminish the concentration of combined chlorine. No harsh
or irritating chemical shall be added manually and directly to the water of any
swimming pool except under emergency conditions. Should it be necessary to add
any such chemical in concentrated form directly into the water of any swimming
pool, use of the swimming pool shall be terminated until such time as the
chemical is dissolved completely in and is diffused thoroughly throughout the
swimming pool. The broadcasting or manual application of chemicals to maintain
a disinfectant residual or pH is prohibited except as may be required to
superchlorinate the swimming pool. Under no conditions may superchlorination or
manual adjustment of pH occur while the swimming pool is in use by swimmers. No
swimmers should be allowed in the pool for at least one hour after the manual
addition of chemicals.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.10 INSPECTIONS.
   The Health Officer may enter upon the swimming pool premises and other
property of a person at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspecting the
swimming pool, examining records maintained by the operator, and carrying out
the requirements of this chapter upon producing proper credentials and
identification. No person shall open or place in service any swimming pool
without first obtaining a license for such cooperation from the Health Officer.
An applicant for a new license shall notify the Health Officer, to request an
initial inspection, at least one week prior to the anticipated opening. The
Health Officer shall make the initial inspection within three working days of
the receipt of notice from the applicant but only after a minimum of one
satisfactory bacterial sample is received by the Health Department. A minimum
of one additional inspection will normally be completed during the swimming
pool's regular operating season but inspections may be performed as often as
necessary for the efficient and effective enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.11 REPORT OF INSPECTION.
   Whenever an inspection is made of a swimming pool, the findings shall be
recorded on an approved inspection report form. The inspection report form
shall summarize the violations of this chapter and shall set forth requirements
for correction. A copy of the completed inspection report form shall be
presented to the person(s) in charge of the swimming pool at the conclusion of
the inspection via e-mail or hand delivery. The complete inspection report form
constitutes an official notice of the inspection findings and an order of the
Health Officer to correct all violations found.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.12 CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   The completed inspection form shall specify a reasonable period of time for
the correction of the noted violations. Correction of all violations shall be
accomplished within the period specified in accordance with the following
provisions.
   (A)   If an imminent hazard is determined by the Health Officer to exist,
the swimming pool shall immediately close to all swimmers and guests until the
violation can be corrected. Operations shall not be resumed until authorized by
the Health Officer.
   (B)   A swimming pool shall be closed for any of the reasons provided by 410
IAC 6-2.1-43 or 410 IAC 6-2.1-30(j), all as amended from time to time.
   (C)   All other violations of this chapter shall be corrected in accordance
with the Fishers Swimming Pool Inspection Form and the following schedule:
      (1)   Water quality. Corrective action required to commence immediately
with compliance required within 24 hours.
      (2)   Water clarity. In accordance with 410 IAC 6-2.1-43(1)(c), the
swimming pool shall be closed for failure to meet the water clarity
requirements of section 410 IAC 6-2.1-31(a) or 410 IAC 6-2.1-42.1(b)(13).
      (3)   Disinfectant residual. In accordance with 410 IAC 6-2.1-30(c) and
410 IAC 6-2.1-43(1)(B), the swimming pool shall be cleared and kept free of
bathers until disinfectant residuals are within the acceptable range.
      (4)   Circulation and filtration. Compliance required within 30 days if
water quality is being maintained. If water quality cannot be maintained, the
Health Officer may order closure until repairs are completed. Moreover, the
swimming pool shall be immediately closed if the pump or filters are not
operational in accordance with 410 IAC 6-2.1-43(4).
      (5)   Tests and records. Corrective action required to commence
immediately with compliance required within ten days.
      (6)   Structures and fixtures. Compliance required within the number of
days specified by the Health Officer dependent upon severity, but with
compliance always required prior to renewal of the license.
      (7)   Safety. Corrective action required to commence immediately with
compliance required within the number of days specified by the Health Officer.
      (8)   Signs and enclosure. Compliance required prior to opening;
replacements required within 30 days.
      (9)   Cleanliness. Compliance required within ten days.
      (10)   License. License to be obtained and posted prior to opening; if
licensure cannot be demonstrated, then immediate closure is required until the
license is obtained.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.13 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Health Officer may, upon written notice without prior warning or
hearing, suspend any license to operate a swimming pool for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   In the opinion of the Health Officer, the operation constitutes an
imminent health hazard;
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his/her
duties;
      (3)   Failure to correct any specific violation on two or more
consecutive routine inspections; or
      (4)   Failure to comply with the correction schedule established by the
Health Officer.
   (B)   The license shall be promptly reinstated when it has been verified by
the Health Officer that the reason for suspension has been corrected.
Suspension shall be for a period not exceeding 30 days. Whenever the license to
operate a swimming pool is suspended, the licensee or the PIC shall be notified
in writing that the license is, upon serving of the notice, immediately
suspended. Opportunity for a hearing will be provided if a written request for
a hearing is filed, by the licensee or the PIC, with the Health Officer. A
hearing shall be afforded within 20 days of receipt of the request. If no
written request for hearing is filed within ten days, the suspension is
sustained. The Health Officer shall end the suspension upon request of the
licensee or PIC if the reason for the suspension no longer exists. If after 30
days the suspension is still in place, the Health Officer shall conduct a
hearing for license revocation.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.14 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Health Officer may, after providing opportunity for hearing,
revoke a license for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Repeated violations of this chapter found in consecutive
inspections;
      (2)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his/her
duties; or
      (3)   As a result of a license suspension which has exceeded 30 days.
   (B)   Before revocation, the Health Officer shall notify the licensee or the
PIC, in writing, of the reasons for which such license is subject to
revocation. The license shall be revoked at the end of ten days following
service of such notice unless a written request for a hearing is filed with the
Health Officer within the ten-day period. If no request for hearing is filed
within the ten-day period, the revocation of the license becomes final.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.15 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Any notice provided for in this chapter is properly served when it is
delivered to the licensee or the PIC, or when it is sent by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
licensee. A copy of the notice shall be filed in the records of the Health
Department.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.16 HEARINGS.
   (A)   The hearings provided for in this chapter shall be conducted by the
Health Officer at a time and place designated by the Health Officer. The Health
Officer shall make a final finding based upon the complete hearing record and
shall sustain, modify, or rescind any notice or order considered in the
hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be furnished to the
licensee, or to the PIC, by the Health Officer within ten days of the hearing,
if requested. The licensee and PIC shall immediately comply with an order or
decision of the Health Officer. Should the Health Officer be unable to conduct
a hearing or should he/she consider it in the best interest of the city to do
so, the Health Officer may, in his/her discretion, request the Board of Health
conduct the hearing.
   (B)   In the event that the licensee or his/her authorized representative
fails to attend any hearing, he/she shall be deemed to have accepted the
decision of the Health Officer.
   (C)   In the event that the licensee or the PIC fails to abide by the
hearing decision or written orders of the Health Officer, the Health Officer
may furnish written evidence of the violation to the to the City Attorney for
appropriate action against the licensee including enforcement action for
violation of the provision of this chapter. The Health Officer may also furnish
written evidence to the Hamilton County Prosecutor for prosecution for
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.17 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Application fees. Licensee fees shall be charged prior to the issuance
of a license in the city. The fees per each pool shall be as follows:
      (1)   Seasonal pools or spas: $125 for the first pool or spa; $75 for
each additional seasonal pool or spa located at the same facility;
      (2)   Annual pools or spas: $200 for the first pool or spa and $125 for
each additional annual pool or spa located at the same facility;
      (3)   Schools: Exempt;
      (4)   Plan review: $100.
   (B)   Renewal fees. Each year, the holder of a valid license may apply for
renewal. The fee for such renewal is the same as the applicable license fee
provided in division (A) above.
   (C)   Additional inspection fees. For re-inspection due to violations,
closures and revocations, an additional inspection fee in the amount of $50 per
pool/per inspection shall be paid by the operator. Schools are subject to this
fee.
   (D)   Operation without a license: $100 per day.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20; Am. Ord. 101121B, passed 11-15-21)
§ 171.18 LICENSE FEE PENALTY.
   Any person found to be operating a swimming pool without a valid license
shall be assessed a fine in the amount of $100 per day. The Health Officer may
not issue a license until the fines arising from this section are paid in full.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.19 PLAN REVIEW.
   Prior to the construction, rehabilitation, or alteration of any swimming
pool in the city, a plan review fee of $100 shall be paid to the Health
Department. The plans and specification sheets stamped with the State of
Indiana Plan Release shall also be submitted to the Health Officer for plan
review. The plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed layout,
arrangement, mechanical plans, construction materials of work areas, and the
type and model of proposed fixed and non-fixed equipment and facilities.
Failure to submit the appropriate plan review fee and construction plans prior
to beginning construction, rehabilitation, or alteration may result in a stop
work order.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 171.20 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   In the event that any provision of this chapter is ultimately
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to conflict with any provision
of 410 IAC 6-2.1 et. seq. or 675 IAC 20 et seq., then and in any such event,
the more restrictive provision shall govern.
   (B)   In the event that any provision of this chapter is ultimately
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be preempted by any state or
federal law or regulation, this chapter shall automatically be deemed amended
by eliminating the conflicting provision and incorporating in its place the
applicable provision of the preempting state or federal law or regulation.
   (C)   Each provision of this chapter shall be constructed as separate, to
the end that if any part of it shall be held invalid for any reason, the
remainder shall continue in full force and effect.
   (D)   Compliance with the requirements of this chapter does not obviate or
eliminate the necessity of complying with any other applicable federal, state,
or local laws and regulations affecting swimming pools.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
CHAPTER 172: RESIDENTIAL ON-SITE SEWAGE SYSTEMS
Section
   
172.01   Title
   
172.02   Authority
   
172.03   Adoption of regulations by reference
   
172.04   Definitions
   
172.05   Sewage disposal
   
172.06   Construction requirements of private sewage disposal systems
   
172.07   Construction permit
   
172.08   Notice of violation
   
172.09   Inspections
   
172.10   Maintenance and sampling
   
172.11   Economic hardship
   
172.12   Denial, suspension, revocation
 
   
172.99   Penalty
§ 172.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be referred to as the "Fishers On-Site Sewage Ordinance".
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 172.02 AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer, and the Health Officer's agents and representatives are
hereby authorized to issue permits, collect permit and incidental fees, perform
inspections, order or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
chapter, and are otherwise authorized to perform all actions necessary for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 172.03 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The regulations located at 410 IAC 6-8.3, as amended from time to time, and
promulgated by the Indiana State Department of Health are hereby incorporated
by reference.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 172.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Undefined terms
shall have the meaning prescribed to them by 410 IAC 6-8.3, as amended from
time to time. In addition to or to otherwise supplement or to conveniently
provide definitions for interpretation, this chapter shall include the
following definitions. All definitions set forth in 410 IAC 6-8.3, as amended
from time to time, from the Indiana State Department of Health are hereby
incorporated by reference.
   BOARD. The City of Fishers Board of Health.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls built or
used for the enclosure, shelter, protection or occupancy or persons, fixtures
or personal property, and from which there emanates any sewage.
   COMMERCIAL. Any building which is not a one or two-family dwelling.
   DEPARTMENT. The City of Fishers Health Department, and/or its employees.
   DWELLING.  Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the Department, or his/her authorized
representative.
   INSTALLER. Any person who constructs, installs, replaces, alters, modifies
or repairs any residential or commercial sewage disposal system subject to the
provisions of this chapter. In the event that the person is an association of
two or more people, then said association shall designate one individual who
shall be designated as the installer and responsible for compliance with all
provisions hereunder.
   LEGAL DRAIN. Any tile or drainage-way regulated by the Hamilton County
Surveyor.
   PERMIT. A certificate of a size and style approved by the Health Officer or
his/her designee.
   PERMITTEE. The person who is the owner of the real estate or his/her
authorized representative, who is responsible for the application of a
construction permit and who shall be responsible for the acceptance of notices
at the address listed on the permit applications.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sanitary sewer constructed, installed, maintained,
operated or owned by a municipality, sewage district or utility company. A
county legal drain, mutual drain or private drain installed for the sole
purpose of carrying surface water runoff and subsoil drainage shall not be
considered a public sewer under this definition.
   RESIDENTIAL. A building used or intended to be used as a one- or two-family
dwelling.
   SEWAGE. All water-carried waste derived from ordinary living processes. This
does include grey-water discharge.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 172.05 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   All rules and regulations of 410 IAC 6-8.3, as amended from time to
time, of the Indiana State Department of Health are hereby incorporated by
reference.
   (B)   Public/municipal sewer available. Whenever a public sewer is or
becomes available within 300 feet of a residential or commercial building, a
direct connection shall be made to said public sewer as defined under IC 36-9-
23-30(b), provided direct access is reasonably available via easement or other
appropriate means. All existing septic tanks, sewage pits, outhouses, privy
pits and similar sewage disposal systems or treatment facilities shall be
abandoned and filled in a safe and sanitary manner. Permittee shall have 90
days from the date that the public sewer becomes available to make a direct
connection to the public sewer and to abandon and fill in the existing sewage
disposal system.
   (C)   Public/municipal sewer not available. All residential and commercial
buildings which are not connected to a public sewer shall be connected to a
private sewage disposal system which shall comply with the standards set forth
herein.
   (D)   Construction of privy.  Sanitary vault privies constructed and
maintained pursuant to Bulletin SE-11 (1986) must be approved by the Health
Officer and maintained in accordance with this chapter and Indiana law.
   (E)   Correction of defects.  Should any defect exist or occur in any
private sewage disposal system or privy which would cause the sewage disposal
system or privy to fail to meet the requirements of this chapter, then the
defect shall be corrected by the owner/permittee pursuant to the time table
established by the Health Officer or his/her designee. Failure to correct the
defect within the time table established by the Health Officer or his/her
designee shall be considered a violation of this chapter and shall subject the
owner/permittee to the sanctions set forth in §
172.10, subject, however, to the provisions of §
172.09.
   (F)   Adaptation of residential system. Whenever there is any alteration of
the structure or significant change in the use or occupancy of a residential
building which would affect the functioning of the existing private sewage
disposal system, including the addition of a bedroom or bedroom equivalent,
then the system shall be modified, enlarged or replaced in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter. Plans for any such changes shall be submitted to
the Health Department.
   (G)   Adaptation of commercial system. Whenever there is any alteration of
the structure or significant change in the use or occupancy of a commercial
building which would affect the functioning of the existing private sewage
disposal system, including but not limited to the addition of bathrooms,
kitchens or other related water disposal mechanisms, then the system shall be
modified, enlarged or replaced in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter. Any such changes will require Department approval and/or waiver.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 172.06 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Indiana State Department of Health requirements. All rules and
regulations of 410 IAC 6-8.3 as amended from time to time, of the Indiana State
Department of Health are hereby incorporated by reference.
   (B)   Lot dimensions. Lots or tracts of real estate on which residential or
commercial sewage disposal systems are to be installed and which are rated
slight or moderate for septic tank absorption fields by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture Soil Conservation Service, shall contain a minimum of one acre or
43,560 square feet and suitable soils and topography to permit compliance with
this chapter.
   (C)   On-site evaluation. At least three borings from the proposed septic
disposal system location. One boring shall be done with a soil auger. The
second sample from the proposed septic disposal system location, and any
additional confirmation samples, may be taken with a push probe. Additional
borings shall be required if the original proposed septic area soils are
disturbed.
   (D)   Requirements for septic tanks. Residential tanks shall be of concrete
construction. Residential septic tanks shall have the following capacity in
gallons:
 
Number of Bedrooms Size of Tank (gallons)
2 or less          750
3                  1,000
4                  1,250
5                  1,500
5 or more          1,500 + 3 for each bedroom greater than 5
 
   (E)   Distribution boxes. All distribution boxes shall be of concrete
construction.
   (F)   Access openings. All septic tanks shall have at least one access
opening per tank (or per compartment in two compartment tanks) of at least 18
inches in diameter, with a riser that extends to ground level for inspection
and cleaning purposes. Such access opening shall be fitted with a safely
secured, child proof, gas tight cover.
   (G)   Abandoned septic tanks. Abandoned septic tanks must be pumped, can
have the top crushed in and shall be filled with sand or pea-gravel, as not to
hold water or shall be removed.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 172.07 CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   (A)   Construction permit required. An owner or permittee shall first obtain
a construction permit from the Department prior to the commencement of any
excavation, construction, modification or addition to any existing or new
private sewage disposal system. Except for a person working on his/her own
private sewage disposal system which serves as the dwelling in which he/she
resides, no person shall construct, install, replace, alter, modify, or repair
any private sewage disposal system unless that person has first registered as a
certified installer.
   (B)   Permit to be posted. No person shall perform any work on a private
sewage disposal system project unless a valid construction permit is first
obtained and is properly posted in a conspicuous place at or near the building
where the private sewage disposal system is to be constructed. The permit shall
be plainly visible from the public thoroughfare serving the building until the
project is completed.
   (C)   Application for permit. The application for such permit shall be
submitted to the Department on a form provided by the Department and shall be
supplemented by any building plans, specifications and other information deemed
necessary by the Department or as required by 410 IAC 6-8.3, as amended.
   (D)   Permit fees. Prior to the issuance of any permit, each owner/permittee
shall first tender to the Department, a fee or fees for each system being
constructed, modified, altered or repaired in accordance with the following
schedule:
Type of Permit Fee
Type of Permit                                Fee
Application fee                               $25
Violations                                    $500
Construction - new or replacement             $250
Construction - repair or alteration           $100
Construction - septic tank or perimeter drain $75
only
Construction - re-inspection                  $25
Construction - renewal/resubmit permit        $25
Abandonment - inspection                      $25
Well construction permit                      $125
Well pump replacement                         $35
Well water testing                            At rate set by contracted lab
 
   (E)   Term and renewal. A construction permit shall be valid for two years
from the date of issuance. If the permit is renewed, the permittee shall comply
with any changes in the rules, standards or requirements which may have come
into effect subsequent to the original date of issuance. The construction
permit is not transferable.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20; Am. Ord. 101121B, passed 11-15-21)
§ 172.08 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Whenever the Department determines that there has
been a violation of any provision of this chapter or the applicable rules and
regulations of the Indiana State Department of Health by an installer, the
Department shall give written notice, in person or by certified mail, of the
alleged violation to the installer. Such notice shall include the following:
      (1)   A statement of the alleged violation; and
      (2)   An order allowing a reasonable time for the performance of any act
required to correct the violation.
   (B)   Suspension or revocation. If the violation is not corrected within the
designated time, the Department may suspend or revoke the Installer's
registration subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   If the registration is suspended, the installer may be reinstated
by the Department upon correction of all violations.
      (2)   If the registration is revoked, the Department shall require, at a
minimum, that the installer:
         (a)   Pay registration fee; and
         (b)   Correct all outstanding violations to the satisfaction of the
Department prior to being re-registered.
   (C)   Not registered. Any person constructing, installing, replacing,
altering or repairing, any private sewage disposal system who is not registered
as an Installer shall be deemed to be in violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to all penalties set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 172.09 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Commencement of construction. Upon issuance of a construction Permit
under IC16-41 et seq. and this chapter, the permittee may commence installation
and construction of the private sewage disposal system. The Department may
inspect the work at any state of construction.
   (B)   Substantial completion. Upon substantial completion of the
installation, the permittee shall notify the Department that the work is ready
for inspection. No portion of the installation shall be covered until the
inspection is made.
      (1)   No portion of the installation shall be used and, when the system
serves a new building, no person shall be permitted to use the building or
buildings until the inspection has been completed and the system is found to be
in full compliance.
      (2)   The inspection shall be made within a reasonable time period after
the Department's receipt of notice that the system is ready for inspection.
   (C)   Abandoned tanks. Upon substantial completion of the work required for
abandonment of a septic tank, and prior to covering the tank, the owner/
permittee/installer shall notify the Department that the work is ready for
inspection and pay the inspection fee.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 172.10 MAINTENANCE AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   Sanitary condition mandatory. Every private sewage disposal system
will be constructed and maintained so that the effluent leaving the permittee's
system will be sanitary.
   (B)   Inspection and sampling. The Health Department will be permitted to
enter upon any property at any reasonable time to inspect and take samples from
a private sewage disposal system. If said test results should indicate a
residential or commercial sewage disposal system failure, said failure will
constitute a violation of IC 16-20 et seq.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 172.11 ECONOMIC HARDSHIP.
   In the event an owner/permittee is unable to comply with the provisions of §
172.05 due to the economic hardship that might be imposed, then the Health
Officer may, upon application and proof of inability to pay the cost of
compliance, extend the period within which said owner/permittee shall be
required to make the hook-up provided the owner/permittee has an existing
private sewage disposal system which is operating properly. No extension(s) may
exceed 12 months in length.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 172.12 DENIAL, SUSPENSION, REVOCATION.
   (A)   Denial and approval of permit.
      (1)   In the event the Department determines that the application for the
construction permit does not meet the standards set forth in this chapter, then
the Department shall be required to notify the permittee of such denial in
person and/or in writing, within 30 days of the original application, stating
the specific reasons for the denial of the permit.
      (2)   In the event the Department issues written directives regarding
corrective actions, then the permittee shall have a reasonable amount of time
to address and comply with the items set forth in the directives in order to be
able to obtain the construction permit.
   (B)   Suspension of permit/registration. The Department may order the
suspension of a construction permit or installer registration. The department
may order the suspension of a permit or registration for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Failure to meet any of the standards of any of the provisions of
this chapter or violations of any of provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Interference with Department personnel in the performance of his/
her duties. Interference shall be defined as the process of obstructing,
hampering or preventing the Department personnel in the performance of his/her
duties.
   (C)   Revocation of permit/registration. Any permit and/or registration
issued hereunder may be revoked by the Department as the result of the willful
or continued violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Immediate revocation. Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of
this chapter, whenever the Department finds insanitary or other conditions,
which, in its opinion constitute an imminent health hazard, the Department may,
without notice or hearing, issue and serve a written order on the owner/
permittee/installer requiring the immediate cessation of operation/
installation. Said written order shall state the existence of the imminent
health hazard and shall specify the corrective action to be taken. Such order
shall be effective immediately.
   (E)   Appeal.
      (1)   Any owner/permittee/installer aggrieved by any final order of the
Health Officer or designee is entitled to a review of the final order before
the Board, by filing a written request therefor with the Board within 15 days
of the Health Officer or designee's final order.
      (2)   The Board shall conduct a hearing on the appeal within 30 days of
the receipt of the appeal. The Board shall provide notice to the owner/
permittee/installer at least ten days prior to the hearing. The owner/
permittee/installer is entitled to present evidence and be represented by an
attorney at the hearing. Within ten days of the hearing, the Board will make
written findings of fact and enter its final order or determination of the
matter in writing in its permanent records and mail a copy of its findings and
final order or determination to the owner/permittee/installer.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 172.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the Health Officer or his/her
designee to enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any permit or registration
issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter shall be null and void.
A violation of an order issued by the Health Officer or designee or Board shall
be considered to be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Violations. Whenever the Health Officer or his/her designee determines
that any owner, permittee, installer or any other person, is in willful
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the Health Officer or his/
her designee shall furnish evidence of said willful violation to the attorney
for the Board or the Hamilton County Prosecutor who shall seek all appropriate
legal remedies against the person(s).
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each
violation. Each day of the existence of any violation of this chapter shall be
considered to be a separate offense.
   (D)   Injunction. The Health Officer or his/her designee may bring an action
for an injunction in the Circuit or Superior Court of Hamilton County, Indiana
to restrain any person from violating the provisions of this chapter, or to
cause such violation to be prevented, abated or removed.
   (E)   Expense. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be liable to the Department for the expense, loss or damage occasioned by
reason of such violation, including reasonable attorney's fees and court costs.
   (F)   Cumulative. The remedies provided in this section shall be cumulative,
and not exclusive, and shall be in addition to any other remedy provided by
law.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
CHAPTER 173: COMMUNICABLE DISEASE
Section
   173.01   Title
   
173.02   Authority
   173.03   Adoption of regulations by reference
   173.04   Definitions
   173.05   Report of communicable diseases
   173.06   Outbreaks
   173.07   Laboratory report of communicable diseases
   173.08   Disease control and prevention measures
   173.09   Enforcement
   173.10   Violations
§ 173.01 TITLE.
   This chapter and all ordinances supplemental or amendatory hereto shall be
known as the "Communicable Disease Regulations of the City of Fishers" and may
be cited as such and will be referred to herein as "this chapter".
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 173.02 AUTHORITY.
   The Health Officer, and the Health Officer's agents and representatives are
hereby authorized to issue permits, collect permit and incidental fees, perform
inspections, order or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
chapter, and are otherwise authorized to perform all actions necessary for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 173.03 ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The regulations of the Indiana State Department of Health as found in 410
IAC 1 et seq., as may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted and
incorporated by reference into this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 173.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or require a different meaning. Undefined terms
shall have the meaning prescribed to them by 410 IAC 1 et seq. In addition to
or to otherwise supplement or to conveniently provide definitions for
interpretation, this chapter shall include the following definitions.
   BOARD. The City of Fishers Board of Health.
   CARRIER. A person who harbors a specific infectious agent without
discernible clinical disease and serves as a potential source of infection.
   CASE. A person who harbors a communicable disease, usually in the presence
of discernible clinical disease, symptoms, or signs and may serve as a
potential source of infection. Specific case definitions will be as defined in
the most recent publication of Case Conditions Under Public Health
Surveillance, Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, Recommendations and
Reports from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and are
incorporated by reference into this rule.
   COMMUNICABLE DISEASE. An illness due to a specific infectious agent or its
toxic products that arises through transmission of that agent or its products
from an infected person, animal, arthropod, or inanimate reservoir to a
susceptible host, either directly or indirectly, through an intermediate plant
or animal host, vector, or the inanimate environment.
   CONTACT. A person or animal that has been in association with an infected
person or animal, or a contaminated environment that is likely to provide an
opportunity to acquire the infection.
   DEPARTMENT. The Fishers Health Department, and its employees.
   EMERGING INFECTIOUS DISEASES. Disease that may arise suddenly and/or
unexpectedly, including disease caused by antibiotic-resistant organisms.
   HEALTH CARE WORKER. A person who provides services whether as an individual
health care provider, volunteer, or student at or employee of a health care
facility.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Health Officer of the Health Department and his/her
authorized representatives.
   HIGH RISK SEXUAL CONDUCT.  Unprotected sex with an individual or a group of
individuals with multiple partners that increases risk of STI transmission or
unwanted pregnancy.
   LATENT TUBERCULOSIS INFECTION (LTBI). Infection with the tubercle bacillus
(the causative agent of tuberculosis) as evidenced by a positive tuberculin
skin test but having no evidence of active tuberculosis disease (i.e.,
clinical, radiological, and/or microbiological).
   MEDICAL LABORATORY. An entity that engages in the biological,
microbiological, serological, chemical, immunohematological,
radioimmunological, hematological, cytological, pathological, or other
examination of materials derived from the human body for the detection,
diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of any disease, infection, or impairment,
or the assessment of human health.
   OUTBREAK. Cases of disease occurring in a community, region, or particular
population at a rate clearly in excess of that which is normally expected.
   QUARANTINE. The restriction of the activities or confinement of well persons
or animals who have, or may have been exposed to a case of communicable disease
during its period of communicability to prevent disease transmission during the
incubation period, if infection should occur.
   RESTRICTION OF ACTIVITIES. Limitations placed on the activities of persons
with disease or infection to prevent transmission of communicable diseases to
other individuals.
   SERIOUS AND PRESENT DANGER TO HEALTH. One or more of the following:
      (1)   Repeated behavior by a carrier or case that has been demonstrated
epidemiologically to transmit, or evidences a careless disregard for the
transmission of the disease to others;
      (2)   A substantial likelihood that a carrier or case will repeatedly
transmit the disease to others as is evidenced by that individual's past
behavior, or by statements of the individual that are credible indicators of
the individual's intention;
      (3)   Affirmative misrepresentation by a carrier of his or her carrier
status prior to engaging in any behavior that has been epidemiologically
demonstrated to transmit the disease; or
      (4)   Failure or refusal to carry out the carrier's or case's duty to
warn under IC 16-41-7-1.
   SUSPECT CASE. A person whose medical history, signs, and symptoms suggest
that this person may be incubating or may be actively infected with some
communicable disease.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 173.05 REPORT OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASES.
   It shall be the duty of each physician licensed under IC 25-22.5; and
administrator of a hospital licensed under IC 16-21, or the administrator's
representative; to report all cases and suspected cases of the diseases listed
in 410 IAC 1-2.5-75, as amended to the Department in the manner prescribed by
410 IAC 1-2.5-75.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 173.06 OUTBREAKS.
   (A)   Outbreaks of any of the following shall be reported to the Department
immediately upon suspicion:
      (1)   Any disease required to be reported under this section;
      (2)   Diarrhea of the newborn (in hospitals or other institutions);
      (3)   Foodborne or waterborne diseases in addition to those specified by
name in this rule;
      (4)   Streptococcal illnesses;
      (5)   Conjunctivitis;
      (6)   Impetigo;
      (7)   Nosocomial disease within hospitals and health care facilities;
      (8)   Influenza-like illness;
      (9)   Viral meningitis;
      (10)   Unusual occurrence of disease;
      (11)   Any disease, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Anthrax;
         (b)   Plague;
         (c)   Tularemia;
         (d)   Brucella species;
         (e)   Smallpox;
         (f)   Botulism; or
         (g)   Multiple drug -resistant tuberculosis;
      (12)   Chemical illness that is considered:
         (a)   A bioterrorism threat;
         (b)   An importation; or
         (c)   A laboratory release;
      (13)   COVID-19, and all other outbreaks as further specified by 410 IAC
1-2.5-75, as amended.
   (B)   The Health Officer may declare an emergency to include mandatory
reporting of emerging infectious diseases.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 173.07 LABORATORY REPORT OF COMMUNICABLE DISEASE.
   Each director, or the director's representative, of a medical laboratory in
which examination of any specimen derived from the human body yields
microscopic, bacteriologic, immunologic, serologic, or other evidence of
infection by an of the organisms or agents listed in 410 IAC 1-2.5-76(d), as
amended, shall report the findings and any other epidemiologically necessary
information to the Department, all as further specified by 410 IAC 1 et seq.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 173.08 DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION MEASURES.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a report of a communicable disease case, it shall be
the duty of the Health Officer to institute reasonable measures for the
protection of other persons from infection by such afflicted person.
   (B)   The Health Officer may establish quarantine of well individuals and
may do what is reasonable and necessary for the prevention and suppression of
disease.
   (C)   The Health Officer may place restrictions upon the movement of
infected individuals (cases or carriers) as may be necessary to prevent the
spread of disease.
   (D)   No one except the Health Officer, or the State Health Commissioner,
shall terminate said quarantine or restriction of activities, and this shall
not be done until the diseased person has become non-infectious, as determined
through clinical examination and all necessary laboratory tests.
   (E)   The Health Officer may forbid public gatherings when considered
necessary to prevent and stop the spread of disease.
   (F)   (1)   The Health Officer shall make an attempt to seek cooperation of
cases, carriers, contacts, or suspect cases to implement the least restrictive,
but medically necessary, procedures to protect the public's health. Those
procedures may include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Participate in a designated education, counseling, or treatment
program;
         (b)   Undergo confirmatory testing;
         (c)   Undergo medically accepted tests, examinations or treatments
(preventive or therapeutic) that are consistent with standard medical practice
as necessary to make the case or carrier non-infectious;
         (d)   Notify or appear before designated health officials for
verification of disease status at periodic times;
         (e)   Cease and desist conduct that constitutes a health threat to
others;
         (f)   Notify or identify individuals who may have been exposed to the
communicable disease;
         (g)   Be monitored by an electronic monitoring device to prevent
activities that constitute a health threat to others;
         (h)   Live part-time or full-time in a supervised setting;
         (i)   Be confined to an appropriate hospital, home, apartment, or
other institutional facility or residential setting; or
         (j)   Comply with any combination of the remedies under this
subdivision considered appropriate by the Health Officer.
      (2)   In addition, the Health Officer will ensure that individuals
diagnosed with HIV/AIDS or hepatitis B are informed of their duty to warn or
cause to be warned by a third party past, present and future sexual and needle
sharing partners. The warning must include the individual's disease status and
the need to seek health care such as counseling and testing.
   (G)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to abridge the
powers of the Health Officer or State Health Commissioner to establish
quarantine or restriction of activities, as provided by law, for the purpose of
preventing the spread of communicable disease.
   (H)   In addition to the powers otherwise set forth in these sections, in
order to ascertain the source of infection and reduce the spread of the same,
the Health Officer shall have full power and authority to inspect, or cause to
be inspected any commercial building, structure or premises, or any part
thereof, which may be a site of high-risk sexual conduct. Any such location
shall hereinafter be referred to as a HAZARDOUS SITE. In the event the Health
Officer determines there exists a hazardous site, the Health Officer shall
declare the same a public health hazard and public health nuisance and order
either:
      (1)   Abatement thereof, which shall be enforced by mandatory or
prohibitory injunction in a court of competent jurisdiction; or
      (2)   The closure of the site until the hazard is eradicated.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 173.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. A violation of an order issued by the Health Officer shall be
considered to be a violation of this chapter and of Indiana law, when
applicable.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
§ 173.10 VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever the Health Officer determines that any entity subject to the
provisions of this chapter, is in willful violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter, in addition to any other remedy or penalty imposed by this
chapter, the Health Officer shall furnish evidence of said willful violation to
the City Attorney or Prosecuting Attorney of Hamilton County, Indiana who shall
seek all appropriate legal remedies against the person(s) violating the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20)
CHAPTER 174: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 175: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 176: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 177: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 178: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 179: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 180: MISCELLANEOUS FEES OF THE HEALTH DEPARTMENT
   In addition to the fees specifically provided throughout ths Title XVII, the
Health Department may charge fees, including applicable credit card service
fees not to exceed 4% of the total fee charged, for the following services,
unless otherwise prohibited by law.
   (A)   Schedule A: Vital Records Services.
Birth certificate          $15
Death certificate*         $15
Search fee (birth/death)   $15
Legitimation/correction    $25
Home birth registration    $25
Paternity affidavit        $35
Paternity affidavit (copy) $15
* This charge includes a charge for the coroner's continuing education fee of
$2.25 in accordance with IC 16-37-1-9.
 
   (B)   Schedule B: Personal Health Services.
Personal Health Services
Vaccine administration fee     $20 per vaccine
Immunizations                  110% of cost rounded to nearest $
Clinician visits               At Medicare rate
Travel vaccine consultation    $60 plus 110% cost of vaccine rounded to nearest
                               $
Nurse-only visit               $20
CHW delivered health education At Medicare rate
Phlebotomy                     At Medicare rate
Send-Out Lab Services
QFT                            At rate set by contracted lab
Other contracted lab services  At rate set by contracted lab
 
In-House Point-of-Care-Testing
Chronic disease testing (glucose and cholesterol) $0
TB skin test                                      $20
Pregnancy, HIV, Syphilis and HCV testing          $0
Blood lead testing                                $0
Rapid flu/COVID/RSV testing                       At Medicare rate
Environmental Testing
Air quality monitoring                            At cost
Lead testing (household items)                    $5 per item
*A hardship policy may be adopted by the Fishers Health Department for the
fees in Schedule B
 
   (C)   Schedule C: Private Water.
 
Well construction permit $125
Well pump replacement    $35
Well water testing       At rate set by contracted lab
 
   (D)   Schedule D: Health Education, Promotion, and Training.
 
Certified Pool Operator’s Program (includes materials)               $350
Certified Pool Operator’s Program Recertification (includes materials$350
Educator fee (paid courses only)                                       $30
Materials fee (paid courses only)                                      At cost
 
(Ord. 061520A, passed 7-20-20; Am. Ord. 101121B, passed 11-15-21; Am. Ord.
111824E, passed 11-18-24; Am. Ord. 042125E, passed 4-21-25)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
       
II.   CONTRACTS
      
III.   FRANCHISES
      
IV.   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD) DISTRICTS
      
V.   VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
VI.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
VII.   RESOLUTIONS
      
VIII.   INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date   Description
         Passed
         12-6-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southeast corner of the
12-6-71  71     west half of the southeast quarter of Sections 35 and 36, Township 18 North,
                Range 4 East.
12-6-71- 12-6-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southeast corner of the
A        71     west half of the southeast quarter of Sections 35 and 36, Township 18 North,
                Range 4 East.
1-7-74   1-7-74 Annexing certain territory beginning with Lot Number 1 and Lot Number 2 in
                Timberlane Estates.
6-3-74   6-3-74 Disannexing certain territory beginning with Lot Number 1 and Lot Number 2 in
                Timberlane Estates.
2-7-77   3-7-77 Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning with part of the south half of
                the northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
1-8-79B  1-8-79 Annexing a part of the northwest quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North,
                Range 4 East.
1-8-79C  1-8-79 Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southeast quarter of
                Section 25, Township 18 North, Range 4 East.
11-5-79  11-5-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the northeast corner of a
         79     tract of land described in Deed Record 305, page 775.
11-19-79 11-19- Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southeast corner of the
         79     northwest quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
1-7-80   1-7-80 Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the northeast corner of the
                southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 18 North, Range 4 East.
         1-21-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the intersection of the
1-21-80  80     east line of Salathiel Fisher’s first addition to Fishers Station, as per plat
                thereof, recorded in Deed Record 17, page 19.
1-19-81  1-19-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at a point on the north line
         81     of the northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
82283    8-22-  Annexing a strip of land 45 feet in width and off the south side of the
         83     centerline of 116th St.
         9-10-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the northeast corner of the
09-10-84 84     north half of the northeast quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 4
                East.
110685   12-18- Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southwest corner of the
         85     southeast quarter of Sections 1 and 12, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
         1-22-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning in the center of the I.P.& C.
12-18-85 86     Railroad on the line running east and west through the center of Section 31
                and running east 66 rods, 11 links.
020586   10-1-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at a point in the center line
         86     of 116th St. at the northeast corner of Section 2, Township 17, Range 4 East.
080686   10-16- Annexing certain territory beginning at the southwest quarter of the southeast
         86     quarter of Section 11, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
082086   9-30-  (1)Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southwest corner of
         86     the southwest quarter of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East.
              (2)Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southeast corner of
                the southeast quarter of Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East.
              (3)Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at a point on the west line
                of Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
                Annexing certain territory beginning at a point in the center of the
020487   5-6-87 Allisonville Rd. as said road is located and established in Hamilton County,
                said road being measured 885.57 feet south of the north line of said Section
                35.
061787A  9-2-87 Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at a point on the east line of
                the northeast quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
         11-18- Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southwest corner of the
110487   87     south half of the northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4
                East.
                Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning with all that part of the
110487A  12-2-  south half of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4 East lying west of the
         87     Indianapolis, Peru & Chicago Railroad, now the Nickel Plate Railroad, except a
                small tract of land in the southeast corner of said last described tract.
030288A  6-15-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southwest corner
         88     (Harrison Monuments) of Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East.
                Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning 661.32 feet south, 00 degrees
030288B  6-15-  25 minutes 45 seconds west (assumed bearing) of the northwest corner of the
         88     east half of the southwest quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 5
                East and on the west line thereof.
061788D  9-7-88 (1)Annexing certain territory beginning at the northeast corner of the
                northeast quarter of Section 7, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
              (2)Annexing certain territory beginning at the northeast corner of the
                northeast quarter of Section 7, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
              (3)Annexing certain territory beginning at the northeast corner of the
                southeast quarter of Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
              (4)Annexing certain territory beginning at the northeast corner of the east
                half of the northwest quarter of Section 7, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
08-03-88 1-4-89 Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southeast corner of the
                southeast quarter of Section 3, Township 17, Range 4 East.
         9-29-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at an aluminum monument found
080388A  88     at the northeast corner of the northeast quarter of Section 2, Township 17
                North, Range 4 East.
08-17-   9-29-  (1)Annexing certain territory beginning with all of the southeast quarter of
88A      88     Section 12, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
              (2)Annexing certain territory beginning with part of the southwest quarter of
                Section 12, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
              (3)Annexing certain territory beginning with part of the southwest quarter of
                Section 7, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
              (4)Annexing certain territory beginning with part of the southwest quarter of
                Section 12, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
              (5)Annexing certain territory beginning with part of the southwest quarter of
                Section 12, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
090788   10-19- Annexing certain territory beginning at the southwest corner of the southeast
         88     quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
090788A  10-19- Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at a point in the north line
         88     of the northeast quarter of Section 11, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
092988   11-2-  Annexing certain territory beginning at the southeast corner of the southwest
         88     quarter of Section 12, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
                (1)Annexing certain territory beginning with part of the south half of Section
010489   1-4-89 6 and part of the north half of Section 7, said halves being located in
                Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
              (2)Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning with part of the north half
                of Section 7, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
              (3)Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the northeast corner of
                the southeast quarter of Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
              (4)Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning with part of the east half
                of the northwest quarter of Section 7, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
         7-19-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at point 122.0 feet north of a
021589B  89     stone at the southeast corner of Lot Number 2 in the original plat of the
                town.
041989   5-17-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southeast corner of the
         89     southwest quarters of Section 7, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
050389   5-3-89 (1)Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the northeast corner of
                the southeast quarter of Section 3, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
              (2) Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southeast corner of
                the northeast corner of Section 3, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
060789   6-21-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southwest corner of the
         89     southwest quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
                Annexing certain contiguous territory described as the Hair Property, Fuller
062189   9-6-89 Property, Beaver Property, Eastridge-Haskett Property, Allen Property and
                Anderson Property.
070589-1 9-4-89 Annexing certain territory commonly known as 120 Shadow Lawn Drive.
070589-2 10-4-  Annexing certain territory commonly known as 125 Shadow Lawn Drive.
         89
070589-3 10-4-  Annexing certain territory commonly known as 112 Shadow Lawn Drive.
         89
070589-4 10-4-  Annexing certain territory commonly known as 11226 Allisonville Road.
         89
070589-5 10-4-  Annexing certain territory commonly known as 11120 Allisonville Road.
         89
092089B  11-1-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the northeast corner of the
         89     southeast quarter of Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
111589   12-20- Annexing a part of the west half of the northwest quarter of Section 8,
         90     Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
122089A  2-6-90 Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at a point on the southerly
                right of way line of Interstate 69.
         4-18-  Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southwest corner of the
040490   90     west half of the southeast quarter of Section 25, Township 18 North, Range 4
                East.
         5-16-  Annexing certain territory beginning at the west line of the southwest quarter
041890A  90     of Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East which is 1589.18 feet northerly
                of the southwest corner thereof.
051690   6-20-  Annexing part of the southwest quarter of Section 31, Township 18 North, Range
         90     5 East, containing 17.43 acres, more or less.
051690B  7-18-  Annexing certain property owned by Arzelle W. Reynolds and Arline Reynolds
         90     containing 47.171 acres.
071890   9-5-90 Annexing certain territory owned by Ivy Knoll Apartments Partnership,
                containing 57.428 acres.
100390   10-3-  Annexing certain territory owned by Christina M. Donavan, Lucille Manship,
         90     Martha A. VanStone and Mary E. Males.
120590E  1-23-  Annexing the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 11,
         91     Township 17 North, Range 4 East and containing 1.85 acres more or less.
120590F  12-5-  Annexing territory owned by Indiana Baptist Convention, Inc. containing 13.691
         90     acres.
022091   3-20-  Annexing lots 1 through 26 in Section 1 of the Tremont at Castleton
         91     Subdivision.
032091   6-19-  Annexing territory commencing at a point on the west line of Section 31,
         91     Township 18 North, Range 5 East.
060591A  6-19-  Annexing part of the northeast quarter of the southeast corner of the
         91     northeast quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
060591C  6-19-  Annexing territory owned by Charles R. Light and Kelley R. Light, containing
         91     0.443 acres.
090391   9-18-  Annexing territory owned by Lantern Road Associates Limited Partnership.
         91
110691A  11-20- Annexing territory owned by Gary and Jackie Runyon.
         91
100291   12-17- Annexing part of the southeast quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range
         91     4 East.
030492   1-18-  Annexing certain territory including part of the northeast quarter of Section
         92     10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
012292   1-22-  Annexing Lot 30 in the second section of Spring Dale Estates.
         92
121791A  1-22-  Annexing part of the southeast quarter of Section 36, Township 18 North, Range
         92     4 East.
060392   7-1-92 Annexing part of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East and Section 5,
                Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
040892   7-15-  Annexing part of Section 5, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
         92
070192   7-15-  Annexing two tracts of land in the northeast quarter of Section 1, Township 17
         92     north, Range 4 East.
080592   8-19-  Annexing part of the southeast quarter of Section 8, Township 17 North, Range
         92     5 East located in Fall Creek Township.
080592B  8-19-  Annexing part of the west half of the southeast quarter of Section 8, Township
         92     17 North, Range 5 East.
080592D  9-9-2  Annexing part of Sections 29, 30, 31 and 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East.
100792   11-4-  Annexing certain territory.
         92
110492D  12-28- Annexing 11 parcels of real estate, all in Section 10, Township 17 North,
         92     Range 4 East.
110492F  11-18- Annexing certain territory in Section 10, between East 106th Street and
         92     Allisonville Road.
110492H  12-28- Annexing two tracts of land in the northeast quarter of Section 10, Township
         92     17 North, Range 4 East.
120992   12-28- Annexing part of the southeast quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range
         92     4 East.
         2-17-  Annexing part of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 6
020393   93     and part of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 5,
                Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
030293   3-24-  Annexing territory owned by Christ’s Church at Geist.
         93
010693   5-5-93 Annexing Phase II of Hamilton Proper.
020393B  5-5-93 Annexing certain territory being the Sigmond property in the northeast quarter
                of Section 3.
040793A  5-26-  Annexing certain territory being the Blankenship property on lot 13 of the
         93     Circle Heights Addition in the southwest quarter of Section 31.
040793C  5-5-93 Annexing certain territory being the Archer property in southeast quarter of
                Section 32.
050593A  5-26-  Annexing certain territory being the Whitmire property in the northeast
         93     quarter of Section 8, west side of Mollenkopf Road.
         9-15-  (1)Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the northeast corner of
091593   93     the northwest quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, said
                territory containing 25.5 acres, more or less.
                (2)Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the northwest corner of
              the northwest quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, said
                territory containing 20.004 acres, more or less.
                (3)Annexing certain contiguous territory beginning at the southwest corner of
              Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, said territory containing 33.24
                acres, more or less.
              (4)Annexing part of the northwest quarter and part of the southwest quarter of
                Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
                Annexing a parcel of land beginning at the Northwest corner of the Northwest
120193   12-15- Quarter of Section 7, Township 17 North, Range 5 East, of the Second Principal
         93     Meridian, Delaware Township, Hamilton County with said parcel containing 81.02
                acres of land, more or less.
                (1)Annexing a parcel of land commencing at the Northeast corner of the
120193B  12-1-  Northeast quarter of Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, Hamilton
         93     County, Indiana, said territory containing 70,297 square feet of land, more or
                less.
                (2)Annexing a parcel of land beginning at the Northeast corner of the
              Northeast Quarter of Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, Hamilton
                County, Indiana, said territory containing 77 acres of land, more or less.
120193D  12-15- Annexing the West half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 30, Township 18
         93     North, Range 5 East, containing 20 acres, more or less.
                Annexing a parcel of land beginning at a point 8 rods west of the Southeast
120193E  12-1-  corner of the Southeast Quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 5
         93     East, and running thence North 20 rods, West 8 rods, South 20 rods, East 8
                rods to the place of beginning.
         12-15- Annexing a parcel of land commencing at the Southeast Corner of the Northeast
120193F  93     Quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 5 East; containing 44.15 acres
                more or less.
120193G  12-1-  (1)Annexing a tract of land commencing at the Southeast corner of said Section
         93     9, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, containing 136 acres more or less.
                (2)Annexing a tract of land commencing at a stone marking the Northwest corner
              of Section 10 Township, 17 North, Range 4 East, containing 16.89 acres more or
                less.
                (1)Annexing a parcel of land beginning at a stone, being the Southeast corner
120193H  12-1-  of the West Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
         93     Range 4 East, Delaware Township, Hamilton County, Indiana, containing 3.10
                acres more or less.
                (2)Annexing a parcel of land commencing at the Southwest corner of the
              Southeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, Delaware
                Township, containing 3.5 acres, more or less.
                (3)Annexing a parcel of land beginning at the Northwest corner of the
              Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
                Range 4 East, containing 6.20 acres, more or less.
                (4)Annexing a parcel of land commencing at a small stone found marking the
              Southeast corner of the East Half and part of the West Half of the Southwest
                Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, containing 2.563 acres
                more or less.
                (5)Annexing part of the East Half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 10,
              Township 17 North, Range 4 East, Delaware Township, commencing at a small
                stone found marking the Southeast corner of said East Half Quarter Section
                containing 20 acres more or less.
                (6)Annexing a part of the East Half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 10,
              Township 17 North, Range 4 East, Delaware Township, commencing at a small
                stone found marking the Southeast corner of said East Half Quarter Section
                containing 0.0195 acres more or less.
                (7)Annexing a part of the East Half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 10,
              Township 17 North, Range 4 East, Delaware Township, commencing at a small
                stone found marking the Southeast corner of said East Half Quarter Section
                containing 3.856 acres more or less.
                (8)Annexing a part of the West half of the Southeast Quarter and part of the
                East Half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4
              East of the second Principal Meridian in Hamilton County, Beginning at the
                Southeast corner of said Southwest Quarter, containing 5.41 acres, more or
                less.
                (9)Annexing part of the West half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 10,
              Township 17 North; Range 4 East of the Second Principal Meridian, commencing
                at the Southwest corner of said Southeast Quarter, containing 5.4683 acres,
                more or less.
                (10)Annexing a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
              Range 4 East, commencing at the Southwest corner of Said Southeast Quarter,
                containing 6.26 acres, more or less.
                (11)Annexing a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
              Range 4 East, commencing at the Southwest corner of said Southeast Quarter,
                containing 5.65 acres more or less.
                (12)Annexing a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
              Range 4 East, commencing at the Southwest corner of said Southeast Quarter,
                containing 5.65 acres more or less.
                (13)Annexing a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
              Range 4 East, commencing at the Southwest corner of said Southeast Quarter,
                containing 6.30 acres more or less.
                (14)Annexing a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
              Range 4 East, commencing at the Southwest corner of said Southeast Quarter,
                containing 4.37 acres more or less.
                (15)Annexing the existing entire width of the right-of-way of Allisonville
              Road in the Southwest Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East,
                commencing at the intersection of the South line of said Southwest Quarter
                section and the centerline of the right-of-way of Allisonville Road.
                Annexing a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 19, Township 18 North,
010694   1-19-  Range 5 East and part of the East half of Section 24, Township 18 North, Range
         94     4 East, beginning at the Southwest corner of said Northwest Quarter section
                (½-inch rebar over stone).
                Annexing a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 17 North,
020294   3-2-94 Range 5 East, also being a part of the first re-plat of a part of Hawthorn
                Hills;
                Also a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 4, and a part of the Southwest
                Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 4, Township 17 North, Range 5
              East, beginning at the Southwest corner of said Southwest Quarter and running
                north 00 degrees 00 minutes 18 seconds west and along the west line on and
                along the east line of the Southwest Quarter 535.70 feet;
                Also a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 8, Township 17 North, Range 5
              East, beginning at the Northeast corner of said Quarter Section and running
                South on and along the East line of said Quarter Section a distance of 16.50
                feet;
                Also a part of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast
              Quarter of Section 9, Township 17 North, Range 5 East commencing at the
                Northeast corner of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of the
                Northeast Quarter of Section 9, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
                Annexing a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 17 North,
020294B  3-2-94 Range 5 East, beginning at the Northeast corner of the Southeast Quarter of
                the Southeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
                Annexing a part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section
030294   3-16-  10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, commencing at the Northeast corner of the
         94     Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
                Range 4 East.
         4-20-  Annexing a part of the West Half of the southeast quarter of Section 25,
033094   94     Township 18 North, Range 4 East, commencing at the Southwest Corner of said
                quarter section.
033094G  4-20-  Annexing a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 31, Township 18 North,
         94     Range 5 East, commencing at the Northwest Corner of said quarter section.
033094I  4-20-  Annexing a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 31, Township 18 North,
         94     Range 5 East, beginning at the Northwest Corner of said quarter section.
050494D  6-8-94 Annexing a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 17 North,
                Range 5 East, beginning at a point on the East line of said quarter section.
050494   6-8-94 Annexing a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 17 North,
                Range 5 East, beginning at the Northwest quarter section.
072094   8-17-  Annexing a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North,
         94     Range 5 East, beginning at the southwest corner of said quarter section.
         1-25-  (1)Annexing a part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
090794   95     Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, beginning 642.9 feet south of the
                northeast corner of said quarter section.
                (2)Annexing a part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
              Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, commencing at the northwest
                corner of said quarter section.
         12-19- Annexing a part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section
120794   94     10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, commencing at the northeast corner of the
                northwest quarter of said quarter section.
121994C  12-19- Annexing certain territory being more fully described on Exhibit A attached to
         94     Ordinance 121994C.
         3-15-  Annexing a part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section
021595   95     10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, commencing at the northeast corner of the
                northwest quarter of said quarter section.
                Annexing a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 18
                North,Range 5 East, beginning at the southwest corner of the southwest
021595B  2-15-  quarter, containing 31.81 acres or more or less; and a part of the Southwest
         95     Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 5
                East, beginning 68 rods East of the Southwest Quarter of said quarter section,
                containing 13.85 acres more or less.
                Annexing certain territory generally bounded on the South by East 116th
                Street; on the North by I-69; on the East by Olio Road, and the Center Section
030195   8-3-95 lines of Section 26 and 35 Township 18 North Range 5 East; and on the West by
                Brook’s School Road, also Real Estate South of East 116th Street known as the
                Hamble property is contiguous to the town limits.
                Annexing a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 19 and a part of the
030195A  4-19-  Southwest Quarter and the Southeast Quarter of Section 20 and a part of the
         95     Northeast Quarter and the Northwest Quarter of Section 29 all in Township 18
                North, Range 5 East of the Second Principal Meridian.
                Annexing certain territory generally bounded on the North by East 141st
131595A  6-21-  Street, on the South by Fairlane Center Commercial Park, on the West by the
         95     Norfolk Southern Railroad track and on the East by Cumberland Road, consisting
                of a part of the Reynold’s Industrial Park is contiguous to the town limits.
                Annexing a part of the Southeast Quarter Southwest Quarter and the Northwest
051095   6-7-95 Quarter of Section 29, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township,
                commencing at the Southwest corner of the Southeast Quarter of said Section.
                Annexing the existing right-of-way, 40 feet by parallel lines off the entire
151095C  5-10-  West boundary of the Cumberland Ridge Subdivision, owned by the Hamilton
         95     County Commissioners and Kenneth R. and Connie S. Allen contiguous to the town
                limits.
                Annexing a part of the East Half of Section 24, Township 18 North, Range 4
                East in Hamilton County, beginning at the Northeast Corner of the Southeast
051095D  6-7-95 Quarter of said section; and part of the West half of the Northwest Quarter of
                Section 19, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, beginning at
                the Southwest Corner of said Northwest Quarter Section.
                Annexing that right-of-way for Interstate Highway 69 commencing at a point on
162195A  6-21-  the East line of Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, said point also
         95     being the intersection of the centerlines of Cumberland Road and Interstate
                Highway 69.
080995   8-23-  Annexing certain territory owned by Dr. Joseph Kunzer and contiguous to the
         95     town.
                Annexing certain territory generally bounded on the South by East 118th
                Street, on the North by East 126th Street, on the East by Olio Road and on the
090695B  9-6-95 West by the center section line of Section 35, Township 18 North, Range 5 East
                and contiguous to the town. This real estate is assigned to Town Council
                District 5.
         10-4-  Annexing certain territory which is a part of Section 2, Township 17 North,
090695   95     Range 4 East in Hamilton County. This real estate is assigned to Town Council
                District 2.
                Annexing certain territory generally located east of the intersection of
100495   10-18- Cumberland Road and 141st Street known as the Christian Life Assemblies of God
         95     property and contiguous to the town. This real estate is assigned to Town
                Council District 5.
         1-24-  Annexing territory generally located east of the intersection of Cumberland
122095   96     Road and 126th Street known as Mary Fulton property and assigning it to Town
                Council District 5.
         2-21-  Annexing territory generally located northwest of the intersection of Lantern
011096B  96     Road and East 106th Street known as the Lantern Road Development Co. property
                and assigning it to Town Council District 7.
         2-21-  Annexing territory generally located southwest of the intersection of Lantern
020796A  96     Road and East 106th Street known as the Kincaid property and assigning it to
                Town Council District 7.
         5-22-  Annexing territory generally located south and east of the intersection of
052296C  96     Cumberland Road and East 106th Street known as the Nichols property and
                assigning it to Town Council District 7.
                Disannexation of part of the east half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 34,
050196   5-1-96 Township 18 North, Range 5 East, in Fall Creek Township, Hamilton County,
                Indiana, containing 2.94 acres, more or less.
080796   8-19-  Annexing territory generally located south of East 126th Street and east of
         96     Olio Road known as the Hamilton Southeastern School District property.
080796B  8-19-  Amending Ord. 090391A annexing a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 7,
         96     Township 17 North, Range 5 East, Delaware Township, Hamilton County, Indiana.
090496   9-25-  Annexing territory generally located at 10090 Mollenkopf Road, known as the
         96     DeVore property.
092596B  10-23- Annexing territory generally located 10625 East 106th Street Road known as the
         96     Gerald W. Becker property.
         10-23- Annexing territory generally located north of East 116th Street and 1/4 mile
100996   96     east of Brooks School Road at approximately 13001 East 116th Street known as
                the Russell property.
020597A  3-5-97 Annexing 10300 East 121st Street to the town.
                Annexing part of the Northwest and Southwest Quarter of Section 28, Township
         4-16-  18 North, Range 5 East and part of the Northeast and Southeast Quarter of
031997   97     Section 29, Township 18 North, Range 5 East and commencing at the Northeast
                corner of the Southeast Quarter of Section 29 and containing 82.543 acres,
                more or less.
         6-25-  Annexing part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 7, Township 17 North, Range
060497B  97     5 East: Beginning at the Northwest corner of said quarter section and
                containing 16.070 acres.
100197   10-15- Annexing territory generally located at 10548 Mollenkopf Road known as the
         97     Johnson property.
         11-19- Annexing the Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 7, Township
100197B  97     17 North, Range 5 East in Delaware Township, containing 40 acres more or less
                excepting 10.045 acres as described therein.
110597A  12-10- Annexing territory generally located at and commonly known as the Krauter
         97     property.
111997   12-10- Annexing territory generally located at 10089 Allisonville Road known as the
         97     Allisonville Road Partners property.
         1-21-  Annexing part of the East half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 10,
010798B  98     Township 17 North, Range 5 East and beginning at the railroad spike at the
                Southeast corner, containing 4.84 acres more or less.
                Annexing part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 32,
         1-21-  Township 18 North, Range 5 East and beginning at a point on the north line,
010798F  98     containing 8.92 acres more or less. Also, annexing the established right-of-
                way of East 121st Street extending westerly from the center of Sand Creek
                1028.28 feet along the north line.
                Annexing part of the South half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 7,
                Township 17 North, Range 5 East and commencing at the Southeast corner,
                containing 4.68 acres more or less. Also annexing part of the South half of
010798J  1-21-  the Northeast Quarter commencing at the Southeast corner containing 0.23 acres
         98     more or less. Also annexing the established right-of-way of Cumberland Road
                extending northerly 535.08 feet from a point on the East line of the Northeast
                Quarter and 348.00 feet north of the Southeast corner of the Northeast Quarter
                to the Southeast corner of Bradford Knoll Subdivision.
                Annexing part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 20, Township 18 North, Range
                5 East and beginning at the Northwest corner. Also Annexing the Southeast
010798   2-4-98 Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 20, Township 18 North, Range 5
                East in Fall Creek Township and beginning 1344.0 feet East of the Southwest
                corner of the Northwest Quarter, containing 40.5 acres, more or less.
         2-18-  Annexing part of the Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 32,
020498B  98     Township 18 North, Range 5 East, located in Fall Creek Township and beginning
                at the Southwest corner, containing 11.977 acres, more or less.
                Also annexing the established right-of-way of East 121st Street on either side
              of the south line of the Southeast Quarter easterly from the Southwest corner
                of the Southeast Quarter.
                Annexing a part of the East Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 29,
030498   4-1-98 Township 18 North, Range 5 East, located in Fall Creek Township and commencing
                at the Northwest corner, containing 29.150 acres, more or less.
                Annexing part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 28,
              Township 18 North, Range 5 East located in Fall Creek Township and beginning
                at a railroad spike at the Northeast corner, containing 34.346 acres, more or
                less.
                Annexing part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 8
040198D  5-6-98 Township 17 North Range 5 East, Fall Creek Township and Lot 4 of Cumberland
                Ridge Subdivision.
                Annexing part of the Southwest Quarter and part of the Southeast Quarter of
                the Southwest Quarter of Section 36, Township 18 North, Range 5 East and
                commencing at the Southwest corner, containing 10.00 acres more or less. Also
040198F  5-6-98 annexing the established right-of-way of Olio Road extending northerly from a
                point approximately 677.63 feet north of the Southwest corner of the Southwest
                Quarter of Section 36, Township 17 North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township,
                660.15 feet.
         5-20-  Annexing part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 17 North, Range
040198   98     5 East in Fall Creek Township and commencing at the Northeast corner,
                containing 1.010 acres, more or less.
                Annexing part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 34,
         5-20-  Township 18 North, Range 5 East and commencing at the Southeast corner of the
040198B  98     Quarter Section. Also annexing the established right-of-way of East 116th
                Street extending westerly from a point 361.04 feet West of the Southwest
                Corner of the Southwest Quarter, 301.53 feet more or less.
         6-24-  Annexing part of the South Half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 36,
060398   98     Township 18 North, Range 5 East, in Fall Creek Township and commencing at the
                Southwest corner, containing 14.093 acres more or less.
090298   9-15-  Annexing part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range
         98     4 East, containing 2.533 acres more or less.
090298B  10-7-  Annexing part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 12, Township 27 North, Range
         98     4 East.
         10-7-  Annexing territory commonly referred to as the Steinmetz, Van Riper and Deal
100798   98     properties, generally located at approximately 11000 East 116th St. in Section
                33 of Fall Creek Township.
         10-21- Annexing territory generally located west and north of the intersection of
102198   98     Fall Creek Road and Bork’s School Road, and known as Lot #14 Lake View
                Addition and right-of-way for Fall Creek Road and Brook’s School Road.
102198A  10-21- Annexing territory generally located between Sections 1 and 4 of Covington
         98     Estates Subdivision.
         10-21- Annexing territory generally located on either side of East 131st St. east of
102198B  98     Promise Road between 11000 and approximately 18000 East 131st St. and known as
                the Sand Creek Middle School property.
102198C  10-21- Annexing territory generally located north and west of the intersection of
         98     Hoosier Rd. and East 111th St. and known as Sawgrass Section 4 property.
1021098E 10-21- Annexing territory generally located east of Cumberland Rd. and north of East
         98     141st St. and generally known as the Cumberland Place Development.
020399   4-7-99 Annexing territory commonly referred to as the Statzer property and generally
                located at E. 126th Street and Promise Road.
020399A  4-7-99 Annexing territory commonly referred to as the Calkins property, generally
                located at 12373 Hoosier Road.
040799A  5-5-99 Annexing territory generally located at the Northeast corner of East 116th
                Street and Ringer Road and generally known as the White/McCord Properties.
040799C  5-5-99 Annexing territory generally located at the Northwest corner of East 116th
                Street and Olio Road and generally known as the Shepler Property.
070699B  9-7-99 Annexing territory generally located West of Delaware Park, generally known as
                the Kincaid Property.
070699   9-20-  Annexing territory generally located at 9265 East 106th Street, generally
         99     known as the Brown Property.
R032000A 3-20-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of Williams Ridge Subdivision.
         00
120699   5-20-  Annexing 15 acres in the William H. Dye Subdivision (Lots 5, 6, and 7).
         00
032000B  6-19-  Annexing territory generally known as the Ostler Parcel.
         00
R061900B 6-19-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of Ostler Property (Apple Grove
         00     Subdivision).
         7-17-  Annexing territory located east of Lantern Road and adjacent to the north
030600   00     portion of Effingham Road and generally known as the Cottingham Northeast
                Subdivision.
R030600  7-17-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of Cottingham Northeast Subdivision.
         00
         10-2-  Annexing territory located east of Lantern Road and adjacent to the north
032000   00     portion of Effingham Road and generally known as the Cumberland Place Section
                Two.
R100200C 10-2-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of Cumberland Place Section 2
         00     Subdivision.
032000D  10-2-  Annexing 12 acres, more or less, known as Montgomery Village.
         00
R100200B 10-2-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of the Montgomery/Stratton proeprty.
         00
032000F  10-2-  Annexing 2.8 acres, more or less, known as the Delaware Township Trustee and
         00     Assessor Offices.
051500   1-8-01 Annexing 11.35 acres, more or less, known as the Jackson property.
081400A  1-8-01 Annexing 200 acres, more or less, known as the Bubenzer, Habegger & Olsen/
                Platinum properties.
091100A  1-8-01 Annexing 10 acres, more or less, known as the Sutton property.
091100C  1-8-01 Annexing property in the Northwest Quarter of Section 20, Township 18 North,
                Range 5 East, known as the Kraus property.
091100F  1-8-01 Annexing 25 acres, more or less, known as the Brookfield/Loma Logan Ltd.
                property.
101600   5-7-01 Annexing territory located east of Lantern Road and north of Cottingham
                Estates Subdivision containing 1.157 acres, more or less (Hunter property).
010801   5-7-01 Annexing 20 acres, more or less, known as the Cook property.
012201   7-9-01 Annexing 4 acres, more or less, known as the Daniels, Wallin & Cornett
                property.
012201B  5-7-01 Annexing property known as the 116th Street and Olio Road intersection right-
                of-way.
012201C  5-7-01 Annexing 21 acres, more or less, known as the Roudebush Hilltop Inc. property.
012201E  5-7-01 Annexing 4.95 acres, more or less, known as the Hamilton Hills Baptist Church
                property.
022101   6-18-  Annexing 39 acres, more or less, known as the Perkinson property.
         01
030501A  7-9-01 Annexing 10 acres, more or less, known as Geist Bay Estates, Section 4, Lots 1
                and 2.
050701   11-19- Annexing 21 acres, more or less, known as the Flynn and Zinkan property.
         01
050701B  9-17-  Annexing 127 acres, more or less, known as the O’Brien property.
         01
050701D  9-17-  Annexing 2.514 acres, more or less, known as the Kappes property.
         01
060401A  9-17-  Annexing 54 acres, more or less, known as the Republic Development property.
         01
060401C  9-17-  Annexing 101 acres, more or less, known as the Pryor property.
         01
070901   8-20-  Annexing 35 acres, more or less, known as the Coffey property.
         01
080601   10-15- Annexing 16.79 acres, more or less, known as the Olympia Partners/Crawford
         01     property.
080601B  10-15- Annexing 21 acres, more or less, known as the CJB Enterprises/Crawford
         01     property.
100101A  12-3-  Annexing 1.5 acres, more or less, known as the Alcala property.
         01
010702   3-4-02 Annexing 481 acres, more or less, known as the Crossman Communities property.
022502   4-1-02 Annexing certain property known as the Harling parcel.
031802   5-6-02 Annexing certain property know as the Fall Creek township parcel.
040102   6-17-  Annexing ten acres, more or less, known as the Billericay Park.
         02
050602   6-17-  Annexing one acre, more or less, known as the Thistlelthwaite property.
         02
070102   9-11-  Annexing one acre, more or less, known as the Clark property.
         02
080502D  9-16-  Annexing 5 acres, more or less, known as the Skoog property.
         02
080502   10-7-  Annexing 48 acres, more or less, known as the Glover property.
         02
080502B  10-7-  Annexing 135 acres, more or less, known as the Carter property.
         02
090302   10-21- Annexing .46 acres, more or less, known as the Verble property.
         02
090302B  10-21- Annexing .39 acres, more or less, known as the Verble property.
         02
090302D  10-21- Annexing .62 acres, more or less, known as the Verble property.
         02
090302F  10-21- Annexing 1.24 acres, more or less, known as the Verble property.
         02
090302H  10-21- Annexing 7.7 acres, more or less, known as the Indianapolis Water Company.
         02
090302J  10-21- Annexing 12 acres, more or less, known as the Indianapolis Water Company.
         02
090302L  10-21- Annexing 8.2 acres, more or less, known as the Indianapolis Water Company.
         02
090302N  10-21- Annexing 3.6 acres, more or less, known as the Indianapolis Water Company.
         02
090302P  10-21- Annexing 1.8 acres, more or less, known as the Indianapolis Water Company.
         02
090302R  10-21- Annexing 1.6 acres, more or less, known as the Indianapolis Water Company.
         02
090302T  10-21- Annexing 18 acres, more or less, known as the Cranor Property.
         02
090302V  10-21- Annexing 3 acres, more or less, known as the Weisenauer property.
         02
100702   11-20- Annexing 7 acres, more or less, known as the Graul property.
         02
120202   1-21-  Annexing 20 acres, more or less, known as the Glover property.
         03
021803F  4-7-03 Annexing 26 acres, more or less, known as the Avalon II property.
021803D  5-5-03 Annexing 130 acres, more or less, known as the Eller Road Schools property.
021803   6-2-03 Annexing 15 acres, more or less, known as the Lehman property.
021803B  6-2-03 Annexing 25 acres, more or less, known as the Beitman property.
031703   7-7-03 Annexing 15 acres, more or less, known as Koehler/Crawfordsville Partners
                property.
051903E  7-7-03 Annexing 1.78 acres, more or less, known as the Pulte Homes of Indiana, LLC
                property.
042103   9-2-03 Annexing 27 acres, more or less, known as the Decker property.
061603   10-6-  Annexing 5.5 acres, more or less, known as the Sandcreek Properties, LLC
         03     (Harvey/Burton) property.
072103   11-17- Annexing 31.5 acres, more or less, known as the Burk property.
         03
072103B  11-17- Annexing 26 acres, more or less, known as the Burk property.
         03
072103D  11-17- Annexing 39 acres, more or less, known as the Vail’s County Line Farms and
         03     Colonial Hill Farms property.
072103F  11-17- Annexing 70 acres, more or less, known as the Grant property.
         03
072103H  11-17- Annexing 137 acres, more or less, known as the Wickliff, Petty and 96th Street
         03     Properties, LLC property.
072103J  11-17- Annexing 124 acres, more or less, known as the Vail’s County Line Farms,
         03     Saindon, Petty and Precedent Residential Development, Inc. properties.
072103L  11-17- Annexing 18 acres, more or less, known as the Olio Road properties, Inc.
         03     property.
072103N  11-17- Annexing 37 acres, more or less, known as the 96th Street properties, LLC
         03     property.
072103P  11-17- Annexing 47 acres, more or less, known as the Smith, Cabada (Haver) and Macs
         03     Landing, LLC properties.
080403   12-1-  Annexing 25 acres, more or less, known as the Cedar Run Investments, LLC
         03     property.
081803   12-1-  Annexing 30 acres, more or less, known as the Shamrock Builders, Inc property.
         03
081803B  12-1-  Annexing 2.82 acres, more or less, known as the Hmong Hope Church property.
         03
051903   1-5-04 Annexing 9.45 acres, more or less, known as the Fuqua property.
051903A  1-5-04 Annexing 65.65 acres, more or less, known as the Fuqua property.
051903B  1-5-04 Annexing 80 acres, more or less, known as the CTMB Associates.
091503   1-5-04 Annexing .20 acres, more or less, known as the West 86th Street, LLC property.
100603   1-20-  Annexing 1.57 acres, more or less, known as the Caudell and Betram properties.
         04
102003   3-2-04 Annexing 3 acres, more or less, known as the Hamilton Proper, LLC property.
111703B  3-2-04 Annexing 0.83 acres, more or less, known as the Eldridge property.
120103B  3-15-  Annexing 2 acres, more or less, known as the Sunbeam Development property.
         04
120103D  3-15-  Annexing 7 acres, more or less, known as the Dean property.
         04
121503   4-5-04 Annexing 7.25 acres, more or less, known as the Huber property.
121503B  4-5-04 Annexing 114 acres, more or less, known as the Brooks/Centex property.
012004   5-17-  Annexing 15 acres, more or less, known as the Crossroads Community Church
         04     property.
012004D  5-17-  Annexing 1.335 acres, more or less, known as the Faultless property (Part A).
         04
012004Da 5-17-  Annexing 1.350 acres, more or less, known as the Faultless property (Part B).
         04
012004Db 5-17-  Annexing 1.350 acres, more or less, known as the Faultless property (Part C).
         04
012004Dc 5-17-  Annexing 0.297 acres, more or less, known as the Faultless property (Part D).
         04
012004F  5-17-  Annexing 3.5 acres, more or less, known as the Easley property.
         04
012004H  6-7-04 Annexing 2.74 acres, more or less, known as the Brooks property.
021604   6-7-04 Annexing 203 acres, more or less, known as the Precedent Development property.
021604B  6-7-04 Annexing 13.546 acres, more or less, known as the Vanstone/Donovan Trusts
                (Paul Lu Acres) property.
031504   8-16-  Annexing 78 acres, more or less, known as the Johnson and Wende property.
         04
051704   9-20-  Annexing 16.87 acres, more or less, known as the Shonkwiler property.
         04
070704   11-8-  Annexing 3 acres, more or less, known as the Lee (Cornerstone Companies)
         04     property.
070704B  11-8-  Annexing 20 acres, more or less, known as the Kraft property.
         04
080204   12-6-  Annexing 18.7 acres, more or less, known as the Rollison property.
         04
101804   2-7-05 Annexing 9.99 acres, more or less, known as the Mt. Zion Ministries property.
101804B  2-7-05 Annexing 4.75 acres, known as the Cornett (GBC) property.
081604   2-21-  Annexing a portion of Geist Reservoir.
         05
081604A  2-21-  Annexing a portion of Geist Reservoir.
         05
100404   2-21-  Annexing a portion of Geist Reservoir.
         05
100404A  2-21-  Annexing a portion of Geist Reservoir.
         05
100404B  2-21-  Annexing 3.2 acres, more or less, known as the Dodd property.
         05
112204D  4-4-05 Annexing a portion of Geist Reservoir.
112204E  4-4-05 Annexing a portion of Geist Reservoir.
120604   4-4-05 Annexing 3.4 acres, more or less, known as the Clinton property.
112204A  4-18-  Annexing 10.2 acres, more or less, known as the Gatewood property.
         05
010305   5-16-  Annexing 0.5 acres, more or less, known as the Walker property.
         05
010305B  5-16-  Annexing 19.75 acres, more or less, known as the Milligan (M/I Homes).
         05
022105B  8-1-05 Annexing 4.73 acres, more or less, known as the Banister property.
030705   8-1-05 Annexing 1.7 acres, more or less, known as the Butler property.
030705B  8-1-05 Annexing 8.93 acres, more or less, known as the Bertram and Clarke property.
040405B  8-1-05 Annexing 0.34 acres, more or less, known as the Robson property.
040405   11-7-  Annexing 5 acres, more or less, known as the Detrude Enterprises property.
         05
062005   11-7-  Annexing 7.135 acres, more or less, known as the Palladium Group property.
         05
062005A  11-7-  Annexing 2.156 acres, more or less, known as the Anderson property.
         05
062005F  11-21- Annexing contiguous territory by voluntary petition, 12764 Promise Road.
         05
062005G  11-21- Annexing contiguous territory by voluntary petition, 12732 Promise Road.
         05
100305   2-6-06 Annexing 5.1 acres, more or less, known as the McMichael property.
100305A  2-6-06 Annexing 3 acres, more or less, known as the Fishers Church of Christ
                property.
100305B  2-6-06 Annexing 10.7 acres, more or less, known as the Bayview Development property.
100305C  2-6-06 Annexing 15 acres, more or less, known as the Allen property.
010306   5-15-  Annexing 57.5 acres, more or less, known as the Groover (Logan Limited) (Real
         06     Estate).
                Annexing 222 acres, more or less, known as the Roman Catholic Diocese,
041706A  6-5-06 Platinum Properties (DBA) Fishers East, LLC, Hollinger and Brown properties
                (Pulte Phase 1).
                Annexing 589 acres, more or less, known as Platinum Properties (DBA) Fishers
041706B  6-5-06 East, LLC Brown, Valenti Held Developer, Inc., Hollinger, Pulte Homes, Joseph
                K. Underwood, Douglas J. Underwood, Harrington, Kurt D. Underwood and
                Christopher D. Underwood properties (Pulte Phase 2).
041706C  6-5-06 Annexing 204 acres, more or less, known as the Douglas and Marianne Underwood
                and Joseph K. Underwood properties (Pulte Phase 3).
060506   8-7-06 Annexing 160 acres, more or less, known as Estridge Development and Anderson
                properties.
061906   8-7-06 Annexing 141.5 acres, more or less, known as the Reserve at Steeplechase and
                Whelchel properties.
080706   10-2-  Annexing 125.58 acres, more or less, known as the Davis Homes property.
         06
080706A  10-2-  Annexing 1.9 acres, more or less, known as the Town of Fishers property at
         06     116th Street and Municipal Drive.
100206   11-20- Annexing 1.2 acres, more or less, known as the 126th Street properties.
         06
100206A  11-11- Annexing 4 acres, more or less, known as the Hoeft property.
         06
120406   3-5-07 Annexing 2.7 acres, more or less, known as the Muller property.
021907   4-16-  Annexing 11.972 acres, more or less, known as the Interstate Holdings, LLC
         07     property.
021907A  4-16-  Annexing 12.113 acres, more or less, known as the Interstate Holdings, LLC
         07     property.
021907C  4-16-  Annexing 26.48 acres, more or less, known as the Villages at Geist (Fishers
         07     Property Group, LLC and David Rump properties.)
030507   5-9-07 Annexing 2.53 acres, more or less, known as the Black Diamond-North, LLC
                property.
050907   6-18-  Annexing .5 acres, more or less, known as the Neeb property.
         07
050907A  6-18-  Annexing 1.44 acres, more or less, known as the St. Vincent Medical Center
         07     property.
082007   10-01- Annexing 8.62 acres, more or less, known as the Thompson Thrift Development.
         07
101507   11-19- Annexing .35 acres, more or less, known as the Wicker property.
         07
101507A  11-19- Annexing .66 acres, more or less, known as the Meredith property.
         07
090407A  1-7-08 Annexing 76.738 acres, more or less.
091707B  1-22-  Annexing a portion of Geist Reservoir.
         08
091707C  1-22-  Annexing a portion of Geist Reservoir.
         08
091707D  1-22-  Annexing a portion of Geist Reservoir.
         08
100407   4-7-08 Annexing territory known as the Geist Cooperative Annexation.
050708   7-7-08 Annexing 2.1 acres more or less known as the Delaware Township Trustees
                Property.
061608D  8-4-08 Annexing 1.3 acres more or less known as the Hamblen Property.
070708   8-18-  Annexing 1.77 acres more or less known as the St. Louis de Monfort East
         08     Property.
070708A  8-18-  Annexing 2.75 acres more or less known as the Fishers High School 131st Street
         08     Property.
070708B  8-18-  Annexing 2.8 acres more or less known as the Fishers High School Promise Road
         08     Property.
070708C  8-18-  Annexing 1 acre more or less known as the Methodist Church Lions Club
         08     Property.
070708D  8-18-  Annexing real estate known as the Methodist Church Parsonage Property.
         08
070708E  8-18-  Annexing 1 acre more or less known as the Masonic Lodge Property.
         08
070708F  8-18-  Annexing 3.1 acre more or less known as the Olio 238 Partners, LLC.
         08
091508   11-5-  Annexing 92.24 acres more or less known as the Cottingham Estates subdivision.
         08
091508A  10-20- Annexing 40.45 acres more or less known as the Rhodehamel property.
         08
091508B  10-20- Annexing 109.19 acres more or less known as the Crooks Investments, LLC
         08     property.
102008A  11-17- Annexing 32.37 acres more or less, known as Crooks Investments, LLC II
         08     property.
102008B  11-17- Annexing 53 acres more or less, known as Platinum Properties/Fishers East, LLC
         08     property.
020209   4-6-09 Annexing 3.91 acres more or less, known as the M.F. Gorski Associates (Sand
                Creek Commons) property.
061509   7-20-  Annexing 19.801 acres more or less, generally known as the Bayetakos property.
         09
061509A  7-20-  Annexing 2.56 acres more or less, generally known as the Wallace property
         09     (Lionshead, Lots 1 & 2).
031510   5-5-10 Annexing 2 acres more or less, generally known as the Erickson/Hannon
                property.
041210A  6-7-10 Annexing 0.92 acres more or less, known as the HSE Cumberland Campus School
                Building Corp. property.
041210B  6-7-10 Annexing 30.13 acres more or less, known as the Ares Properties, LLC property.
041210C  6-7-10 Annexing 20 acres more or less, known as the HSE Cumberland Campus School
                Building Corp. property.
041210D  6-7-10 Annexing 162.5 acres more or less, known as the Cyntheanne Park area
                properties.
041210E  6-7-10 Annexing 29.74 acres more or less, known as the Conner Prairie Foundation,
                Inc. property.
051710   6-21-  Annexing 57.2 acres more or less, known as the Barrington Estates properties.
         10
051710A  6-21-  Annexing 21.2 acres more or less, known as the Eaton properties.
         10
         10-18- Annexing 27.11 acres more or less, known as the Littleton Partners LLC,
090710   10     Cyntheanne Road at 238 LLP and Lahr properties at corner of State Rd 338 and
                Cyntheanne Road (Fall Creek Marketplace) property.
032111A  3-22-  Annexing 0.46 acres more or less, known as the Weaver/Spannuth Cemetery.
         11
030711A  7-22-  Annexing 3.45 acres more or less, known as the Duke Energy property.
         11
062011D  9-19-  Annexing .34 acre more or less, known as the Meyers property.
         11
072211   9-19-  Annexing 2.15 acres more or less, known as the Sollenberger Partners, LLC
         11     property.
121911A  2-20-  Annexing approximately three (2.99) acres more or less, known as the Lenity/
         12     GSA Investment Company, Inc. Phase 1 property.
121911B  2-20-  Annexing approximately 13 (12.91) acres more or less, known as the Lenity/GSA
         12     Investment Company, Inc. Phase 2 property.
121911C  4-16-  Annexing approximately 87.14 acres, known as the Barrington Estates Phase 2
         12     property.
041612   6-18-  Annexing approximately .88 acres known as the Ward property.
         12
110712   12-17- Annexing approximately 16.44 acres known as the St. George Orthodox Church
         12     property.
040113A  6-17-  Annexing approximately 95.85 acres known as the Poer property.
         13
021714A  4-7-14 Annexing approximately 60 acres known as the Cyntheanne Park South property.
031714   5-7-14 Annexing approximately three and one-half acres known as the Johnson property.
060214   7-4-14 Annexing approximately 3.27 acres known as the Comer property.
090214   10-6-  Annexing approximately 8 acres known as Heritage Park Subdivision.
         14
091514   10-20- Annexing approximately 67.7 acres known as Bridger Pines
         14
012015   2-2-15 Annexing approximately 6.80 acres known as Taylor Woods and North Shore Woods
                properties (Kroger).
042015   5-18-  Annexing approximately 6.69 acres known as the Mid-State Truck Equipment
         15     property.
042015A  5-18-  Annexing approximately 20.98 acres known as Granite Ridge.
         15
061515A  7-22-  Annexing approximately 22.45 acres generally known as the Reserve at Lantern
         15     annexation.
061515B  7-22-  Annexing approximately 66.66 acres generally known as the Whelchel Springs
         15     annexation.
092115A  11-16- Annexing approximately 20 acres generally known as the Grace Community Church
         15     annexation.
101915A  11-16- Annexing approximately 81 acres generally known as the Whelchel Springs (Part
         15     II) annexation.
051616B  6-20-  Annexing approximately 3.6 acres generally known as the Russel’s Subdivision
         16     Lots 3-6 annexation.
0111717B 2-20-  Annexing approximately 4.3 acres located at the Spring Dale Estates.
         17
022017B  3-20-  Annexing approximately 18 acres located at 20 lots known as Spring Dale
         17     Estates.
032017C  3-20-  Annexing approximately 35 acres generally located at the NW corner of 126th
         17     Street and Cyntheanne Road known as Legacy at Hunters Run.
032017C  4-17-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Legacy at Hunters Run.
         17
R041717  4-17-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property at Legacy at Hunters
         17     Run.
041717A  5-15-  Annexing certain real estate to the city described as 7.9 acres and generally
         17     known as the Brad Smith Annexation.
041717D  5-15-  Annexing certain real estate containing approximately 43.67 acres and
         17     generally known as Preserve at Bridger Pines.
R051517A 5-15-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property known as the Preserve at
         17     Bridger Pines.
R051517B 5-15-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of the Brad Smith property,
         17     contiguous to the city.
R051517D 5-15-  Approving a revised project agreement with Thompson Thrift Development, Inc.
         17
061917   7-17-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 3.09 acres, generally
         17     known as the Culp Family Property Annexation.
061917A  7-17-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 2.00 acres, generally
         17     known as the Geist Estates Lot 1 Annexation.
061917B  7-17-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 2.00 acres, generally
         17     known as the Geist Estates Lot 2 Annexation.
071717B  8-21-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 0.33 acres, generally
         17     known as the Carolyn Hooper Annexation.
071717J  8-21-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 49.6 acres, generally
         17     known as the Hamilton Southeastern School - Cyntheanne Road Annexation.
R112017H 11-20- Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city.
         17
101617A  11-20- Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 21 acres located
         17     outside but contiguous to the city.
R011618A 1-16-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city.
         18
R011618B 1-16-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city.
         18
121817C  1-16-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately two acres located
         18     outside but contiguous to the city.
112017E  1-16-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 37.5 acres located
         18     outside but contiguous to the city.
031918B  4-16-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 39.66 acres,
         18     generally to be known as the 113th & Florida City Park Property Annexation.
R041618A 4-16-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of the 113th & Florida Park
         18     Property.
041618   5-21-  Annexation of 11991 Florida Road.
         18
041618A  5-21-  Annexation of 11070 and 11020 East 126th St. Fishers, IN.
         18
R052118G 5-21-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of 11991 Florida Road.
         18
R052118H 5-21-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of 11070 and 11020 East 126th St.
         18     Fishers, IN.
071618E  7-16-  Annexation of 9545 E 106th Street, Fishers, IN.
         18
071618C  7-16-  Annexation of 0 E 113th Street, Fortville, IN.
         18
R071618C 7-16-  Adopting fiscal plan for annexation of Geist Manor property.
         18
R082018E 8-20-  Adopting fiscal plan for annexation of Furbee property.
         18
102218D  11-19- Annexation of 7877 E. 106th Street, Fishers, IN.
         18
102218E  11-19- Annexation of 9712 E. 116th Street, Fishers, IN.
         18
102218F  11-19- Annexation of 15040 E. 126th Street and 15050 E. 126th Street, Fishers, IN.
         18
R111918  11-19- Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of 7877 E. 106th Street, Fishers,
         18     IN.
R111918A 11-19- Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of 9712 E. 116th Street, Fishers,
         18     IN.
R111918B 11-19- Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of 15040 E. 126th Street, and 15050
         18     E. 126th Street, Fishers, IN.
041519   5-20-  Annexing certain real estate of approximately 19.81 acres located outside of
         19     but contiguous to the city.
041519A  5-20-  Annexing certain real estate of approximately 7.80 acres located outside of
         19     but contiguous to the city.
R052019  5-20-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexation of Gurdwara Jot Amrit Parkash property.
         19
R052019A 5-20-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexation of College Park Church property.
         19
R052019  5-20-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexation of Gurdwara Jot Amrit Parkash property.
         19
R052019A 5-20-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexation of College Park Church property.
         19
052019   6-17-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 0.78 acres outside of
         19     but contiguous to the city.
052019A  6-17-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 6.19 acres outside of
         19     but contiguous to the city.
R061719A 6-17-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexation of Sharp Printing property.
         19
R061719B 6-17-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexation of Becker Place property.
         19
R071519E 7-15-  Correcting a scrivener’s error in Ord. 041519, setting an effective date of
         19     January 1, 2020.
R071519F 7-15-  Correcting a scrivener’s error in Ord. 041519A, setting an effective date of
         19     January 1, 2020.
081919   9-16-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of 50.33 acres located outside of but
         19     contiguous to the city.
R091619  9-16-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city
         19     (Bridger Pines II).
R102119C 10-18- Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city
         19     (Cyntheanne Meadows).
091619G  10-21- Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 13.12 acres located
         19     outside of but contiguous to the city (Cyntheanne Meadows).
091619I  10-21- Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 3.4 acres located
         19     outside of but contiguous to the city (Cummings and Wilson).
091619J  10-21- Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 1.34 acres located
         19     outside of but contiguous to the city (Fishers Church of Christ).
R102119D 10-21- Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city
         19     (Cummings and Wilson Annexation).
R102119E 10-21- Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city
         19     (Fishers Church of Christ).
102119   11-26- Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 10.14 acres located
         19     outside of but contiguous to the city (Kelly Woods).
102119A  11-26- Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately l 0.443 acres located
         19     outside of but contiguous to the city (Kelly Woods).
R112619  11-26- Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city
         19     (Kelly Woods).
R112619A 11-26- Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city
         19     (Davis Property).
         12-16- Request to approve a voluntary annexation of one lot known as the Ahmad Karim
121619A  19     property, located at 12550 Lantern Rd., and consisting of approximately 0.46
                acres.
R012120F 1-21-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Ahmad Karim annexation.
         20
012120   2-17-  Annexing certain real estate also known as the Q-Comm, Lot 2 annexation.
         20
R021720  2-17-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property of Q-Comm, Lot 2.
         20
021720A  2-17-  Annexing certain real estate known as the Iron Pointe annexation.
         20
021720B  4-20-  Annexing certain real estate known as the Atkins annexation.
         20
R042020E 4-20-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Iron Pointe annexation.
         20
R042020F 4-20-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Atkins annexation.
         20
R122120I 12-21- Approving a pre-annexation agreement for certain property located at 11110 E.
         20     106th Street.
R011921D 1-19-  Adopting the fiscal plan for the annexation of Hoosier Estates (Lots 2R-B/2R-
         21     C).
R011921E 1-19-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the McNeely annexation.
         21
R011921F 1-19-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Clark annexation.
         21
R011921G 1-19-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of the Watson-Robinson properties.
         21
R011921H 1-19-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Grantham PUD annexation.
         21
122120A  1-19-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Grantham PUD annexation.
         21
122120C  1-19-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Watson-Robinson
         21     annexation.
122120D  1-19-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Hoosier Estates (Lots 2R-
         21     B/2R-C) annexation.
122120E  1-19-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the McNeely property
         21     annexation.
122120F  1-19-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Clark property annexation.
         21
011921A  2-15-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the US Foods Expansion
         21     annexation.
011921D  2-15-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Maple Del annexation.
         21
R021521D 2-15-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Maple Del annexation.
         21
R021521E 2-15-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the US Foods Expansion annexation.
         21
021521   4-19-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Summerfield annexation.
         21
021521A  4-19-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Wetherill annexation.
         21
021521B  4-19-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Legacy Bible Church
         21     Property Annexation.
021521C  4-19-  Annexing certain real estate commonly referred to as 11110 E. 106th Street.
         21
R041921B 4-19-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Legacy Bible Church annexation.
         21
R041921C 4-19-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Summerfield annexation.
         21
R041921D 4-19-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Wetherill annexation.
         21
R041921E 4-19-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Sunderman Estates annexation.
         21
051721   6-21-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Playschool at Saxony
         21     annexation.
051721A  6-21-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Giulioni annexation.
         21
R062121E 6-21-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Playschool at Saxony annexation.
         21
R062121F 6-21-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Giulioni annexation.
         21
092021C  10-11- Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Cove at Thorpe Creek
         21     annexation.
R101121A 10-11- Adopting a fiscal plan for the Cove at Thorpe Creek annexation.
         21
011822A  2-21-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Courtyards of Fishers PUD
         22     annexation.
011822B  2-21-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Yin Property annexation.
         22
011822C  2-21-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Wiler Property annexation.
         22
R022122C 2-21-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Courtyards of Fishers PUD annexation.
         22
R022122D 2-21-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Yin Property annexation.
         22
R022122E 2-21-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Wiler Property annexation.
         22
032122A  4-18-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Abbott Commons Subdivision
         22     annexation.
R041822C 4-18-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Abbott Commons annexation.
         22
041822A  5-16-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Burns Property annexation.
         22
041822B  5-16-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Whitcraft Estates
         22     annexation.
041822C  5-16-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Hurst Property annexation.
         22
041822D  5-16-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the McMullan Property
         22     annexation.
R051622D 5-16-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Burns Property annexation.
         22
R051622E 5-16-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Whitcraft Estates annexation.
         22
R051622F 5-16-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the Hurst Property annexation.
         22
R051622G 5-16-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the McMullan Property annexation.
         22
051622E  6-20-  Annexing certain real estate generally to be known as the Milford Park.
         22
051622F  6-20-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 15.069 acres located
         22     outside of but contiguous to the city.
R062022F 6-20-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city.
         22
R062022G 6-20-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city.
         22
071822   8-15-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 16.9 acres located
         22     outside of but contiguous to the city.
071822A  8-15-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 0.8 acres located
         22     outside of but contiguous to the city.
R081522C 8-15-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city.
         22
R081522D 8-15-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city.
         22
081522   9-19-  Annexing certain real estate consisting of approximately 5.7 acres located
         22     outside of but contiguous to the city.
         9-19-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of certain real estate known as Home
R091922F 22     Court Estates, consisting of approximately 5.7 acres located outside of but
                contiguous to the city.
121922A  1-17-  Annexing 14050 Allisonville Road, approximately five acres located outside of
         23     but contiguous to the city.
121922B  1-17-  Annexing the Tolle Property, approximately 0.59 acre located outside of but
         23     contiguous to the city.
121922C  1-17-  Annexing the McDermott Property, 11444 Timberlane Road, approximately one acre
         23     located outside of but contiguous to the city.
R011723C 1-17-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexing the Tolle Property, approximately 0.59
         23     acre located outside of but contiguous to the city.
R011723D 1-17-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexing the McDermott Property, 11444 Timberlane
         23     Road, approximately one acre located outside of but contiguous to the city.
011723A  2-20-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Wood Property.
         23
R022023A 2-20-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexing the Wood Property.
         23
022023A  3-20-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Ren Property.
         23
R032023D 3-20-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexing the Ren Property.
         23
041723F  5-15-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as Willow Crest Lot 3.
         23
041723G  5-15-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as Willow Crest Lot 5.
         23
041723H  5-15-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as Willow Crest Lot 4.
         23
R051523G 5-15-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexing Willow Crest Lot 3.
         23
R051523H 5-15-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexing Willow Crest Lot 5.
         23
R051523I 5-15-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexing Willow Crest Lot 4.
         23
041723E  8-21-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Geist Forest Subdivision.
         23
061923E  8-21-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the City Walk (Lots 1-7, 9-
         23     12).
061923F  8-21-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the City Walk (Lot 17).
         23
R082123J 8-21-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexing Geist Forest.
         23
R082123K 8-21-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexing City Walk (Lots 1-7, 9-12).
         23
R082123L 8-21-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexing City Walk (Lot 17).
         23
082123C  9-18-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Nix Property.
         23
082123D  9-18-  Annexing certain real estate generally known as the Kaley Property.
         23
R091823B 9-18-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexing the Nix Property.
         23
R091823C 9-18-  Adopting a fiscal plan for annexing the Kaley Property.
         23
051523E  10-9-  Annexing certain real estate to the city, generally known as Flat Fork PUD
         23     (Georgia Road) Annexation.
051523F  10-9-  Annexing certain real estate to the city, generally known as Flat Fork PUD
         23     (Cyntheanne Road) Annexation.
091823B  10-9-  Annexing certain real estate to the city, generally known as the Magnolia
         23     Grove Salon Annexation.
R100923E 10-9-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city,
         23     generally known as Flat Fork (Georgia Road) Annexation.
R100923F 10-9-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city,
         23     generally known as Magnolia Grove Salon Annexation.
R100923G 10-9-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city,
         23     generally known as Flat Fork PUD (Cyntheanne Road) Annexation.
100923C  11-20- Annexing certain real estate to the city, generally known as Fishers Community
         23     Center Annexation.
R112023C 11-20- Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city
         23     for the Fishers Community Center Annexation.
121823B  1-16-  Annexing certain real estate to the city, generally known as the Carrington
         24     Office Annexation.
R011624B 1-16-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city,
         24     generally known as the Carrington Office Annexation.
R011624C 1-16-  Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city,
         24     generally known as the Jai Hanuman Temple Annexation.
02935C   4-15-  Annexing certain real estate to the city, generally known as the Geist
         24     Community Center.
081924E  9-9-24 Annexing certain real estate to the city, generally known as the 12685 Lantern
                Road Annexation.
R090924C 9-9-24 Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city,
                generally known as the 12685 Lantern Road Annexation.
R090924D 9-9-24 Adopting a fiscal plan for annexation of contiguous territory to the city,
                generally known as the Southeast Fishers Annexation.
111824A  12-16- Annexing certain real estate to the city, generally known as Kid City USA
         24     Cyntheanne Road.
111824B  12-16- Annexing certain real estate to the city, generally known as Autumn Estates.
         24
R121624C 12-16- Adopting a fiscal plan for annexation of contiguous property to the city,
         24     generally known as Autumn Estates.
R121624D 12-16- Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of property contiguous to the city,
         24     generally known as Kid City Cyntheanne Road.
090924C  1-13-  Annexing certain real estate to the city, generally known as the Southeast
         25     Fishers Annexation Area.
               
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date     Description
          Passed
11-6-67   11-6-67  Approving a street lighting contract with Public Service Company of Indiana,
                   Inc.
1-5-70    1-5-70   Approving a street lighting contract with Public Service Company of Indiana,
                   Inc.
1-23-78   1-23-78  A contract authorizing the southern Hamilton County regional sewer service.
91283     9-12-83  Approving a street lighting contract with Public Service Company of Indiana,
                   Inc.
041791    5-15-91  An agreement with R.M. Stoeppelwerth to provide for extraterritorial use of
                   the wastewater treatment facilities.
041791A   5-15-91  An agreement with Shirley Brothers Funeral Home to provide for
                   extraterritorial use of the wastewater treatment facilities.
010694E   3-30-94  An agreement with Hamilton Southeastern Utilities with reference to
                   construction of a lift station.
         3-30-94  A road impact fee intent agreement with Crossman Communities Partnership to
                   foster development and improvement of its street and road infrastructure.
100200    10-2-00  Approval of a lease between the Town of Fishers Redevelopment Authority and
                   the Town of Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
082001    8-20-01  Approval of a lease between the Fishers Redevelopment Authority and the
                   Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
                   Approving the sale and purchase of Flatfork Creek Utility, Inc., approving
112002    11-20-02 the sewer main extension policy agreement and acknowledging the order of the
                   Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission.
120202C   12-2-02  Approving amendments to leases and taking other actions regarding the Fishers
                   Town Hall Building Corporation First Mortgage Refunding Bonds of 2003.
020302A   2-18-03  Approving amendments to leases and taking other actions regarding the Fishers
                   Town Hall Building Corporation First Mortgage Refunding Bonds of 2003.
092203    9-22-03  Approving one or more leases between the Fishers Redevelopment Authority and
                   the Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
—       6-19-06  126th Street Impact Fee Agreement.
R121508A  12-15-08 Confirming the park purchase agreement between the Town of Fishers and
                   Precedent Residential Development.
R121508B  12-15-08 Confirming the 126th Street Road Impact Fee Agreement between the Town of
                   Fishers and Precedent Residential Development.
R010509A  1-5-09   Approving an economic development agreement with Interchange Diversified, LLC
                   and certain other matters in connection therewith.
R051809B  5-18-09  Confirming the Sunbeam (Delaware Commons) Road Impact Fee Agreement
R111609   11-16-09 Confirming the Sunbeam (Delaware Commons) Road Impact Fee Agreement between
                   the town and Sunbeam Development Corporation.
031510A   3-15-10  Approving an amendment to lease and taking other actions regarding the 2010
                   Bonds and the First Amendment to Lease.
                   Authorizing issuance of bonds for the purpose of providing funds to be
051710B   5-17-10  applied to be paid for construction of certain intersection improvements and
                   incidental expenses in connection therewith and on account of the issuance of
                   the bonds.
R071910   7-19-10  Approving an economic development agreement with Centre Properties, LLC.
R071910A  8-2-10   Approving a design contract.
101810    10-18-10 Approving lease between Fishers Redevelopment Authority and the Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission.
040411    4-4-11   Approving lease between Fishers Redevelopment Authority and the Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission.
R091911C  9-19-11  Approving execution of lease between Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation
                   and Town of Fishers.
R071612B  7-16-12  Authorizing the purchase of 2.6 acres of property generally known as 104th
                   and Florida Road from the Boulders Property Owners Association, Inc.
091712B   9-17-12  Approving an amendment to lease and taking other actions regarding the 2003
                   bonds and the First Amendment to Lease.
R111912A  11-19-12 Authorizing an amendment to road impact fee intent resolution and agreement
                   between the town and Fishers Group, L.P.
041513B   4-15-13  Approving a lease between the Fishers Redevelopment Authority and the Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission.
061713    6-17-13  Approving a lease between the Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation and the
                   Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
R110413A  12-16-13 Authorizing a lease agreement with Historic Ambassador House and Heritage
                   Gardens.
020314A   2-3-14   Approving a lease between the Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation and the
                   Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
R031714A  3-17-14  Approving the special contract for extension of sewer mains and facilities
                   for Cottingham Estates between Hamilton Southeastern and the Town of Fishers.
R031714B  3-17-14  Approval of contract for Cyntheanne South bike trail installation.
                   Approving a garage lease among the Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation, as
060214A   6-2-14   lessor, and Fishers Urban Development, LLC and the Fishers Redevelopment
                   Commission, as co-lessees.
                   Approving a garage lease among the Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation, as
060214B   6-2-14   lessor, and Fishers Redevelopment LR, LLC, an the Fishers Redevelopment
                   Commission, as co-lessees.
                   Authorizing the issuance of the Town of Fishers taxable Economic Development
080414A   8-4-14   Revenue Bonds (Fishers Redevelopment LR LLC project) in an amount not to
                   exceed $15,1454,000.
                   Authorizing the issuance of the Town of Fishers taxable Economic Development
080414B   8-4-14   Revenue Bonds (Fishers Urban Development LLC project) in an amount not to
                   exceed $8,835,000.
R060214B  6-2-14   Approving an economic development agreement with Deer Creek Point MOB, LLC,
                   for construction of an office building.
R060214F  6-2-14   Authorizing the purchase of property generally located at 11608 Jaycee
                   Street.
R072114F  7-21-14  Approving a first amendment to a project agreement with Fishers Urban
                   Development, LLC, for a mixed use development.
R072114G  7-21-14  Approving a first amendment to a project agreement with Fishers Redevelopment
                   LR, LLC, for a mixed use development.
R070714E  8-4-14   Approving an amended and restated agreement for impact fee credit; Saxony
                   Beach and Lake easement; and maintenance and operation of Saxony Beach.
R080414   8-4-14   Approving the purchase of approximately 0.131 acres located at or about 13150
                   E. 96th Street.
R080414A  8-4-14   Transferring certain real property to the Fishers Town Hall Building
                   corporation.
R090214A  9-2-14   Approving second amendment to project agreement (Yeager/KFC project).
R091514C  9-15-14  Approving economic development agreement for Matt & Rachel, LLC dba Bub's
                   Burgers & Ice Cream.
R100614F  10-6-14  Approving economic development agreement with Image One, LLC dba Awning
                   Innovations.
R100614G  10-6-14  Approving third amendment to project agreement with Urban Development, LLC
                   (Yeager).
R110514C  11-05-14 Approving third amendment to project agreement.
061515    6-16-15  Approving lease agreement between Fishers Redevelopment Authority and the
                   Fishers Redevelopment Commission to finance road projects.
R072215G  7-22-15  Approving first amendment to Economic Development Agreement (Deer Creek Point
                   MOB).
R092115D  9-21-15  Approving road impact fee credit amendment.
R101915A  10-19-15 Approving first amendment to funding agreement (design and construction of
                   parking garage).
R011916   1-19-16  Approving impact fee agreement with TopGolf International.
R011916A  1-19-16  Approving 2016 municipal equipment lease purchase (Financing Agreement).
R021516C  2-15-16  Approving an EDA with Braden Business Systems.
R021516F  2-15-16  Approving an EDA with Stanley Security Solutions.
032116F   3-21-16  Approving a lease between the Fishers Redevelopment Authority and the Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission.
R032116E  3-21-16  Approving fourth amendment to project agreement.
041816B   4-18-16  Approving a lease between the Fishers Redevelopment Authority and the Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission.
R041816B  4-18-16  Approving first amendment to agreement for transfer of real property by and
                   between the city and Sunbeam Development Corporation.
R041816C  4-18-16  Approving an impact fee agreement.
R051616E  5-16-16  Approving a lease amendment and pledging the city’s distributive share of
                   county option income tax revenues to the payment of lease rentals.
R062016E  6-20-16  Approving project agreement.
R062016F  6-20-16  Approving economic development agreement.
                   Approving a garage lease among the Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation and
                   HG Envoy Fishers LLC and the Fishers Redevelopment Commission and a lease
071816E   7-18-16  between the Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation and the Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission, and pledging the city’s distributive share of
                   county option income tax revenues to the payment of lease rental on the
                   leases.
R071816D  7-18-16  Approving an amendment to lease between the Fishers Town Hall Building
                   Corporation and the Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
                   Approving an amendment to lease among the Fishers Town Hall Building
R071816E  7-18-16  Corporation and Fishers Redevelopment LR, LLC and the Fishers Redevelopment
                   Commission, and an amendment to lease between the Fishers Town Hall Building
                   Corporation and the Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
                   Approving an amendment to lease among the Fishers Town Hall Building
R071816F  7-18-16  Corporation and Fishers Urban Development, LLC and the Fishers Redevelopment
                   Commission.
R080816   8-8-16   Approving a contract for software implementation services.
R081516A  9-19-16  Approving economic development agreement.
R081516B  8-15-16  Approving fee waiver agreement.
R081516E  8-15-16  Approving certified technology park agreement.
081516F   8-15-16  To establish taxable economic development revenue bonds.
081516I   8-15-16  Authorizing the issuance of city Redevelopment District County Option Income
                   Tax Revenue bonds.
081516J   8-15-16  Authorizing the issuance of city Redevelopment District County Option Income
                   Tax Revenue bonds.
R091916F  9-19-16  Approving amendments to the declaratory resolution for the consolidated
                   Fishers/I-69 economic development area.
R091916G  9-19-16  Approving economic development agreement.
R091916H  9-19-16  Transferring certain real property to the Fishers Town Hall Building
                   Corporation.
R091916I  9-19-16  Transferring certain real property to the Fishers Town Hall Building
                   Corporation.
R091916J  9-19-16  Approving project agreement.
101716E   10-17-16 Amending Ord. 081516J, authorizing the issuance of city taxable Economic
                   Development Revenue bonds (North of North Project).
                   Authorizing issuance of bonds for the purpose of providing funds to be
101716F   10-17-16 applied to pay for construction of certain road improvements and incidental
                   expenses in connection therewith and on account of the issuance of the bonds.
101716G   10-17-16 Pledging the city’s distributive share of county option income tax revenues
                   to the payment of city redevelopment district bonds.
112116C   11-21-16 Pledging the city’s distributive share of county option income tax revenues
                   to the payment of city redevelopment district bonds.
                   Approving right-of-way grant, road improvements and fee waiver agreement with
R112116D  11-21-16 Diamond Realty II, LLC, for the Harley Davidson Secondary Plat, located at
                   the southeast corner of 126th Street and State Road 37.
                   Approving a scoping agreement with Hagerman Police Station, LLC, to develop,
R112816A  11-28-16 design, build and finance the city’s police station and a public parking
                   garage, and to remodel the interior of the city’s current police station.
                   Approving a professional services agreement with Malinowski Consulting, Inc.,
R121216   12-12-16 to document for state and federal program administrators eligible expenses of
                   the Fire Department in providing city-wide ambulatory services to eligible
                   Medicaid beneficiaries.
                   Approving a project agreement with Thompson Thrift Development, Inc., to
R121916C  12-19-16 provide economic incentives for its investment of no less than $40,000,000 in
                   redeveloping real property located east of Interstate 69 on 116th Street,
                   including the construction of retail space and certain culinary accelerators.
R121916D  12-19-16 Approving first amendment to Resolution R091916G.
R010917   1-12-17  Request to approve KSMC Professional Services Agreement.
R011217   1- 17    Approving a professional services agreement with KSM Consulting.
R012317B  1-23-17  Casing removal agreement by and between the city and Marathon Pipe Line LLC.
R041017   4-10-17  Approving a services agreement with Ratio Architects, Inc.
R041017A  4-10-17  Approving a professional services agreement with RQAW, LLC.
R042417   4-24-17  Transferring certain real property to the Redevelopment Commission.
R050817A  5-8-17   Transferring certain real property to the Redevelopment Commission.
R051517C  5-15-17  Approving a financing agreement for the city in regards to the purchase of
                   certain personal property.
R052217A  5-22-17  Approving a license agreement with Springdale Estates Fishers, IN, LLC.
071717F   7-17-17  Approving a lease between the Fishers Redevelopment Commission and Fishers
                   Town Hall Building Corporation with respect to The Yard project.
071717G   7-17-17  Authorizing the issuance of city taxable economic development revenue bonds
                   (Central Indiana Orthopedics Project).
071717I   7-17-17  Approving a lease between the Fishers Redevelopment Authority and Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission with respect to The Geist Park project.
082117K   8-21-17  Authorizing the issuance of economic development revenue bonds Series 2017A
                   and taxable series 2017B (sports and entertainment complex project).
R082817C  9-1-17   Approving a renewal of internet and ethernet services agreements with
                   Lightower Fiber Networks.
R112017   11-20-17 Approving a financing agreement for the purchase of certain personal
                   property.
R112017J  11-20-17 Approving a park impact fee agreement.
R112017N  11-20-17 Transferring certain real property to the Fishers Town Hall Building
                   Corporation.
R112717   11-27-17 Approving a fourth amendment to a certain clinic management agreement with
                   Quad/Med, LLC.
R012218D  1-22-18  Approving 2018 services agreement by and between the city and the Humane
                   Society for Hamilton County.
021918    2-19-18  Authorizing the issuance of 2018 bonds (acquisition of real estate for
                   waterfront recreation purposes).
R022618C  3-12-18  Approving a services agreement with Edge Adventures, LLC.
R032618   3-26-18  Approving farm and program services agreement with Brandywine Creek Farms,
                   LLC.
                   Approving a lease between the Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation and the
R041618B  4-16-18  City of Fishers with respect to a new police station and public parking
                   garage.
R042318   4-23-18  Approving documents regarding the sale and transfer of the Switch multi-
                   family building and parcel.
R042318A  4-23-18  Amending the farm and program services agreement with Brandywine Creek Farms,
                   LLC.
R042318C  4-23-18  Granting a non-exclusive easement to Duke Energy.
R052118E  5-21-18  Approving a project agreement between the Redevelopment Commission and
                   Fishers Ellipse, LLC.
052118    5-21-18  Amending Ord. 021918 regarding General Obligation Bonds.
052118B   5-21-18  Issuing Economic Development Revenue Bonds Series 2018A.
052118C   5-21-18  Authorizing Economic Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2018B.
R061118   6-11-18  Approving amendments to the wholesale sewer agreement by and between Hamilton
                   Southeastern Utilities, Inc., and the city.
052118B   6-18-18  Authorizing Economic Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2018A.
052118C   6-18-18  Authorizing Economic Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2018B.
R061818H  6-18-18  Approving project agreement with HG 8939 Technology, LLC.
                   Approving certain matters in connection with an amendment to the declaratory
R061818I  6-18-18  resolution for the Consolidated Fishers/I-69 economic development area, and
                   the plan for said area.
R062518A  6-25-18  Approving the special purchase of an enterprise license agreement with
                   Environmental Systems Research Institute for GIS Software.
R071618E  7-16-18  Approving project agreement with RealAmerica Development, LLC.
R072318B  7-23-18  Amending public-private agreement for police station and police garage and
                   ancillary agreements thereto.
R072318D  7-23-18  Approving supply chain agreement with MHG Indiana, LLC.
R82018B   8-20-18  Approving land acquisition agreement and authorizing action for closing on
                   Nickel Plate Trail development property.
                   Approving lease between Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation and Fishers
102218A   10-22-18 Redevelopment Commission - the Consolidated Fishers/I-69 Economic Development
                   Area.
102218C   10-22-18 Amending and restating of ordinance approving leases for North Street and
                   Lantern Road Project.
R102218C  10-22-18 Approving lease between Fishers Redevelopment Authority and Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission with respect to the Nickel Plate Trail project.
R111318E  11-13-18 Approving land acquisition agreement with 11671 Maple, LLC.
111918A   11-19-18 Authorizing Economic Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2018_.
R112618A  11-26-18 Approving Fire Station Nos. 91 and 93 agreements.
R121718E  12-17-18 Approving first amendment to project agreement by and among the City of
                   Fishers, City of Fishers Redevelopment Commission and Amp Northwest, LLC.
R121718G  12-17-18 Approving memorandum of understanding.
                   Approving project agreement by and among the City of Fishers, City of Fishers
R121718H  12-17-18 Redevelopment Commission, Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation and Amp
                   West, LLC.
R122118D  12-21-18 Approving a master services and purchasing agreement with Axon for evidence
                   storage, fleet hardware, and body worn cameras.
R011419   1-14-19  Approving 2019 service agreement with Humane Society of Hamilton County.
R011419A  1-14-19  Approving contract for Public Works training room and office buildout.
R011419B  1-14-19  Approving limited and temporary dredging agreement with J.S. McCullough
                   Excavating, LLC.
R011419C  1-14-19  Approving license agreement to operate a portion of the Nickel Plate Trail
                   pursuant to the National Trails System Act.
R012819F  1-14-19  Approving participation agreement with ProMutual Solutions Insurance Company
                   acting on behalf of Alliance Healthcare Coalition Protected Cell.
R021119   2-11-19  Approving non-profit contribution agreements.
R021119L  2-11-19  Approving engineering agreement.
R021119M  2-11-19  Approving a guaranteed savings contract for the Cheeney Creek WWTP biosolids
                   dewatering improvements - centrifuge 2 with Bowen Engineering.
R022519B  2-25-19  Approving an equipment lease-purchase agreement and funding agreement with
                   respect to a guaranteed energy savings contract.
R022519D  2-25-19  Approving a public works contract.
R031119D  3-11-19  First amendment to land acquisition agreement.
R031119E  3-11-19  Third amendment to consulting services agreement.
R031819B  3-18-19  Second amendment to economic development agreement.
R031819C  3-18-19  Approving project agreement.
R032519A  3-25-19  Approving loan agreement between Indianapolis Fire Department and Fishers
                   Fire Department.
R032519D  3-25-19  Approving agreement for EMS and fire protection services (Fall Creek
                   Township).
R032519E  3-25-19  Approving agreement for EMS and fire protection services (Delaware Township).
R032519F  3-25-19  Second amendment to landscape maintenance services with Brightview
                   Landscapes, LLC.
R032519G  3-25-19  Approving 2019 Farmers Market agreement.
R040819A  4-8-     Approving construction manager agreement for development and construction of
          19    Fire Station 91.
R040819B  4-8-     Approving construction manager as constructor agreement.
          19   
041519F   4-15-19  Approving a garage lease between Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation, as
                   lessor, and Fisher's Redevelopment Commission, as lessee.
R042219A  4-22-19  Ratifying contract for demolition of Fire Station 91.
R042219B  4-22-19  Awarding bids for Fire Station 91.
R051319C  5-13-19  Approving a professional services agreement for downtown development.
052019H   5-20-19  Authorizing issuance of taxable economic development revenue bonds (Nickle
                   Plate North Properties, Inc).
R052019F  5-20-19  Approving a lease between Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation, as lessor
                   and Fishers Redevelopment Commission, as lessee.
R052819D  5-28-19  Awarding multiple bids for Fire Station 91.
061719A   6-16-19  Amending Ord. 052019H regarding taxable economic development revenue bonds.
061719B   6-17-19  Authorizing the issuance of taxable economic development revenue bonds
                   (SPF15, Inc).
R061719D  6-17-19  Approving an economic development agreement with Pullman Point, LLC.
R070819A  7-8-19   Approving contracts for Geist Greenway, Phases 1A and 1B.
R070819D  7-8-19   Approving an engineering agreement for the South Street Corridor Study and
                   the Lantern Road Corridor Study.
                   Approving a professional services agreement for the design of a water main
R070819E  7-8-19   and a sanitary sewer along Municipal Drive and South Street to accommodate
                   new development within the Nickel Plate District.
R070819F  7-8-19   Approving supplemental services agreement for construction inspection
                   regarding the Allison Road Project.
R071519A  7-15-19  Approving an economic development agreement with Thompson Thrift for an
                   office, a hotel and retail amenities.
R073119   7-31-19  Approving a professional services agreement for the designing the redirection
                   of a sanitary sewer within the Nickel Plate District.
R073119A  7-31-19  Approving a guaranteed saving contract for the downtown sanitary sewer
                   redirection project.
R073119C  7-31-19  Granting a nonexclusive utility easement for Arbor Pines.
                   Approving a professional services agreement with Turquoise Wealth Management,
R073119D  7-31-19  LLC, to provide investment services for the city’s fixed-income asset
                   portfolio.
R073119F  7-31-19  Approving ancillary agreements as part of a project agreement with SPF15,
                   Inc., for mixed-use development and a garage.
R073119H  7-31-19  Awarding a rail bid for the Nickel Plate Railroad and approving an interim
                   trails use agreement for the Nickel Plate Trail.
R081219D  8-12-19  Approving a contract for design services regarding the Nickel Plate Trail.
R081219E  8-12-19  Approving a contract for design services regarding the Nickel Plate Trail.
R081219F  8-12-19  Approving a quote to replace the concrete apron at Station 94.
R081919B  8-19-19  Approving an economic development agreement for Lake Meadows Project.
                   Approving a first amendment to a professional services agreement with Donohue
R082619   8-26-19  and Associates, Inc. for design engineering services related to the Cheeney
                   Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant expansion.
R082619A  8-26-19  Approving an equipment lease-purchase agreement and funding agreement with
                   respect to a certain guaranteed energy savings contract.
R082619F  8-26-19  Awarding bid for Fire Stations 94 and 95 HVAC/cross ventilation.
R082619H  8-26-19  Approving third amendment to State Road 37 corridor design contract with
                   American Structurepoint, Inc.
R082619I  8-26-19  Approving a quote to purchase a certain F550 with concrete body.
R090919   9-9-19   Board of Public Works and Safety approving third amendment to project
                   management professional services contract with RQAWW.
R090919C  9-9-19   Approving LPA Agreement for Project Coordination contract for 106th Street
                   and Hoosier Road Roundabout project.
R092319B  9-23-19  Fishers Board of Public Works and Safety approving LPA Agreement for project
                   coordination for Cumberland Road Project from 106th Street to 116th Street.
R092319C  9-23-19  Fishers Board of Public Works and Safety approving a utility reimbursement
                   agreement for Moore Lane Relocation Project.
R092319D  9-23-19  Fishers Board of Public Works and safety approving supplemental agreement no.
                   4 with Beam, Longest and Neff, LLC for State Road 37 Corridor Project.
R092319E  9-23-19  Fishers Board of Public Works and Safety approving a utility reimbursement
                   agreement for State Road 37 and 146th Street Construction project.
                   Amending Ordinance 091619E authorizing the issuance of the local income tax
102119D   10-21-19 revenue refunding bonds, series 2019, for the purpose of refunding the county
                   option income tax revenue bonds of 2009, and addressing other matters
                   connected therewith.
R102819B  10-28-19 Fishers Board of Public Works and Safety approving the third amendment to the
                   landscape maintenance service agreement.
R102819J  10-28-19 Fishers Board of Public Works and Safety approving supplement no. 2 for the
                   construction inspection of Allisonville Road and 131st Street improvements.
R102819L  10-28-19 Fishers Board of Public Works and Safety approivng the 2019 Farmers Market
                   Agreement.
R102819O  10-28-19 Fishers Board of Public Works and Safety approving a utility reimbursement
                   agreement for downtown redevelopment.
R102819P  10-28-19 Fishers Board of Public Works and Safety approving a change order for road
                   resurfacing contract 19-02.
R102819Q  10-28-19 Fishers Board of Public Works and Safety approving a utility reimbursement
                   agreement for State Road 37.
112619    11-26-19 Authorizing the issuance of bonds for construction of certain road and trail
                   improvements.
R12919    12-9-19  The Board of Public Works and Safety awarding the quote of Indiana Power to
                   replace the generator at the City Services Building.
                   The Board of Public Works and Safety approving a professional services
R12919C   12-9-19  agreement with Maribeth Smith & Associates, Inc., to provide assistance with
                   the Spark!Fishers 4th of July event.
                   Approving a project agreement by and among Nickel Plate Hotel Properties,
R121619A  12-16-19 Inc., the Redevelopment Commission, and the Town Hall Building Corporation
                   for the development and construction of an upscale, boutique and hotel (The
                   Hotel Nickel Plate) in the city’s Nickel Plate District.
                   Approving an economic development agreement by and between the city and In
R121619B  12-16-19 Property Group LLC for the development of commercial office space at 0
                   Sunlight Drive.
R121619D  12-16-19 Approving an economic development agreement by and between the city and
                   Fishers 96th LLC for a retail out-lot development at 8766 E. 96th Street.
R121619I  12-16-19 Approving a city fee waiver agreement with the Humane Society for Hamilton
                   County, Inc., to develop and construct an animal shelter at 10501 Hague Road.
                   The Board of Public Works and Safety approving a second amendment to the
R122019C  12-20-19 professional services agreement with Donohue and Associates, Inc., for design
                   engineering services related to the Cheeney Creek Wastewater Treatment Plan
                   expansion.
R122019E  12-20-19 The Board of Public Works and Safety approving the bid of Reith Riley
                   Construction Co. for the 126th Street and Ford Drive Roundabout Project.
                   The Board of Public Works and Safety approving a professional services
                   agreement with On Call Engineering Services for services on an as-needed
R122019F  12-20-19 basis, including speed studies, four-way stop control studies, preliminary
                   sign warrant studies, queue length studies, trip generation studies, and
                   impact fee calculations.
R011320C  1-13-20  The Board of Public Works and Safety approving a professional services
                   agreement for Hague Road and Allisonville Road lift station improvements.
R011320D  1-13-20  The Board of Public Works and Safety approving a memorandum of agreement for
                   ATF Task Force.
R011320E  1-13-20  The Board of Public Works and Safety approving plan supervisor agreement with
                   United Group Services.
R012720F  1-27-20  The Board of Public Works and Safety approving a bid for construction
                   agreement for the Road Resurfacing Contract 20-01.
R021020   2-10-20  Approving a supplement to the Local public agency consulting contract with
                   Butler Fairman & Seufert, Inc. for the Nickel Plate Trail.
                   The Board of Public Works and Safety approving a locally funded engineering
R021020C  2-10-20  agreement with A&F Engineering for design services related to intersection
                   improvements at 116th Street and Allisonville Road.
                   The Board of Public Works and Safety approving an agreement for the
R021020I  2-10-20  development and construction of an accessible baseball field at Billercay
                   Park.
R022420D  2-24-20  The Board of Public Works and Safety approving non-profit contribution
                   agreements.
R032320C  3-23-20  Approving one or more series of Fishers Redevelopment Authority Lease Rental
                   Revenue Refunding bonds.
R032320D  3-23-20  Approving issuance of Taxable Redevelopment District Refunding bonds, Series
                   2020 to refinance State Road 37 project.
032320A   4-20-20  Authorizing issuance of bonds to refinance general obligation bonds of 2010
                   series for construction of road improvements.
R042020A  4-2020   Approving fourth amendment to economic development agreement for property at
                   9800 Crosspoint Boulevard.
R042020C  4-20-20  Approving economic development agreement for property at 9900 Westpoint
                   Drive.
051820    6-15-20  Amending Ordinance 032320A authorizing general obligation bonds.
FRC       6-15-20  Amending economic development plan for Geist Southeast, Geist West and Geist
03R061520          North Economic Development Areas.
R072020A  7-20-20  Approving lease between Fishers Redevelopment Authority and Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission with respect to Geist Park improvement project.
R081720A  8-17-20  Approving amendment to the declaratory resolution for Geist Southeast, Geist
                   West and Geist North Economic Development Areas.
R081720B  8-17-20  Approving lease rental revenue refunding bonds (106th Street Interchange
                   Project).
R081720C  8-17-20  Approving lease rental revenue refunding bonds (126th Street Project).
R092120D  9-21-20  Approving first amendment to Nickel Plate development agreement of December
                   16, 2019.
R101920B  10-19-20 Approving economic development agreement for INCOG BioPharma Services, Inc.
R101920C  10-19-20 Approving economic development agreement for HG Hart Maple Del LLC.
                   Approving issuance of taxable redevelopment district refunding bonds Series
R101920A  10-29-20 2020A to refinance town redevelopment district bonds Series 2011 (Geist Road
                   Projects)
R111620A  11-16-20 Approving a lease between the Fishers Redevelopment Authority and the Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission with respect to the State Road 37 Phase II Project.
R111620B  11-16-20 Approving certain matters in connection with an amendment to the declaratory
                   resolution for the consolidated Fishers/I-69 Economic Development Area.
R111620C  11-16-20 Approving certain matters in connection with an amendment to the declaratory
                   resolution for the Olio Road/I-69 Economic Development Area.
R111620F  11-16-20 Approving first amendment to project agreement with SPF 15 Inc.
R122120G  12-21-20 Approving first amendment to economic development agreement between the city
                   and Fishers 96, LLC.
R122120H  12-21-20 Approving economic development agreement between the city and Memory
                   Ventures.
R021521C  2-15-21  Approving a project agreement between the city and Gray Eagle Golf L.L.C.
R031521A  3-15-21  Approving land acquisition and economic development agreement between the
                   city and Thompson Thrift.
R031521C  3-15-21  Approving first amendment to the economic development agreement between the
                   city and Rubbermaid Inc.
R062121A  6-21-21  Approving a lease between the Fishers Redevelopment Authority and the Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission.
R062121C  6-21-21  Approving a project agreement between the city and Stevanato.
R071921B  7-19-21  Approving development agreement between the city and Quantigen, LLC.
                   Approving an amendment to the economic development agreement between the city
R071921D  7-19-21  and Fishers Redevelopment Commission, the Fishers Town Hall Corporation and
                   Thyssenkrupp.
R081621C  8-16-21  Approving project agreement with Envoy 106 Fishers LLC for the Highline
                   Project.
081621    9-20-21  Approving issuance of sewage works revenue bonds to finance the acquisition
                   of sewage works and related assets from Hamilton Southeastern Utilities, Inc.
R092021A  9-20-21  Approving a lease between the Fishers Redevelopment Authority and the Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission with respect to the Station 97 Project.
R092021B  9-20-21  Approving a lease between the Fishers Redevelopment Authority and the Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission with respect to the State Road 37 Project.
R101121   11-15-21 Approving issuance of bonds to pay for construction of certain road and trail
                   improvements.
R111521B  11-15-21 Approving project agreement and authorizing abatement with List
                   Biotherapeutics, Inc.
111521B   11-15-21 Approving amendments to Ord. 101920 and Res. R122120E concerning general
                   obligation bonds.
111521A   12-20-21 Approving short term loan financing with Key Government Finance for the
                   annual fleet loan.
R022122A  2-21-22  Approving a lease between the Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation and the
                   Fishers Redevelopment Commission with respect to the Highline Project.
                   Approving project agreement with CRG Development for the development of the
R022122B  2-21-22  project generally located at the intersection of 96th Street and Allisonville
                   Road.
022122    3-21-22  Authorizing issuance of economic development revenue bonds, Series 2022B (the
                   Highline Project).
051622A   5-16-22  Amending Ord. 081516J with respect to the use of the proceeds of the city,
                   Taxable Economic Development Revenue Bonds, Series 2018C.s
R071822B  7-18-22  Approving first amendment to economic development agreement.
R081522B  8-15-22  Approving a project agreement (REV).
R091922A  9-19-22  Approving the execution of a lease with the Fishers Town Hall Building
                   Corporation for:
                 (1) Financing the acquisition of all or any portion of the City Services
                   Building located at 3 Municipal Drive;
                   (2) Financing the acquisition, construction, improvement and/or equipping all
                 or any portion of the Arts and Municipal Complex at 1 Municipal Drive (the
                   “City Hall Project”); and
                 (3) A lease for all or any portion of the City Services Building and the City
                   Hall Project, including the site and appurtenances thereto.
                   Approving project agreement with Andretti, a sister company of Andretti
                   Autosport, for developing and constructing its corporate headquarters and
R091922G  9-19-22  related commercial development to accommodate its racing operation and
                   engineering team, together with the development and construction of the
                   Andretti Racing Museum.
R091922H  9-19-22  Approving the first amendment to the project agreement between the city and
                   Stevanato.
R091922I  9-19-22  Approving the execution of a lease with the Fishers Town Hall Building
                   Corporation for:
                 (1) Financing the acquisition of the existing City Fire Department Fire
                   Stations 91, 93, 94 and 95 (collectively, the “Fire Stations”);
                   (2) Financing the acquisition, construction, improvement and/or equipping all
                 or any portion of the Event Center (collectively, the “Event Center”)
                   Project”); and
                 (3) A lease for all or any portion of the Fire Stations and the Event Center
                   Project, including the site and appurtenances thereto.
                   Approving certain matters in connection with an amendment to the declaratory
R101022A  10-10-22 resolution for the consolidated Fishers/I-69 Economic Development Area, the
                   expansion of that area, the expansion of an allocation area, and the approval
                   of a plan amendment for that area (Andretti Project).
R101022B  10-10-22 Approving the petition of taxpayers requesting that the Common Council enter
                   into negotiations with the Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation for:
                 (1) Financing the acquisition of the existing City Fire Department Fire
                   Stations 91, 93, 94 and 95 (collectively, the “Fire Stations”);
                   (2) Financing the acquisition, construction, improvement and/or equipping all
                 or any portion of the Event Center (collectively, the “Event Center”)
                   Project”); and
                 (3) A lease for all or any portion of the Fire Stations and the Event Center
                   Project, including the site and appurtenances thereto.
091922A   11-14-22 Authorizing the issuance of taxable economic development revenue bonds (96th
                   Street Investors LLC Residential Project).
091922E   11-14-22 Authorizing the issuance of taxable economic development revenue bonds
                   (Andretti Project).
101022    11-14-22 Authorizing the issuance of General Obligation Bonds, Series 2022A, for the
                   construction of certain road improvements.
101022A   11-14-22 Authorizing the issuance of General Obligation Bonds, Series 2022B, for trail
                   improvements and the acquisition of certain equipment.
                   Approving the first amendment to the project agreement by and among the 96th
R121923C  12-19-22 Street Investors, LLC, the Fishers Economic Development Commission, and the
                   Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
011723C   1-17-23  Amending Ord. 052019H regarding taxable economic development revenue bonds.
051523    5-15-23  Approving a short-term loan financing the procurement of certain equipment
                   for the Fishers Fire Department.
R051523E  5-15-23  Approving an amendment to Res. R062121A and the lease agreement.
                   Approving a lease between the Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation, as
R100923A  10-9-23  lessor, and the Fishers Redevelopment Commission, as lessee, with respect to
                   the District South Project.
100923    11-20-23 Authorizing issuance of bonds for the purpose of providing funds to be
                   applied to pay for construction of certain road improvements.
100923A   11-20-23 Authorizing the issuance of taxable economic development revenue bonds,
                   Series 202_ (District South Project).
041524    4-15-24  Authorizing the issue of taxable Economic Development Revenue Bonds, Series
                   2024C (Cityview Special Benefits Tax).
041524A   4-15-24  Authorizing the issuance of taxable Economic Development Bonds, Series 2024D
                   (Cityview Special Benefits Tax).
                   Approving a garage lease between the Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation
R041524C  4-15-24  and the Fishers Redevelopment Commission with respect to the Cityview
                   Project.
041524E   4-15-24  Approving field use agreement with the Cincinnati Reds.
R052024B  5-20-24  Approving a lease between the Fishers Redevelopment Authority and the Fishers
                   Redevelopment Commission, with respect to the State Road 37 Project.
R052024C  5-20-24  Approving field use fee for Exclusive Sports Group LLC.
071524    7-15-24  Amending Ord. 100923, authorization for issuance of general obligation bonds,
                   Series 2023.
                   Authorizing the issuance of bonds for the purpose of providing funds to be
090924A   10-7-24  applied to pay for construction of certain road improvements and incidental
                   expenses.
100724    10-7-24  Amending the authorization for issuance of taxable economic development
                   revenue bonds, Series 2024D.
R100724E  10-7-24  Approving restated project agreement with Cityview.
R111824A  11-18-24 Approving certain matters in connection with an amendment to the declaratory
                   resolution fo rthe Consolidated Fishers/-69 Economic Development Area.
R111824B  11-18-24 Appropriating proceeds of Series 2024 General Obligation Bonds.
R111824C  11-18-24 Approving second amendment to project agreement with Andretti Autosport
                   Holding Company, LLC.
R111824D  11-18-24 Approving economic development agreement with DMC Insurance.
                  
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a franchise to Noblesville Cablevision, Inc., its
9-15-80  9-15-80     successors and assigns, to construct, operate and maintain
                     a cable television system in the town.
                     Granting a franchise to Insight Communications Company to
082395   10-4-95     construct, operate and maintain a cable television system
                     in the town.
                     Cable franchise fee due and payable to the Town of Fishers
R022111  2-21-11     in consideration of the benefits bestowed by franchise for
                     cable providers is hereby increased from 3 to 5.
                    
 
TABLE IV: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (PD) DISTRICTS
[Editor’s Note: The full text of the Planned Development Ordinances are printed
in the Planned Unit Development Ordinances Volume]
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date     Description
         Passed
121885A  12-18-85 NE Commerce parkFlynn & Zinkan
112085   12-18-85 CrosspointEaton & Lauth
081788   8-17-88  Exit 5Sunbeam
090788B  9-7-88   Exit 5Sunbeam
061588   6-15-88  Fairlane CenterDon Hinds Ford
06188    6-15-88  KirkpatrickK.E. Thompson
071989D  7-19-89  Kirkpatrick AmendedK.E. Thompson
122089B  12-20-89 Exit 5 — 121st St.Sunbeam
041890B  4-18-90  USA funds — USA funds
                day care
051690A  6-20-90  Exit 5 — TelcoSunbeam
040892A  7-15-92  Interstate Highway 69Geist Reservoir
080592E  9-9-92   Real estate adjacent to --
                portions of Indiana State
                Highway 37
100792A  11-4-92  Interstate Highway 69Geist Reservoir
100792B  11-4-92  Interstate Highway 69Geist Reservoir
072094B  8-24-94  Amends Ord. 112085
100495B  10-04-95 Property described on Exhibit A
011096C  2-21-96  Lantern Road as described on Exhibit A
020796B  2-21-96  The Kincaid PD as described on Exhibit A
072496   7-24-96  The Reynolds PD as described in Exhibit A.
100996A  10-23-96 The Gray Eagle PD as described in Exhibit A.
100996B  10-23-96 The Sandstone/Gray Eagle PD as described in Exhibit A.
100996C  10-23-96 Reclassification of real estate described in Exhibit A from
                  R3 to PD.
062597   8-20-97  Amending Ord. 090391A to allow a self-storage facility in
                  the Lantern Square PD.
110597F  12-10-97 Lantern Pointe PUD - Changing the zoning classification from
                  PD to PUD-M.
111997A  12-10-97 A.R.P. PUD-B.
111997B  12-10-97 Harbour PUD-B.
111997C  12-10-97 Harbour PUD-B.
010798C  1-21-98  Harbour PUD-B
                  Amending Ord. 110380 that the zoning classification of
020498C  2-18-98  described real estate in Exhibit A is classified as PUD-
                  C known as the Branttain-Haskin Technology Center PUD.
070898   7-22-98  Fishers Trade Center PUD
090298A  9-15-98  Ward PUD-C.
090298C  5-19-99  Loma Court PUD-C.
090298D  2-26-98  Washington Park Cemetery PUD-M.
110498C  11-18-98 Legends at Geist/Sawgrass PUD-R.
120699B  1-24-00  Britton Business Park PUD-C.
020399B  4-7-99   Hoosier Woods PUD-R.
030600B  3-20-00  Amending map of Gray Eagle PD which was established in Ord.
                  100999B.
032000E  8-14-00  Dine PUD-M.
071000A  8-14-00  116th Street and Brooks School Road - Commercial PUD-C.
012201D  5-7-01   Southeast Corner 116th and Olio Road PUD.
050701C  5-21-01  Amends Ord. 010693A.
080601F  8-6-01   Northwest Corner 116th/Olio Road PUD.
070901B  8-20-01  Brooks Chase PUD.
060401E  10-1-01  Saxony PUD.
060401F  10-1-01  Exit 10 Overlay District.
080601A  10-15-01 Olympia Partners Commercial PUD.
080601C  10-15-01 CJB Enterprises Residential PUD.
110501   1-23-02  Southeast Corner Olio Road and 116th Street - Commercial
                  PUD-M.
031802B  5-6-02   Amends Ord. 071000A.
010702A  6-17-02  Avalon PUD-M.
070102A  10-7-02  Shamrock PUD-C.
080502A  10-7-02  Sand Creek Farms PUD-R.
100702A  11-20-02 Brooks Chase II PUD.
100702B  11-4-02  Southwest Corner Olio Road and 116th Street - PUD-M.
021803E  5-5-03   Property described in Exhibit A.
031703A  5-19-03  Harks Landing PUD.
020303G  6-2-03   Avalon PUD-R.
020303   6-2-03   Avalon PUD-R.
040703   6-2-03   Sunny Meadows Farm PUD.
042103C  6-16-03  Saxony PUD-M.
021803A  6-16-03  Saxony PUD.
021803C  6-16-03  Saxony PUD.
042103D  7-7-03   Property described in Exhibit A.
051903F  7-7-03   Hamilton Proper PD.
042103A  7-21-03  Somerset Hills PUD.
042103B  7-21-03  Somerset Hills PUD.
051903D  7-21-03  Property described in Exhibit A.
061603B  7-21-03  South Avalon Estates PUD.
031703B  8-4-03   Property described in Exhibit A.
061603A  9-15-03  Property described in Exhibit A.
051903C  10-20-03 PUD-R for the real estate defined in Exhibit A.
072103A  10-20-03 Property described in Exhibit A.
072103C  10-20-03 Property described in Exhibit A.
072103E  10-20-03 Southeast Fishers PUD.
072103G  10-20-03 Southeast Fishers PUD-M.
072103I  10-20-03 Southeast Fishers PUD-M.
072103K  10-20-03 Southeast Fishers PUD-M.
072103M  10-20-03 Southeast Fishers PUD-M.
072103O  10-20-03 Southeast Fishers PUD-M.
072103Q  10-20-03 Southeast Fishers PUD-M.
081803A  10-20-03 Southeast Fishers PUD-M.
081803C  10-20-03 Property described in Exhibit A.
080403A  11-3-03  Property described in Exhibit A.
091503A  11-3-03  Harbour PUD.
100603A  11-17-03 Proeprty described in Exhibit A.
100603B  12-1-03  Seasons Gardens PUD.
111703D  1-5-04   Brooks Chase II PUD.
120103C  1-20-04  Exit 5 PUD.
120103E  2-2-04   Pet Palace PUD.
121503A  2-2-04   Property described in Exhibit A.
121503F  2-16-04  Property described in Exhibit A.
012004A  3-2-04   Property described in Exhibit A.
012004E  3-2-04   Property described in Exhibit A.
012004G  3-2-04   Property described in Exhibit A.
111703C  3-2-04   Property described in Exhibit A.
030303   3-3-04   Property described in Exhibit A.
121503C  4-19-04  Limestone Springs PUD-M.
121503D  4-19-04  Gray Eagle PUD-M.
021604A  5-17-04  Thorpe Creek PUD-R.
051704A  7-7-04   Graystone PUD.
080204B  9-7-04   Saxony PUD-M.
101804C  2-7-05   Gray Eagle PUD-M.
010305A  3-7-05   Walker Property PUD-M.
090704B  3-21-05  Marketplace PUD-M.
112204   4-18-05  Southeast Fishers PUD.
010305C  4-18-05  Hillsdale PUD-R.
040405A  6-20-05  Sandcreek Pet Campus PUD.
030705D  7-6-05   Pet Palace PUD-M.
070605D  8-1-05   Olio Road PUD.
070605B  9-19-05  Thorpe Creek PUD.
070605C  10-17-05 Southeast Fishers PUD-M.
020606   5-1-06   Amending Steeplechase PUD.
030606C  5-1-06   Amending Village at Gray Eagle PUD.
030606A  5-15-06  Amending Bridger Pines PUD.
030606B  5-15-06  Amending Vermillion PUD.
022006A  6-5-06   Amending text of Southwest Corner 116th/Olia Road PUD.
040306   7-17-06  Amending Boulders Ordinance 051903C.
050106A  10-2-06  Amending Fall Creek Marketplace PUD-C.
080706B  10-2-06  Amending Briarwood at Fishers PUD.
091806   12-18-06 Amending Hamilton Proper PUD.
021907B  4-16-07  Amending Britton Falls PUD.
120406B  5-9-07   Allisonville Place PUD.
061807   8-6-07   Mill Ridge Farms PUD.
061807A  8-6-07   The Boulders PUD.
090506   6-4-07   RiverPlace PUD.
070207   11-7-07  Lantern Point PUD.
090407   11-7-07  South Avalon Estates PUD.
120307   2-18-08  Walker PUD.
012208A  3-3-08   Crosspoint PUD.
080408   11-5-08  Creekside Shoppes
100608   12-1-08  Lantern Point Parcel 1 PUD.
120108A  2-2-09   Sand Creek Commons PUD.
010509A  3-2-09   Amending Saxony PUD.
122109A  2-1-10   Adult Family Living, Inc. (full PUD)
020110   4-12-10  Amends Ord. 100350E.
041210   9-7-10   Amending The Marina I LP PUD M.
080210   10-18-10 Amending Hawks Landing/Village at Gray Eagle/Gray Eagle PUD.
120610F  2-7-11   Amending Boulders PUD.
02111    5-4-11   Amending Southeast Fishers PUD -Ambria at Geist.
032111B  5-16-11  Amending Fishers Marketplace.
041811A  6-6-11   Silverleaf.
030711   7-22-11  Amending Southwest Corner Olio Road and 116th Street - PUD-
                  M.
051611   9-6-11   Saxony PUD.
081511C  10-17-11 Amending Parkside PUD.
100311   2-6-12   The Residences at the Crossing PUD District.
110911   12-5-11  Shamrock Landing PUD District.
040212A  5-21-12  Moore Dentistry PUD District.
040212B  5-21-12  Amending Ord. 080706B, Briarwood PUD District.
031912   6-18-12  Amending Ord. 08-17-88, Watermark @ Exit 5.
111912B  3-4-13   Amending Southeast Fishers PUD.
120312   3-4-13   Amending Pet Palace PUD.
021813   4-1-13   Amending Fishers Marketplace PUD.
041513   8-19-13  Amending Britton Falls PUD.
071513A  9-16-13  Amending Vermillion PUD.
081913   10-7-13  Amending Fishers Marketplace PUD.
071513B  10-21-13 Steeplechase PUD.
100713   12-16-13 Amending Saxony PUD.
120213   1-21-14  Amending Silverleaf PUD, now renamed Silverton PUD.
010614   2-3-14   Simply Dental PUD; replacing Ord. 122109A (Adult Family
                  Living, Inc. PUD).
010614A  2-3-14   Amending Southeast Fishers PUD.
012114   3-17-14  Amendment to the 141st Street and Promise Road PUD (Anderson
                  Hall).
031714A  5-7-14   Amending the Briarwood (Oakhurst) PUD.
070714   9-2-14   Amending Saxony PUD.
072114   9-2-14   Amending Allisonville Place PUD.
072114A  10-20-14 Amending Steeplechase PUD.
                  Kroger Marketplace - PUD-C (Planned Unit Development -
110514A  1-20-15  Commercial) - west of Olio Road between 116th Street and
                  118th Street)
020215   3-16-15  Granite Ridge PUD.
020215A  3-16-15  Amending Children’s Learning Adventure Fishers Marketplace
                  PUD.
102014A  3-16-15  Whelchel Springs PUD.
042015B  6-15-15  Rezone for Reserve at Lantern PUD.
042015C  6-15-15  Rezone for Wasson Nursery PUD.
042015E  7-22-15  Amending Saxony PUD.
072215A  12-21-15 Rezone for Prairie Guest House PUD.
0922115E 12-21-15 Rezone for Thoroughbred PUD.
101915B  12-21-15 Rezone for Gallacher PUD.
111615   1-19-16  Rezone for College Park Church PUD.
111615A  1-19-16  Rezone for IKEA Fishers PUD.
081715D  2-15-16  Approving text amendment for 4 Paws Lodge PUD.
122115A  2-15-16  Approving text amendment to Britton Falls PUD.
122115B  2-15-16  Approving text amendment to Vermillion PUD.
021516B  4-18-16  Extra Space Storage PUD.
051616E  6-20-16  Topgolf PUD.
062016   9-19-16  Britton Falls PUD.
062016A  8-15-16  Fishers PUD.
071816   9-19-16  Medtech PUD.
071816A  9-19-16  116th and Olio Road PUD.
081516   10-17-16 The Preserve at Bridger Pines PUD.
081516A  11-21-16 Bridger Pines II PUD.
121916C  2-20-17  Simply Dental PUD.
121916D  2-20-17  The Yard PUD.
022017A  3-20-17  Fishers PUD.
022717   3-20-17  Humane Society PUD.
032017D  3-20-17  Hamilton Proper PUD.
121916E  3-20-17  Legacy at Hunters Run PUD.
082117C  10-16-17 The Stations PUD.
071717D  10-16-17 Britton Falls PUD.
071717E  11-20-17 Rezone for Geist Manor PUD.
101617B  11-20-17 Saxony PUD.
101617J  11-20-17 Yard PUD.
101617C  12-18-17 Lake Meadows PUD.
121817A  2-19-18  Parkside PUD.
021918B  3-19-18  The Yard at Fishers District PUD.
R041618G 4-16-18  Approving a drive-thru use in the Yard at Fishers district
                  development.
052118G  5-21-18  The Overlook at White River PUD.
052118H  5-21-18  Amending the Thorpe Creek PUD to include ten more acres of
                  adjacent land.
052118I  5-21-18  Vive Exterior Design PUD.
071618D  7-16-18  Riverview Health PUD.
082018A  8-20-18  Amending Southwest Corner 116th/Olio Road PUD.
121718E  12-17-18 Ritchey Reserve PUD.
031819B  3-18-19  Stations at Fishers PUD.
041519D  4-15-19  Amending The Preserve at Arbor Pines PUD.
061719C  6-17-19  Crew Carwash PUD.
061719D  6-17-19  State Farm PUD.
061719E  6-17-19  Amending the Britton Falls PUD.
071519B  7-15-19  Approving a text amendment to Ord. 072496, the Reynolds PUD.
091619F  9-16-19  Cyntheanne Meadows PUD.
021720   2-17-20  Iron Pointe PUD.
– –  9-21-20  Amending the Grantham PUD (Ord. 051820B).
111620A  - -      Grantham PUD.
122120B  2-15-21  Cumberland Cottages PUD.
011921   2-15-21  The Preserve at Gray Eagle PUD.
011921B  3-15-21  Amending Ord. 081511C, Parkside PUD.
011921C  2-15-21  Amending the Saxony PUD area.
021521F  3-15-21  Amending Ord. 041210, Marina PUD.
101121D  11-15-21 Amending Ord. 020796B, Delaware Park PUD.
101022D  11-14-22 Sunbeam PUD
                  Designating real estate in part of the Northwest Quarter of
111422   1-17-23  Section 29, Township 18 North, Range 6 East, as within the
                  Cyntheanne Woods PUD.
061923B  9-18-23  Amending Ord. 1000996B, Sandstone/Gray Eagle PD.
                  Adopting a text amendment to the official zoning map for a
091823A  11-20-23 project known as the Cove at Thorpe Creek Planned Unit
                  Development District.
R052024A 5-20-24  Approving certain matters in connection to an amendment to
                  01R032124.
R052024G 5-20-24  Approving a certain commercial change of use permit.
052024B  9-9-24   Amending Ord. 050106A, Fall Creek Marketplace PUD.
090924G  11-18-24 Kid City Cyntheanne Road PUD.
                 
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS AND DEDICATIONS OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY
   (A):   VACATIONS.
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date   Description
         Passed
                Vacating the remaining unimproved portion of South School Street within the
080388   8-3-88 town, beginning at the northeast corner of Lot 22 in the Richard E. Harold’s
                first subdivision of the town, as per plat thereof recorded in Deed Record
                132, pages 359 and 360.
110393A  11-3-  Vacating a part of the right-of-way of Fall Road.
         93
090794C  9-7-94 Vacating a part of the right-of-way of 141st St.
102198F  10-21- Vacating Conner Creek Drive South.
         98
040703A  4-7-03 Vacating Old Olio Road and Annie Lane.
—      12-15- Vacating a Cumberland Road.
         03
122004C  1-3-05 Vacating a public right-of-way adjacent to Lot 9 of Geist Bay Estates.
                Vacating a public right-of-way which is part of the East Half of Section 2,
041805   5-2-05 Township 17 North, Range 4 East of the second Principal Meridian in Fall Creek
                Township.
080105B  8-1-05 Vacating a part of the right-of-way of 8624 South Street.
121806G  1-16-  Vacating the north-south public alley, the north right-of-way and the east
         07     right-of-way, all adjacent to 11787 Lantern Road.
         3-19-  Vacating a 10 foot drainage and utility easement on Lot 7 of Section IV of
031907   07     Windermere Village and a 10 foot drainage and utility easement on Lot 4-B of
                Section II of Windermere Village.
061807B  6-18-  Vacating a portion of platted easement located entirely within Lot 7 of the
         07     Stonegate subdivision.
Res.     7-16-  Vacating median which lies between one-way traffic lanes on Orchard Boulevard.
071607A  07
040708B  4-7-08 Vacating 117th Street from the east right-of-way line of Olio Road to the west
                right-of-way line of John Street.
050708A  5-7-08 Vacating a 15 foot utility easement in Geist Landing (formerly Shops at Geist
                Pointe).
010509   1-20-  Vacating a public right-of-way at SR 238 and Olio Road.
         09
         2-16-  Vacating a public right-of-way along the east line of Bangs Laboratories,
021609   09     located at 9025 Technology Drive from the south right-of-way line of
                Technology Drive to the north property line of Target Corporation.
030209   3-2-09 Vacating portions of 136th Street and Pennington Road.
092010   9-20-  Vacating portion of 136th Street at Olio Road.
         10
081511   8-15-  Vacating a portion of Pennington Road.
         11
071612B  7-16-  Vacating a blanket drainage, sewage and utility easement located on property
         12     known as Common Area 21 at 104th Street and Florida Road.
040113   4-1-13 Vacating a utility easement in Springs of Cambridge.
071513D  7-15-  Vacating a partial easement for the Saxony Subdivision, Phase 5, Lot #186.
         13
071513E  7-15-  Vacating a public right-of-way at 1 Municipal Drive.
         13
020314   2-3-14 Vacating a portion of public right-of-way for 104th Street.
                Vacating an alley extending north to south from the northern section of Maple
020314B  2-3-14 Street to the eastern border of property generally known as 11720 Maple
                Street; and grassy areas north and east of property generally known as 11787
                Lantern Road.
070714B  7-7-14 Vacating an access, utility, drainage and sewer easement located at the
                northeast corner of 141st Street and Promise Road PUD.
072114C  7-21-  Vacating two easements located at or about 11650 Lantern Road Municipal Drive.
         14
072114D  7-21-  Vacating a public right-of-way located at or about 8890 East 116th Street.
         14
072114E  7-21-  Vacating a two public rights-of-way located at or about property known as 6
         14     Municipal Drive, and vacating an easement at or about the same location.
020215B  2-2-15 Vacating utility easement.
031615A  3-16-  Vacating a public sewer, drainage, and utility easement located in the center
         15     of Lot 33 in the Woodlands at Windermere, Section III.
072215B  7-22-  Vacating a drainage, utility and sewer easement - Erlen Drive.
         15
092115F  9-21-  Vacating an alley lying between FRC property and 11674 Maple Drive.
         15
051616D  5-1-16 Vacating an easement and right-of-way.
081516B  8-15-  Vacating a right-of-way located north of North Street and west of Lantern
         16     Road.
081516D  8-15-  Vacating an easement located at 8700 North street.
         16
081516E  8-15-  Vacating easements located at 11671 Lantern Road and 11674 Maple Street.
         16
                Vacating an easement, extending north from North Street to an area immediately
1121116B 11-21- north of the east-west portion of Maple Street, for a portion of the George
         16     White Arm of the R.J. Craig Drain, to provide for the construction of a
                garage, a mixed-use building, and certain public infrastructure.
                Vacating a portion of a 20-foot-wide drainage and utility easement on Block D
         12-19- (future Block G) of the Fishers Corner Secondary Plat, to enable Thomas
121916A  16     English Real Estate Development to develop a retail building/restaurant on the
                northeast corner of Fishers Corner Boulevard and Commercial Drive, on property
                currently owned by the Target Corporation.
                Vacating a water line easement and portions of drainage and utility easements
121916F  12-19- within the Fishers Station Development, to enable Kite Realty Group to develop
         16     retail buildings/grocery store located northeast of 116th Street and
                Allisonville.
         12-19- Vacating right-of-way along Morgan Drive to allow for the development of
121916G  16     property located at the southwest corner of its intersection with Lantern
                Road.
051517C  5-15-  Vacating a portion of an easement at the southeast corner of E. 116th St. and
         17     IKEA Way, formally known as the Spring Dale Estates Subdivision.
051517D  5-15-  Vacating a right-of-way at the southeast corner of E. 116th St and IKEA Way.
         17
061818A  6-18-  Vacating right-of-way depicted in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 061818A.
         18
091718B  9-17-  Vacating right-of-way and easement depicted in Exhibits A, B and C attached to
         18     Ord. 091718B.
091718C  9-17-  Vacating easement and three area of right- of-way depicted in Exhibits A
         18     through F attached to Ord. 091718C.
091718D  9-17-  Vacating two areas of right-of-way depicted in Exhibits A, B and C attached to
         18     Ord. 091718D.
021819   2-18-  Vacating a portion of an easement located within Commerce Park Phase 1, lots 4
         19     and 5.
031819C  3-18-  Vacating part of street rights-of-way of Branham Drive, Pica Drive, Winter
         19     Meadow Drive and April Rose Drive in The Preserve at Arbor Pines, Section 1.
052019C  5-20-  Vacating areas of right-of-way on Municipal Drive.
         19
052019D  5-20-  Vacating areas of platted right-of-way in Kimberlin's Addition to the Town of
         19     Fishers Station.
052019E  5-20-  Vacating utility and right-of-way easement, parts of lots 7 and 8, Fishers
         19     Station.
081919A  8-19-  Vacating rights-of-way along Lantern Road, Meadows Drive and Meadowbrook
         19     Drive.
081919B  8-19-  Vacating utility easements along Lantern Road, Meadows Drive and Meadowbrook
         19     Drive.
102119B  10-21- Vacating a portion of an easement and right- of-way at the northwest corner of
         19     East 116th Street and Moore Street.
031521   3-15-  Vacating areas of right-of-way and the easement indicated in Exhibit A of Ord.
         21     031521.
041921A  5-17-  Vacating easements located at 0 Hague Road.
         21
022122B  3-21-  Vacating a portion of an easement within the Re-Plat of Delaware Park.
         22
022023B  2-20-  Vacating a portion of an easement within the Saxony Medical Park Secondary
         23     Plat.
041723A  4-17-  Vacating a portion of an easement within the Saxony Commercial District Phase
         23     3 Secondary Plat.
061923C  6-19-  Vacating a portion of an easement
         23
082123B  8-18-  Vacating a right-of-way generally located on the east side of Lantern Road,
         23     west of the Nickel Plate Trail.
100923B  10-9-  Vacating a portion of an easement within the Marketplace Towns Secondary Plat.
         23
031824B  3-18-  Vacating a portion of a utility easement within the Marsh Secondary Plat.
         24
041524C  4-15-  Vacating a sign easement within the Northeast Commerce Park.
         24
052024D  6-17-  Vacating areas of right-of-way indicated in Exhibit A of Ord. 052024D.
         24
               
 
 
   (B):   DEDICATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date   Description
         Passed
         8-19-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on 121st Street from Industrial
--       92     Developments International, Inc. for the widening of 121st Street east of
                Cumberland Road.
         9-23-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on Lantern Road from the American
--       92     Baptist Church for the widening of Lantern Road south of 126th Street to the
                entrance of Northeast Commerce Park.
--       2-17-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way of part of the southwest quarter of
         93     Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
         4-12-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on an irregular shaped parcel of land
--       93     approximately 278.46 feet by 32.7 feet equals .201 acres for Lantern Road
                reconstruction.
--       9-1-93 Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way of part of the southwest quarter of
                Section 24, Township 18 North, Range 4 East.
         10-6-  Acceptance of dedication of rights-of-way on a part of the Southeast Quarter of
--       93     Section 24, Township 18 North, Range 4 East, commencing at the Southeast corner
                of said Southeast Quarter Section, containing 0.41 acres, more or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of rights-of-way on a part of the Southwest Quarter of
         10-15- Section 19, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, commencing at the Northeast corner
--       93     of Lot Number 62 in Cottingham Estates Section Three as recorded in Plat Book 4,
                page 66 in the Office of the Hamilton County Recorder, containing 0.13 acres,
                more or less.
         3-20-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Northeast Quarter of
--       95     the Northeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East, beginning
                at the northeast corner of said Section 6.
         10-25- Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Southeast Quarter of
--       95     Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, commencing at southeast corner of
                said quarter, containing 0.170 acres, more or less.
         1-10-  Acceptance of dedication of a 40 foot ingress/egress easement in a part of the
--       96     Southwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, Hamilton
                County, Indiana.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Northwest Quarter of
--       6-1-96 Section 7, Township 17 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana,
                containing 0.735 acres, more or less.
                Granting permanent ingress/egress easement and a temporary construction easement
                for the post office property on part of the east half of the Southeast Quarter
--       7-9-96 of Section 36, Township 18 North, Range 4 East, also being part of the Fishers
                Town Complex as recorded in Document Number 9223941 in the Office of the
                Recorder, Hamilton County, Indiana.
--       7-16-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way as described in Exhibit A attached to
         96     the Dedication. (Hague Road)
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of Lot 4 of North by
--       7-25-  Northeast Retail Shopping Center, a subdivision in Hamilton County, Indiana
         96     recorded in Plat Cabinet 1, Slide 31 as instrument number 8912073 in the office
                of the Hamilton County Recorder, containing 0.008 acres, more or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on part of the south half of Section
                31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Delaware Township, Hamilton County,
                Indiana, containing 1.687 acres, more or less; part of the Northeast Quarter of
         9-26-  Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East, Delaware Township, Hamilton County,
--       96     Indiana, containing .55 acres, more or less; part of the north half of Section
                6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East, Delaware Township, Hamilton County, Indiana,
                containing 0.09 acre, more of less; part of the west half of the Southwest
                Quarter of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township,
                Hamilton County, Indiana, containing 1.5 acres, more or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of Block “B” of North By
--       10-4-  Northeast Retail Shopping Center, a subdivision in Hamilton County, Indiana
         96     recorded in Plat Cabinet 1, Slide 31, as instrument number 8912073 in the office
                of the Hamilton County Recorder, containing 0.034 acres, more or less.
         10-7-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Northeast Quarter of
--       96     the Southeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East, Delaware
                Township, Hamilton County, Indiana, containing 0.051 acres, more or less.
         12-13- Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Southeast Quarter of
--       96     the Southeast Quarter of Section 11, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, Delaware
                Township and containing 0.018 acres, more or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Southeast Quarter of
                Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, in Delaware Township, commencing at
         3-10-  the Southeast corner of Southeast Quarter of Section 31 and containing .6593
--       97     acres more or less. Also on a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 31,
                Township 18 North, Range 5 East, in Delaware Township, beginning on the East
                line of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 31 and containing .105 acres, more
                or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Southwest Quarter of
--       4-16-  Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 5 East of the Second Principal Meridian and
         97     commencing at the Northeast Corner of said quarter section and containing 18,885
                square feet.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a strip of land by parallel lines,
--       4-16-  35 feet wide on each side of the following described centerline, and being a
         97     part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4 East;
                commencing at the Northwest corner of the Northeast Quarter of said section.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of Lots 11 and 12 in the Town
--       4-16-  of Fishers, an Addition in Hamilton County for the purpose of expanding right-
         97     of-way for Maple Street, commencing at the Southeast corner of Lot 11 and
                containing 0.012 acres.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of Lot 11 in the Town of
--       4-16-  Fishers, an Addition in Hamilton County for the purpose of expanding right-of-
         97     way for an alley, commencing at the Southwest corner of Lot 11 and containing
                0.008 acres, more or less.
         7-16-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on Cumberland Road being part of the
--       97     Northwest Quarter of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek
                Township, containing 0.178 acres, more or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on East 116th Street being part of the
--       9-3-97 Southeast Quarter of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton
                County, containing 0.984 acres, more or less.
         9-17-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on East 126th Street and Cumberland
--       97     Road being part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 31, Town 18 North, Range 5
                East in Delaware Township containing 0.507 acres, more or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on East 116th Street being part of the
                South Half of Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Delaware Township
                containing 1.687 acres, more or less; also part of the Northeast Quarter of
--       9-26-  Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East in Delaware Township containing .55
         97     acres, more or less; also part of the North Half of Section 6, Township 17
                North, Range 5 East in Delaware Township containing 0.09 acres, more or less;
                also part of the West Half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 32, Township 18
                North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township containing 1.5 acres, more or less.
         11-5-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on Cumberland Road and 126th Street
--       97     being part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5
                East in Fall Creek Township containing 1.504 acres, more or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on East 116th Street and Fishers Pointe
         11-19- Boulevard being part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North,
--       97     Range 4 East in Delaware Township containing 0.827 acres, more or less; also
                part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4 East in
                Delaware Township containing 0.406 acres, more or less.
         12-10- Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on East 116th Street being part of the
--       97     Northeast Quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4 East in Delaware
                Township.
         12-10- Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on East 126th Street being part of the
--       97     West Half of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 30,
                Township 18 North, Range 5 East containing 0.613 acres, more or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on 141st Street being part of the
--       1-5-98 Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 19, Township 18 North,
                Range 5 East, commencing at the Southeast corner of the Northwest Quarter
                containing 0.12 acres, more or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on East 121st Street being part of the
--       3-19-  Northwest Quarter of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East of the Second
         98     Principal Meridian, commencing at the Southeast corner of the Northwest Quarter
                Section containing 0.514 acres, more or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on East 121st Street being part of the
--       3-19-  Northwest Quarter of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East of the Second
         98     Principal Meridian, beginning at the Southwest corner of the Southeast Quarter
                of the Northwest Quarter containing 0.380 acres more or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on East 141st Street being part of the
--       4-1-98 Southeast Quarter of Section 19, Township 18 North, Range 5 East of the Second
                Principal Meridian, commencing at the northeast corner of the Quarter section
                containing 38,886 sq. ft., more or less.
--       6-24-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on
         98
                East 106th Street being part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 7, Township 17
              North, Range 5 East of the Second Principal Meridian, commencing at the
                Northeast corner of the Northwest Quarter of Section 7 containing 13,142 sq.
                ft., more or less.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way at Statzer Park of the Southeast
--       9-9-99 Quarter and part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section
                28, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
         11-1-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on Hawthorne Ridge/1 of the Northwest
--       99     Quarter of Section 3, Township 17 North, Range 5 East of the Second Principal
                Meridian in Fall Creek Township, Hamilton County, Indiana.
         11-1-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on Hawthorne Ridge/2 of Northwest
--       99     Quarter of Section 3, Township 17 north, Range 5 East of the Second Principal
                Meridian in Fall Creek Township, Hamilton County, Indiana.
         11-1-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way at East 141st Street/East of SR 37/1 of
--       99     a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 19, Township 18 North, Range 05 East,
                of the Second Principle Meridian in Hamilton County, Indiana.
         11-1-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way at East 141st Street/East of SR 37/2 a
--       99     part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 19, Township 18 North, Range 05 East,
                of the Second Principal Meridian in Hamilton County, Indiana.
         1-20-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way at East 141st Street/West of SR 37/3 of
--       00     a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 19, Township 18 North, Range 5 East
                of the Second Principal Meridian, Hamilton County, Indiana.
         1-20-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way of Lantern Pointe Parkland of a part of
--       00     the Southeast Quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4 East in Hamilton
                County, Indiana.
--       6-18-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way at part of the Southwest Quarter of
         01     Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
--       7-9-01 Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way as described in Exhibit A attached to
                the Dedication (126th Street).
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Northeast Quarter of
--       7-9-01 Section 4, Township 17 North, Range 5 East of the Second Principal Meridian in
                Fall Creek Township, Hamilton County, Indiana.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Southeast Quarter of
--       8-6-01 Section 34, Township 18 North, Range 5 East located in Fall Creek Township,
                Hamilton County, Indiana.
--       8-6-01 Acceptance of dedication of a right-of-way within the Town of Fishers.
         8-20-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way at East 126th Street and promise Road
--       01     (Klepfer School Road) of part of the Southeast Corner of Section 28, Township 18
                North, Range 5 East, located in Fall Creek Township, Hamilton County, Indiana.
--       11-5-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way of part of the Southeast Quarter of
         01     Section 34, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
--       2-25-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way described in Exhibit A attached to the
         02     Dedication (Hamilton Hills Baptist Church).
                Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-way of part of the Southeast Quarter
--       4-1-02 of the Southeast Quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 4 East of the
                Second Principal Meridian, Hamilton County, Indiana.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way of part of the Northeast Quarter of
--       4-1-02 Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East in Delaware Township, Hamilton
                County, Indiana.
--       4-15-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way of part of the Southeast Quarter of
         02     Section 27, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, Hamilton County, Indiana.
--       1-6-03 Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of the East Half of
                Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
—      6-2-03 Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of the East Half of
                Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
—      6-2-03 Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of the Southeast Quarter
                of Section 28, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
—      6-2-03 Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of the Southeast Quarter
                of Section 28, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
—      6-2-03 Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of the Southeast Quarter
                of Section 28, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
—      10-6-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of the Northwest Corner of
         03     Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
—      10-20- Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of the Southeast Quarter
         03     of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
—      1-20-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of the Southeast Quarter
         04     of Section 35, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
—      2-16-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of the Northeast Quarter
         04     of Section 26, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
—      6-7-04 Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of Northwest Quarter of
                Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, Indiana.
         8-29-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of Southwest Quarter of
—      06     Section 33, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, Fall Creek Township, Hamilton
                County, Indiana (McMichael Preserve - 121st Street).
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of the South Half of the
—      1-3-06 Southeast Quarter and part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of
                Section 28, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, in Hamilton County, Indianan
                (Billericay Park).
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a portion of the Southeast Quarter
—      1-6-06 of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4 East in Hamilton County, Indiana (106th
                Street at USA Parkway).
—      3-17-  Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-way on a portion of Hamilton County
         08     Bridge #236/East 101 Street.
—      3-17-  Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-way on a portion of 126th Street/
         08     easement.
         3-15-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the West Half of the
R031510C 10     Southwest Quarter of Section 28, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton
                County, Indiana, Geist Christian Church.
         4-12-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the West Half of the
R041210  10     Southwest Quarter of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, Fall Creek
                Township, Hamilton County, Indiana, Sunbeam Development Corp.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Northwest Quarter of
R050510A 5-5-10 the Northeast Quarter of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, Hamilton
                County, Indiana, Hamilton Hills Baptist Church.
R101810A 10-18- Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Northwest Quarter of
         10     Section 20, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, Life Church.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Northeast Quarter of
R030711A 3-7-11 Section 25, Township 18 North, Range 4 East, Hamilton Southeastern North
                Delaware School Building Corporation.
R030711B 3-7-11 Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of Lot No. 52 in Lantern
                Farms, Section 2, Kurt A. and Olga V. Briggs.
R082012A 8-20-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Southeast Quarter of
         12     Section 9, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, Riverplace Land, LLC.
R082012B 8-20-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Southwest Quarter of
         12     Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, Riverplace WDS, LLC.
R082012C 8-20-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the Southwest Quarter of
         12     Section 10, Township 14 North, Range 4 East, Riverplace Shops, LLC.
                Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on a part of the west half of the
R090412A 9-4-12 Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 24, Township 18 North,
                Range 5 East, containing .11 acres more or less, Olio 238 Properties, LLC.
R091712A 8-29-  Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way on all of Block “I” as shown on the
         12     plat of Talon Bluff, containing 1.068 acres more or less, Talon Bluff, LLC.
R091712C 9-17-  Granting a utility and right-of-way easement on property commonly known as
         12     Common Area 21 at 104th Street and Florida Road, NineStar Connect.
071513F  7-15-  Acceptance and dedication of public right-of-way executed on behalf of the
         13     Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation.
111813B  11-18- Accepting the dedication of roads on behalf of the Geist Woods Homeowners’
         13     Association, Inc.
R050714B 5-7-14 Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-way (Fishers Corner Subdivision near
                Lantern Road and Commercial from Fifth Third Bank to the Town of Fishers).
R050714C 5-7-14 Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-way (Fishers Corner Subdivision near
                Lantern Road and Commercial from Yeager Properties to the Town of Fishers).
R050714D 5-7-14 Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-way (along 136th Street, part of the
                Sedona Woods subdivision).
070714C  7-7-14 Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-way (along Lantern Road).
072114B  7-21-  Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-way (along Lantern Road).
         14
080414   8-4-14 Accepting dedication of an easement and certain real and personal property
                located at or about the Heritage meadows subdivision.
R061614A 6-16-  Acceptance of dedication of a public right-of-way located along E. 116th Street.
         14
R072114E 7-21-  Acceptance and dedication of a public right-of-way located along 104th Street.
         14
110514D  11-5-  Accepting dedication of right-of-way along the Fishers Fire Station 96 Frontage,
         14     located at 15263 E. 104th Street.
R110514A 11-5-  Accepting dedication of right-of-way along 96th Street, fronting the proposed
         14     Bridger Pines Development, located east of Cyntheanne Road.
         11-5-  Accepting dedication of right-of-way along 104th Street, east of the Boulders
R110514B 14     Development and also along Cyntheanne Road, between 101st Street and 104th
                Street, part of the proposed Steeplechase Development.
R111714  11-17- Accepting dedication of right-of-way along 104th Street, west of Cyntheanne
         14     Road, fronting the proposed Steeplechase Development.
R121514D 12-15- Dedicating public right-of-way at 13401 Britton Park Road.
         14
R022216  2-22-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 9799 E 116th Street.
         16
R022216A 2-22-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 East 126th Street.
         16
R022216B 2-22-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 8400 East 126th Street.
         16
R072516  7-25-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 13476 Prairie Baptist Road, 0 Prairie
         16     Baptist Road, and 13294 Prairie Baptist Road.
R101016  10-10- Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 Florida Road.
         16
R121216A 12-12- Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 Center Street
         16
R122216B 12-22- Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way upon the completion of improvements to
         16     Reynolds Drive by Diamond Realty II, LLC, pursuant Resolution R112116D.
R031317A 3-13-  Dedication of real property as public right- of-way at Spring Dale Estates.
         17
R031317B 3-13-  Dedication of real property as public right- of-way at Spring Dale Estates.
         17
R031317C 3-13-  Dedication of real property as public right- of-way at Spring Dale Estates.
         17
R031317D 3-13-  Dedication of real property as public right- of-way at Spring Dale Estates.
         17
R042417C 4-24-  Dedication of a public right-of-way generally known as 11678 Moore Street.
         17
R042817  4-28-  Designating an Underground Utility Area for certain rights-of-way.
         17
R102317A 10-23- Dedication of a public right-of-way generally known as 11634 Maple Street.
         17
R022618B 2-26-  Dedication of property generally located at 12571 Reynolds Drive.
         18
R040918C 4-9-18 Dedication of a public right-of-way at 14067 Trade Center Drive (O’Reilly
                Automotive Stores, Inc.)
R100818  10-18- Dedication of public right-of-way at 7549 St. George Boulevard.
         18
R111318  11-13- Dedication of a public right-of-way at 11208 Garrick Street.
         18
R111318A 11-13- Dedication of a public right-of-way at 9295 E. 131st Street.
         18
R111318B 11-13- Dedication of a public right-of-way at 12201 Lantern Road.
         18
R012819B 1-28-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 Wynsom and 0 Wendessa Drive.
         19
R012819C 1-28-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 Luxor Chase.
         19
R021119A 2-11-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 E. 116th Street.
         19
R021119B 2-11-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 E. 116th Street.
         19
R021119D 2-11-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 South Street.
         19
R021119E 2-11-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 South Street.
         19
R021119F 2-11-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 South Street.
         19
R021119G 2-11-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 South Street.
         19
R021119H 2-11-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 South Street.
         19
R021119I 2-11-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 South Street.
         19
R021119J 2-11-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 South Street.
         19
R032519C 3-25-  Dedication of public right-of-way at 11227 Garrick Court.
         19
R051319A 5-13-  Dedication of a portion of 12487 Reynolds Drive and 12461 Reynolds Drive.
         19
R081219B 8-12-  Accepting dedication of certain real property generally located at 13365 Britton
         19     Park Road.
R111219  11-12- Accepting dedication of right-of-way generally located at 11413 Lantern Road.
         19
         
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date    Description
         Passed
7-3-72   7-3-72  Reclassifying lots numbered 11, 12, 13, 14, 23, 24, 25, 26, 38 39, from R-
                 2 to C-3.
8-7-72   8-7-72  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Section 6, Township 13 North,
                 Range 4 East, from C-3 to C-4.
2-4-74   2-4-74  Reclassifying Lot 13, Kimberlin’s Addition to the town, which property is
                 located at 8722 South Street, from R to C-1.
9-3-75   9-3-75  Rezoning a part of the southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 18 North,
                 Range 4 East, from R-1 to C-2.
ZA9-4-   3-1-76  Zoning a part of the southeast quarter of Section 35, Township 18 North,
75A              and Range 4 East as C-2.
3-1-76B  3-1-76  Zoning certain real estate as I-1.
9-7-77   9-7-77  Designating certain real estate as C-1.
1-8-79A  2-8-79  Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North,
                 Range 4 East, from R-1 to C-1.
2-19-79D 2-19-79 Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 18 North,
                 Range 4 East from R-1 to RA.
12-17-79 12-17-  Rezoning part of the southeast quarter of Section 25, Township 18 North,
         79      Range 4 East from PRD-10 and C-2 to C-4.
4-14-80- 4-14-80 Zoning part of the south half of the southwest quarter of Section 31,
A                Township 18 North, Range 5 East as C-3.
4-14-80B 4-14-80 Zoning part of the southwest quarter beginning at the northeast corner of
                 the southwest quarter of Section 25, Township 18 North, Range 4 East as RA.
4-6-81   5-4-81  Zoning certain real estate as R-4.
72583    10-3-83 Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North,
                 Range 4 East from R-4 to R-6.
81583    8-22-83 Rezoning part of the southeast and part of the northeast quarter of Section
                 36, Township 18 from R-3 to R-6.
061985   6-19-85 Rezoning Lot #42 in Salathiel Addition from R-4 to R-6.
073185   8-28-85 Rezoning part of Sections 1 and 12, Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
092585   9-25-85 Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section
                 2, Township 17 North, Range 4 East from I-1 to C-2.
112085   12-18-  Zoning part of Sections 1 and 12, Township 17 North, Range 4 East as PD.
         85
121885A  1-22-86 Zoning all of the north half of the southwest quarter of Section 31,
                 Township 18 North, Range 5 East as PD.
121786A  12-17-  Zoning part of the east half of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 4 East
         86      as R-3.
093086   9-30-86 Zoning certain real estate as PD.
031887-2 3-18-87 Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North,
                 Range 4 East from R-6 to R-5.
031887-  4-1-87  Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of Section 35, Township 18 North,
1A               Range 4 East from R-1 to R-2.
031887-  4-1-87  Rezoning part of the northeast quarter and part of the northwest quarter of
1B               Section 35, Township 18 North, Range 4 East from A(FP), R-1, and OS to R-2.
031887-  4-1-87  Rezoning part of Section 35, Township 18 North, Range 4 East from A(FP),
1C               RR, R-1, R-4, and C-1 to R-5.
031887-  4-1-87  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 18 North,
1D               Range 4 East from R-1 and R-4 to R-6.
031887-  4-1-87  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of Section 35, Township 18 North,
1E               Range 4 East from A(FP), RR, and R-1 to R-2.
031887-  4-1-87  Rezoning part of the southeast quarter and part of the southwest quarter of
1F               Section 35, Township 18 North, Range 4 East from R-1 and R-4 to C-3.
031887-  4-1-87  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter and part of the northeast quarter of
1G               Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 4 East from R-7 and C-2 to C-3.
031887-  4-1-87  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North,
1J               Range 4 East from R-4 to R-5.
031887-  4-1-87  Rezoning part of the northwest quarter and part of the northeast quarter of
1H               Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 4 East from R-7 and C-2 to R-7.
050687A  5-6-87  Rezoning part of Sections 24, 25, 26 and 35, all in Township 18 North,
                 Range 4 East from no category to OLHMD.
050687B  5-6-87  Rezoning part of the northeast quarter of Section 35, Township 18 North,
                 Range 4 from R-S to R-2.
06-03-87 6-3-87  Rezoning part of Section 36, Township 18 North, Range 4 East from R-2 to R-
                 3.
021788   2-17-88 Zoning part of the south half of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4 East
                 as R-4 and R-5.
030288   3-2-88  Zoning part of the south half of the northwest quarter of Section 1,
                 Township 17 North, Range 4 East as R-4.
040688-A 4-20-88 Rezoning part of the southeast quarter and part of the southwest quarter of
                 Section 35, Township 18 North, Range 4 East from R-5 and R-6 to C-3.
040688-B 4-20-88 Rezoning part of Section 35, Township 18 North, Range 4 East from R-1, RR,
                 OS, and R-5 to R5-C.
040688-C 4-20-88 Rezoning part of the north half of Section 35, Township 18 North, Range 4
                 East from R-1, R-2, and OS to R-2.
042088   4-20-88 Zoning part of the northwest quarter and part of the northeast quarter of
                 Section 36, Township 18 North, Range 4 East as R-3.
042088A  4-20-88 Zoning part of Section 36, Township 18 North, Range 4 East as R-4.
042088B  4-20-88 Zoning part of the south half of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4 East
                 as C-2.
061688   6-15-88 Zoning certain real estate as PD.
08-17-88 9-17-88 Zoning part of the north half of Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East
                 as PD.
101988   10-19-  Zoning part of the southeast quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range
         88      4 East as R-4.
110288B  12-7-88 Zoning the airport as MA.
011889   1-18-89 Rezoning part of Section 35, Township 18 North, Range 4 East from R-6 to C-
                 1.
011889-A 1-18-89 Rezoning part of Section 35, Township 18 North, Range 4 East from R-6 to C-
                 3.
021589   2-21-89 Rezoning part of the west half of the southeast quarter of Section 36,
                 Township 18 North, Range 4 East from R-6 to C-1.
050389   5-3-89  Rezoning part of Section 35, Township 18 North, Range 4 East from R-1 to R-
                 5.
062189A  9-20-89 Zoning five parcels as follows:
               (a) Hair property and Fuller property, R-3
               (b) Beaver property and Eastridge-Haskett
               property, R-3
               (c) Anderson property, R-4
               (d) Allen property and Beaver property, R-4
               (e) Anderson property, R-5
071989B  7-19-89 Zoning part of the northwest quarter of Section 31, Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East as R-5.
        081689A 9-10-89Rezoning part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of
                 Section 2, Township 17 North, Range 4 East from C-2 to C-3.
081689B  9-10-89 Rezoning part of the south half of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range 4
                 East from C-2 to R-5.
                 Rezoning part of the north half of the southeast quarter and a part of the
062189A  9-20-89 south half of the northeast quarter of Section 25, Township 10 North, Range
                 4 East.
100489   10-4-89 Zoning part of the northwest quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range
                 4 East as I-1.
070689A  11-1-89 Zoning part of the southwest quarter of Section 2, Township 17 North, Range
                 4 East as R-5.
                 Zoning certain property, part of the southwest quarter of the northwest
122089A  2-6-90  quarter of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, containing 29.34
                 acres as PD.
122089B  2-6-90  Zoning certain property, as set out in Exhibit A attached to Ord. 122089B
                 as PD.
092089C  11-1-89 Zoning part of the northeast quarter and part of the southeast quarter in
                 Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East as FP.
122089D  1-17-90 Zoning 18 parcels of real estate; 12 parcels zoned as R-3, 2 parcels zoned
                 R-4, 1 parcel zoned R-5-C, 1 parcel each zoned C-1, C-2 and OS.
011790   2-21-90 Rezoning part of the east half of Section 3, Township 17 North, Range 4
                 East from R3 to R3-C.
                 Zoning certain territory beginning at a point on the west line of the
041890B  5-16-90 southwest quarter of Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East which is
                 1589.18 feet northerly of the southwest corner thereof which is 1704.18
                 feet northerly of the southwest corner thereof as PD.
051690A  6-20-90 Zoning part of the southwest quarter of Section 31, Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East containing 17.43 acres and PD.
051690C  7-18-90 Zoning the Arzelle Reynolds Property containing 40.067 acres as I-1.
071890A  9-5-90  Zoning part of the northeast quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range
                 4 East containing 57.428 acres, more or less, as C-1, C-2 and R5C.
100390A  10-3-90 Zoning three parcels in the northeast quarter of Section 1, Township 17
                 North, Range 4 East as C-3.
                 Zoning Circle Heights, Second Section, together with a part of the
120590G  12-5-90 northwest quarter of Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East containing
                 13.691 acres, more or less.
020691   3-6-91  Rezoning six pieces of real estate:
               (a) A part of the southeast quarter of Section 8, Township 17 North, Range
                 5 East from R4 and C2 to C2.
                 (b) A part of the west half of the southeast quarter of Section 8, Township
               17 North, Range 5 East containing 14.38 acres more or less from R4, OS and
                 C2 to C1.
                 (c) A part of the west half of the southeast quarter of Section 8, Township
               17 North, Range 5 East containing 6.64 acres more or less from R4 and C2 to
                 OS.
               (d) A part of the south half of Section 8, Township 17 North, Range 5 East
                 containing 35.62 acres more or less from R3, R4, C2 and R5-C to R5-C.
                 (e) A part of the west half of the southeast quarter of Section 8, Township
               17 North, Range 5 East containing 42.82 acres more or less from R3, R4, C1,
                 C2 and OS to R4.
               (f) A part of the west half of the southeast quarter of Section 8, Township
                 17 North, Range 5 East containing 6.15 acres more or less from R4 to R3.
022091A  3-20-91 Zoning lots 1 through 26 in Section 1 of the Tremont at Castleton
                 Subdivision as R-1.
032091A  6-19-91 Zoning territory beginning at a point on the west line of Section 31,
                 Township 18 North, Range 5 East as R-5.
060591B  6-19-91 Zoning part of the northeast quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
                 Range 4 East as C-1.
060591D  6-19-91 Zoning territory beginning at a point 1,308 feet east and 425 feet south of
                 the northwest corner of Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East as R-5.
100291A  12-17-  Zoning part of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 2,
         91      Township 17 North, Range 4 East as R-4.
110691B  11-20-  Zoning the following territory as C-3:
         91
               (1) Part of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 11,
                 Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
               (2) Part of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 11,
                 Township 17 North, Range 4 East.
012292A  1-22-92 Zoning Lot 30 in the second section of Spring Dale Estates as R-1.
121791B  1-22-92 Zoning part of the southeast quarter of Section 36, Township 18 North,
                 Range 4 East, as C-3.
030492A  3-18-92 Zoning parcels of property as R-3C, R-5C and C-2.
030492B  3-18-92 Rezoning parcels of real estate from R-3 to R-3C, R-5C to R-4C, and R-4 to
                 R-5C.
060392A  7-1-92  Zoning two pieces of real estate as PD:
               (1) Part of the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 32,
                 Township 18 North, Range 5 East.
               (2) Part of the south half of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East
                 as Parcel B.
061792   7-17-92 Zoning part of the northwest quarter and part of the northeast quarter of
                 Township 17 North, Range 4 East as C-3.
070192A  7-15-92 Designation of certain real estate as the Meadows Neighborhood District.
080592A  8-19-92 Rezoning part of southeast quarter of Section 8, Township 17 North, Range 5
                 East as R3C.
080592C  8-19-92 Rezoning part of west half of southeast quarter of Section 8, Township 17
                 North, Range 5 East as R4C.
0880592F 9-9-92  Rezoning part of southeast and northeast quarters of Section 30 and part of
                 northeast quarter of Section 31, in Township 18 North, Range 5 East as R4C.
                 Rezoning part of northeast quarter of southwest quarter and part of
081992   8-19-92 southeast quarter of northwest quarter of Section 8, Township 17 North,
                 Range 5 East as R4C.
                 Rezoning part of southeast and northeast quarters of Section 30 and part of
090992   9-9-92  northeast quarter of Section 31, all in Township 18 North, Range 5 East as
                 R5C.
110492E  12-28-  (1) Zoning two parcels of real estate in the west half of the southeast
         92      quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East as C-2.
               (2) Zoning three parcels of real estate in the southwest quarter of the
                 northeast quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East as R-6.
                 (3) Zoning two acres of the southwest corner of the northwest quarter of
               the northeast quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East as R-
                 3.
               (4) Zoning three parcels of real estate in the southwest quarter of the
                 northeast quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East as R-3.
               (5) Designating two strips of land in Section 10, Township 17 North, Range
                 4 East as part of the public right-of-way.
110492G  11-18-  Zoning part of the northeast quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
         92      Range 4 East as MA, Municipal Airport District.
110492I  12-28-  Zoning two parcels of real estate in the northeast quarter of Section 10,
         92      Township 17 North, Range 4 East as C-2.
120992A  12-28-  Zoning part of the southeast quarter of Section 1, Township 17 North, Range
         92      4 East as I-1.
122892   12-28-  Rezoning part of the southwest quarter of the northeast quarter of Section
         92      8, Township 17 North, Range 5 East from R-3 to R-3C.
122892A  1-6-92  Rezoning part of the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section
                 11, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, from C4 to PD.
020393-A 2-17-93 (1) Zoning part of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
                 Section 6, Township 17 North, Range 5 East, to R-5C.
                 (2) Zoning part of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
               Section 6 and part of the northwest quarter of the southwest quarter of
                 Section 5, Township 17 North, Range 5 East, from R-3C.
030293A  3-24-93 Zoning property commonly known as 9030 East 96th Street as R-3.
010693A  5-5-93  Zoning the 1980 Phase II Hamilton Proper as PD.
020393C  5-5-93  Zoning the Sigmond property as R3C, R4C and R5C.
040793B  5-26-93 Zoning Blankenship property, lot 13 of Circle Heights Addition in southwest
                 quarter of Section 31 as R-3.
040793D  5-5-93  Zoning the Archer property in the southeast quarter of Section 32 as R-3.
050593   5-5-93  Rezoning the Sunbeam Development in the northwest quarter of Section 7 from
                 PD with R4 standards to PD with R4C standards.
050593B  5-26-93 Zoning the Whitmire property in the northeast quarter of Section 8, west
                 side of Mollenkopf Road to R-3C
062393   6-23-93 Rezoning the Andrews property in the southeast quarter of section 6, west
                 side of Cumberland Road from R3C to Flood Plain.
072193   7-21-93 Zoning four parcels of real estate:
               (1) Part of the west half of the southeast quarter of Section 8, Township
                 17 North, Range 5 East, containing 4.73 acres more or less, as OS.
               (2) Part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 8,
                 Township 17 North, Range 5 East, containing 0.14 acres more or less, as C1.
               (3) Part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 8,
                 Township 17 North, Range 5 East, containing 0.29 acres more or less, as C2.
               (4) Part of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 8,
                 Township 17 North, Range 5 East, containing 2.27 acres more or less, as C2.
         11-17-  Zoning property that is a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 1,
102093   93      Township 17 North, Range 4 East, beginning on the South line of the
                 Southeast Quarter, classifying it as I1, initial zone district.
         11-17-  (1) Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter Section 10, Township 17 North,
110393   93      Range 4 East, commencing at the Northeast corner of said Quarter section as
                 R-3.
                 (2) Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter Section 10, Township 17 North,
               Range 4 East, commencing at a stone marking the Northwest corner of said
                 section as PD-R.
                 (3) Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
               Range 4 East, commencing at a point on the East line of said section as PD-
                 R.
               (4) Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
                 Range 4 East, commencing at a point on the Eastline of said section as OS.
                 (5) Zoning all that tract of land in Delaware Township in Hamilton County
               beginning at the Southwest corner of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4
                 East, as R-3.
               (6) Zoning all that tract of land commencing at the Southwest corner of
                 Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East as PD-C.
                 (7) Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter and part of the Southwest Quarter
               of Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, beginning at a point on the
                 East line of said section as R-3.
                 Zoning a parcel of land lying within the Northwest Quarter of Section 7,
120193A  12-15-  Township 17 North, Range 5 East, the Northeast Quarter and the Southeast
         93      Quarter of Section 12, Township 17 North, Range 4 East of the Second
                 Principal Meridian as a PD District.
121593   12-15-  Zoning Block C and D in North by Northeast Business Park Section One as per
         93      plat thereof from C-1 to C-3.
                 Zoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 19, Township 18 North,
010694A  1-19-94 Range 5 east and part of the east half of Section 24, Township 18 North,
                 Range 4 east as R-4.
010694B  1-19-94 Zoning a part of the East half of Section 9, Township 17 North, Range 4
                 East containing 136.00 acres as R-3 and FP.
               Zoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
                 Range 4 east containing 16.89 acres as R-3 and FP.
                 Zoning certain real estate beginning at a point eight rods west of the
010694C  1-19-94 Southeast corner of the Southeast Quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East as R5-C.
010694D  1-19-94 West half of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 30,
                 Township 18 North, Range 5 east, containing 20 acres as R-3.
020294A  3-2-94  Zoning the following real estate as R-3:
                 Zoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 17 North,
               Range 5 East, also being a part of the first re-plat of a part of Hawthorn
                 Hills;
                 Also a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 4, and a part of the
                 Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 4, Township 17 North,
               Range 5 East, beginning at the Southwest corner of said Southwest Quarter
                 and running north 00 degrees 00 minutes 18 seconds west and along the west
                 line on and along the east line of the Southwest Quarter 535.70 feet;
                 Also a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 8, Township 17 North, Range
               5 East, beginning at the Northeast corner of said Quarter Section and
                 running South on and along the East line of said Quarter Section a distance
                 of 16.50 feet;
                 Also a part of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of the
               Northeast Quarter of Section 9, Township 17 North, Range 5 East commencing
                 at the Northeast corner of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter
                 of the Northeast Quarter of Section 9, Township 17 North, Range 5 East.
020294C  3-2-94  Zoning a certain parcel of land located west of and adjacent to Cumberland
                 Road approximately 989.79 feet north of East 106th Street from R-1 to R-4.
                 Zoning a certain parcel of land beginning at the Northeast corner of
020294D  3-2-94  Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 east, and running west 2.035 feet
                 containing 1,886.57 feet as PD.
                 Zoning a part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North,
020294E  3-2-94  Range 5 east commencing at the Southeast corner of the Northeast Quarter of
                 Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 5 East as R-4.
020294F  3-2-94  Zoning portions of several properties being a part of Section 10, Township
                 17 North, Range 4 East as R-3, R-5C, R-6 and PD-C.
                 Zoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section
030294A  3-16-94 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 east in Delaware Township commencing at the
                 Northeast corner of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
                 Section 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 east in Hamilton County as PD.
030294C  3-2-94  Zoning certain real estate known as the Fishers Trade Center as PD.
                 Zoning part of the West Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 25,
033094A  4-20-94 Township 18 North, Range 4 East commencing at the Southwest Corner of said
                 quarter section as R3.
                 Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 31, Township 18 North,
033094H  4-20-94 Range 5 East commencing at the Northwest Corner of said quarter section as
                 PD.
                 Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 31, Township 18 North,
033094J  4-20-94 Range 5 East commencing at the Northwest Corner of said quarter section as
                 PD.
                 Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 5,
050494A  6-8-94  Township 17 North, Range 5 East, beginning at the Northwest Corner of said
                 quarter section as C2.
050494B  6-8-94  Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 17 North, Range
                 5 East as FP.
050494C  6-8-94  Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 17 North, Range
                 5 East, beginning at the Northwest Corner of said quarter section as R3(C).
050494E  6-8-94  Zoning part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 6, Township 17 North, Range
                 5 East as R-3.
072094A  8-17-94 Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 19, Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East as R3.
090794A  2-15-95 Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section
                 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East as C-1 and PD.
100594A  12-19-  (1)Zoning portions of several parcels of real estate being part of Section
         94      34, Township 18 North, Range 5 East as R-3.
               (2)Zoning part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 34, Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East, containing 15 acres, more or less, as C-3.
               Zoning part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 34, Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East, containing 5 acres, more or less, as C-1.
               Zoning part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 34, Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East, containing 7.19 acres, more or less, as FP.
         12-19-  Zoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section
120794A  94      10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, containing 1.50 acres, more or less,
                 as C-1.
012595C  1-25-95 Zoning portions of several parcels of real estate (being more fully
                 described on Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 012595C) as PD.
                 Zoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section
021595A  3-15-95 10, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, containing 4.52 acres, more or less,
                 as PD.
                 Zoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North,
021595C  4-19-95 Range 5 East, containing 9.57 acres, more or less, as OS Open Space
                 District.
                 Zoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section
               30, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, containing 15.58 acres, more or less,
                 as C1 Commercial District.
                 Zoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 20 and the Northwest
                 Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 20, and a part of the Northwest
                 Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 29 all in Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East of Second Principal Meridian, containing 230.342 acres, more
030195B  4-19-95 or less; also a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 19, Township 18
                 North, Range 5 East in Delaware Township, containing 22.385 acres; also a
                 part of the North half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 20, Township 18
                 North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township, containing 60.7 acres as R3,
                 R3-C, R4, and R4-C Districts.
031595B  7-19-95 Zoning classification of real estate described on Exhibit A, attached to
                 Ordinance 031595B, is hereby designated I-1.4 Industrial District.
               Zoning classification of real estate described on Exhibit B, attached to
                 Ordinance 031595B, is hereby designated C-3 Commercial District.
                 Zoning classification of real estate described on Exhibit C, attached to
               Ordinance 031595B, is hereby designated PD, Britton Industrial Park Planned
                 Development District.
                 Zoning classification of real estate described on Exhibit D, attached to
               Ordinance 031595B, is hereby designated PD, Britton Industrial Park Planned
                 Development District.
                 Zoning classification of real estate described on Exhibit E, attached to
               Ordinance 031595B, is hereby designated R-3 Single Family Residential
                 District.
               The classification of Britton Park PD is attached as Exhibit F of Ordinance
                 031595B.
               The classification of Nuckols PD is attached as Exhibit G of Ordinance
                 031595B.
                 Zoning a part of the East Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 29,
051095A  6-7-95  Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township, containing 37.062,
                 more or less, as R3-C.
                 Zoning a part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 29, Township 18 North,
               Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township, containing 26.803, more or less, as
                 R4-C.
                 Zoning a part of the East Half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 29,
                 Township 18 North, Range 5 East; a part of the Northeast Quarter and the
                 North Half of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 29,
051095B  6-7-95  Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township; also, 20 acres of
                 the West side of 60 acres of the north end of the west half of the
                 Southeast Quarter of Section 29, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Fall
                 Creek Township, as R-3, R3-C, R-4, and R-4C Zoning Districts.
                 Zoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 19, Township 18 North,
051095E  6-7-95  Range 5 East and part of the East Half of Section 24, Township 18 North,
                 Range 4 East, as R-4 Zoning District.
               Zoning a part of the West Half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 19,
                 Township 18 North, Range 5 East, as R-5 Zoning District.
               Zoning a part of the East Half of Section 24, Township 18 North, Range 4
                 East, as C-1 Zoning District.
                 Zoning classification of the real estate described in Exhibit A attached to
060795   6-21-95 Ordinance 060795 shall be re-designated from I-1 Zoning District to C-
                 1 Zoning District.
080995A  8-23-95 Zoning a part of the South Half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 2,
                 Township 17 North, Range 4 East as C-2 Commercial District.
                 Zoning classification of real estate described on Exhibit A, attached to
062195   10-4-95 Ordinance 062195, is designated as C-3 Commercial, R-3 Single Family
                 Residential and Carter Planned Development Districts.
                 Zoning classification of real estate described on Exhibit B, attached to
               Ordinance 062195, is designated as R-6 Multi-Family Residential, R-3, R-
                 4 and R-4C Single Family Residential and I-1.5 Enclosed Industrial
                 Districts.
                 Zoning classification of real estate described on Exhibit C, attached to
               Ordinance 062195, is designated as the Gray Eagle Planned Development and
                 Sandstone Planned Development (part).
               Zoning classification of real estate described on Exhibit D, attached to
                 Ordinance 062195, is designated as R-3 Single Family Residential District.
090695A  10-4-95 Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
                 Ordinance 090695A, is designated as C-2 Commercial District.
               Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit B, attached to
                 Ordinance 090695A, is designated as R-6 Residential District.
               Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit C, attached to
                 Ordinance 090695A, is designated as R-3 Residential District.
               Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit D, attached to
                 Ordinance 090695A, is designated as R-4 Residential District.
100495A  10-18-  Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
         95      Ordinance 100495A, is designated as R-3 Single Family Residential District.
100495B  10-4-95 Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
                 Ordinance 100495B, is designated as PD Planned Development District.
122095A  1-24-96 Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
                 Ordinance 123095A, is designated as R-3 Single Family Residential District.
011096C  2-21-96 Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
                 Ordinance 011096C, is designated as PD Planned Development District.
020796B  2-21-96 Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
                 Ordinance 020796B, is designated as PD Planned Development District.
                 Zoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
020796C  3-6-96  Range 4 East of the Second Principal Meridian and beginning at the
                 Northeast corner of the Northwest Quarter as R-3C.
                 Zoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 10, Township 17 North,
               Range 4 East of the Second Principal Meridian and beginning at the
                 Northeast corner of the Northwest Quarter as R-5C.
040396   4-17-96 Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
                 Ordinance 040396, is designated as C-1 Commercial District.
052296D  5-22-96 Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
                 Ordinance 052296D, is designated as R-3 Single Family Residential District.
080796A  8-19-96 Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
                 Ordinance 080796A, is designated as R3 Single Family Residential.
090496A  9-25-96 Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
                 Ordinance 090496A, is designated as R3-C Single Family Residential.
071096A  10-23-  Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
         96      Ordinance 071096A, is reclassified from PD and R3 to R4-C.
092596C  10-23-  Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
         96      Ordinance 092596C, is designated as R3 Single Family Residential.
100996D  10-23-  Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A, attached to
         96      Ordinance 100996D, is changed from PD-C and R3 to C-3.
120496   12-18-  Amending Ordinance 010693A, passed 5-5-93 as to real estate described in
         96      Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 120496.
010897   2-5-97  9574 East 126th Street is classified as R-7.
020597B  3-5-97  Zoning part of the Northwest and Northeast Quarter of Section 32, Township
                 18 North, Range 5 East and containing 26.000 acres as R-7.
               Zoning part of the Northeast Quarter of Section 32, Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East and containing 30.597 acres as R-3C.
               Zoning Part of the Northeast and Northwest Quarter of Section 32, Township
                 18 North, Range 5 East and containing 18.681 acres as R-5C.
                 Zoning the North Half of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of
                 Section 28, and the South Half of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest
031997A  4-16-97 Quarter of Section, and the South Three Quarters of the Southeast Quarter
                 of the Northeast Quarter of Section 29, and the North One Quarter of the
                 Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 29 containing 80.644
                 acres more or less as R-4C.
                 Zoning part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 19, Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East of the Second Principal Meridian and commencing at the
                 Northeast corner of said Quarter Section and containing 31.384 acres from
041697   5-7-97  R-3 to R-4C; and part of the Southeast Quarter of Section 19, Township 18
                 North, Range 5 East of the Second Principal Meridian and commencing at the
                 Northeast corner of said Quarter Section and containing 24.536 acres from
                 R-3 to R-5C.
                 Zoning part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 7, Township 17 North, Range
060497C  6-25-97 5 East, beginning at the Northwest corner of said Quarter Section and
                 containing 16.070 acres as R-4.
         10-15-  Zoning classification of real estate described as Tract 2B of a replat of
100197A  97      tract 2 in Whitnor Subdivision is designated as R-3, Single Family
                 Residential District.
                 Zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A (attached
100197C  11-19-  thereto) shall be initially zoned R5-C, Residential District and the real
         97      estate described in Exhibit B (attached thereto) shall be initially zoned
                 R4-C, Residential District.
                 Zoning classification of part of the East Half of the Northwest Quarter of
110597E  11-19-  Section 29, Township 18 North, Range 5 East is changed from R-3 to R-4,
         97      Single Family Residential and designated R-4C, Single Family Residential -
                 Cluster District.
                 Zoning classification of part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southeast
010798G  1-21-98 Quarter of Section 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, beginning at a
                 point on the north line of the Southeast Quarter containing 8.92 acres more
                 or less as OS, Open Space District.
                 Zoning classification of part of the South half of the Northeast Quarter of
                 Section 7, Township 17 North, Range 5 East, commencing at the Southeast
                 corner of the Northeast Quarter containing 4.68 acres more or less as R-3,
010798K  1-21-98 Single Family Residential District. Also zoning classification of part of
                 the South half of the Northeast Quarter of Section 7, Township 17 North,
                 Range 5 East, commencing at the Southeast corner of the Northeast Quarter
                 containing 0.23 acres more or less as R-3, Single Family Residential
                 District.
                 Zoning classification of part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 20,
010798A  2-4-98  Township 18 North, Range 5 East, beginning at the Northwest corner of
                 Northwest Quarter Section as Residential District R5C.
                 Zoning classification of the Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of
               Section 20, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township,
                 beginning 1344.0 feet East of the Southwest Corner of the Northwest Quarter
                 containing 40.5 acres, more or less as Residential District R4C.
                 Zoning classification of part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest
040198E  5-6-98  Quarter of Section 8 Township 17 North Range 5 East, Fall creek Township,
                 Lot 4 of Cumberland Ridge Subdivision as R-3, Single Family Residential
                 District.
                 Zoning classification of part of the Southwest Quarter and part of the
                 Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 36, Township 18
040198G  5-6-98  North, Range 5 East, commencing at the Southwest corner of the Southwest
                 Quarter containing 10.00 acres more or less as R-3, Single Family
                 Residential District.
                 Zoning classification of part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 5,
040198A  5-20-98 Township 17 North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township, commencing at the
                 Northeast corner of the Quarter Section containing 1.010 acres, more or
                 less as Residential District R3(c).
                 Zoning classification of part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest
040198C  5-20-98 Quarter of Section 34, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, commencing at the
                 Southeast corner of the Quarter Section as R-3, Single Family District.
                 Zoning classification of part of the East Half of the Southeast Quarter of
                 Section 29, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, located in Fall Creek
050698C  5-20-98 Township, commencing at the Northwest corner of the East Half of the
                 Southeast Quarter, containing 29.150 acres, more or less as R3-C,
                 Residential District.
                 Zoning classification of part of the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest
                 Quarter of Section 28, Township 18 North, Range 5 East located in Fall
               Creek Township, beginning at a railroad spike at the Northeast corner of
                 the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter containing 34.346 acres,
                 more or less as R3-C, Residential District.
                 Zoning classification of part of the South Half of the Southwest Quarter of
060398A  6-24-98 Section 36, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, in Fall Creek Township,
                 commencing at the Southwest corner of the Quarter Section containing 14.093
                 acres more or less as R3-C, Single Family Residential - Cluster District.
                 Zoning classification of part of the West Half of Section 36, Township 18
                 North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township, commencing at the Southwest
060398B  6-24-98 corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Section containing 83.864 acres,
                 more or less changed from R3, Single Family Residential District to R3-C,
                 Single Family Residential - Cluster District.
                 The following property is the exception to the above entry with no zoning
                 classification change: Part of the South Half of the Southwest Quarter of
060398B  6-24-98 Section 36, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, in Fall Creek Township,
                 commencing at the Southwest corner of the Quarter Section containing 14.093
                 acres more or less.
110498A  11-18-  Zoning classification of part of the southwest quarter of Section 7,
         98      Township 17 North, Range 5 East as R-4, Single Family Residential District.
110498B  11-18-  Zoning classification of part of Section 28, Township 18 North, Range 5
         98      East as R-3, Single Family Residential District.
                 Zoning Classification of a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 33,
                 Township 18 North, Range 5 East of the Second Principal Meridian, Fall
020399C  4-7-99  Creek Township, less the land commencing at the Northwest corner of said
                 Northwest Quarter a distance of 37.91 feet, containing, less said
                 exception, 21.057 acres, more or less.
                 Zoning classification of the west half of the Southeast Quarter of Section
                 36, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Hamilton County, and the Northeast
                 Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section one, Township 17 North, Range 5
                 East, and a part of the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of
040799B  5-5-99  Section one, Township 17 North, Range 5 East, and 21 acres of uniform width
                 off of the South side of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
                 Section 36, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, and 19 acres of uniform width
                 off of the North side of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
                 Section 36, Township 18 North, Range 5 East.
                 Zoning parts of the Southeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section
040799D  5-5-99  35, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, commencing at points on the East line
                 of said quarter-quarter section, and a part of the East half of the
                 Southeast Quarter of Section 35, Township 18 North, Range 5 East.
                 Zoning part of the Northeast Quarter and the Northwest Quarter of Section
070699C  9-7-99  12, Township 17 North, Range 4 East, commencing at the Southeast corner of
                 said section, containing 3.603 acres, more or less.
                 Zoning two parts of the Northwest Quarter of Section 7, Township 17 North,
070699A  9-20-99 Range 5 East, Delaware Township, beginning at points at the Northeast
                 corner and on the North line of the Northwest Quarter of Section 17.
                 Zoning Lot 5 (five acres), Lot 6 (five acres), Lot 7 (3.25 acres), and a
120699A  3-20-00 part of Lot 7 (1.75 acres) in the William H. Dye Subdivision, as
                 Residential District R-2.
                 Zoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 19, Township 18 North,
030600A  7-17-00 Range 5 East (Lot 1 in Cottingham Northeast), containing 2.19 acres, as
                 Residential District R-3.
                 Zoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 20, Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township, containing 7.949 acres, more or less
032000A  10-2-00 and also the full width of the right-of-way on either side of the
                 centerline of 141st Street beginning at the Southeast corner, Northwest
                 Quarter, Section 20, Township 18 North, Range 5 East pursuant to IC 36-4-3-
                 2.5, as Cumberland Place R4-C.
                 Zoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section
                 29, Township 18 North, Range 5 East (131st Street), containing 40 acres,
032000C  5-1-00  more or less, excepting parts of the Northeast Quarter of Section 29,
                 Township 18 North, Range 5 East, containing 3.3 and 6.4 acres, more or
                 less, as Residential District R4.
                 Zoning Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9., and 10 in the Plat of the Town of
                 New Britton and also a part of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest
                 Quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 5 East beginning 132 feet
                 west of the Southeast corner of the Northwest Quarter of Section 30,
                 Township 18 North, Range 5 East and on the south line thereof and also
                 beginning 660 feet north of the Southeast corner of the Southwest Quarter
032000G  8-14-00 of the Northwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 5 East and
                 on the east line thereof, containing .63 acres, more or less; a part of the
                 Northwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, beginning
                 at the corner of William Spoors lot and also commencing at a point 357.1
                 feet west of the Southeast corner of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest
                 Quarter of Section 30, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, as Residential
                 District R3.
         10-16-  Zoning a part of the west half of the Northwest Quarter, Section 29,
051500A  00      Township 18 North, Range 5 East (Jackson Annexation), containing 11.355
                 acres more or less, as Residential District R4-C.
                 Zoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 31, Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East, Delaware Township, also being a part of lands now or formerly
                 owned by Equilon Enterprises, L.L.C. and Dental Services, L.L.C.,
                 containing .334 acres, more or less; a cut-out of part of the Southwest
070100B  8-14-00 Quarter , Section 31, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, containing 1.22
                 acres, more or less; a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 31,
                 Township 18 North, Range 5 East, also being a part of lands now or formerly
                 owned by Equilon Enterprises, L.L.C. , containing .154 acres, more or less,
                 as Town Center District 4.
                 Zoning a part of the East Half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 27,
091100G  9-25-00 Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township, containing 24.988
                 acres, more or less, as Residential District R4.
         10-16-  Zoning a part of the Southwest Quarter and the Southeast Quarter Section
081400B  00      27, Township 18 North, Range 5 in Fall Creek Township, containing 199.900
                 acres, more or less, as Residential District R3-C.
         10-16-  Zoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 29, Township 18 North,
091100B  00      Range 5 East, containing 8.377 acres, more or less, as Residential District
                 R4-C.
                 Zoning a part of the Northwest Quarter of Section 6, Township 17 North,
         10-16-  Range 5 East, Delaware Township, also being a part of the lands now or
091100E  00      formerly owned by Marathon Oil Company and 116th Street Partners,
                 containing 1.520 acres, more or less, as Town Center District 4, Gateway
                 Commercial District (TCD 4).
                 Zoning (Parcel One) a part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast
                 Quarter of Section 20, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, excepting one
                 parcel described as a part of the west half of the Northeast Quarter of
                 Section 20, Township 18 North, Range 5 East; together with Parcel Two
                 containing 10 acres off the east side of the Northeast Quarter of the
                 Northwest Quarter of Section 20, Township 18 North, Range 5 East and
091100D  12-4-00 together with Parcel Three, a part of the Southwest Quarter of the
                 Northeast Quarter of Section 20, Township 18 North, Range 5 East, excepting
                 from Parcel Three a part of the Southwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter
                 of Section 20, Township 18 North, Range 5 East in Fall Creek Township which
                 shall be known as Parcel Four and also excepting from Parcel Three a tract
                 of land which is 90 feet by parallel lines off the entire south side of
                 Parcel Four, as Residential District R4-C.
                 Zoning a part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 36, Township 18 North,
010801A  4-16-01 Range 5 East and the entire width of the rights-of-way of 116th Street as
                 Single Family Residential Cluster District R3-C.
101600A  5-7-01  Zoning part of the Southwest Quarter of Section 19, Township 18 North,
                 Range 5 East as Single Family Residential District R3.
012201D  5-7-01  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Southeast Corner 116th and Olio
                 Road PUD.
012201F  5-7-01  Zoning part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section
                 32, Township 18 North, Range 5 East as Industrial-Noblesville District I1.5
030501   5-7-01  Zoning property designated in Exhibit A as Planned Unit Development
                 District - Residential PUD-R.
030501B  5-21-01 Zoning real estate described as Lots 1 and 2 of Geist Bay Estates, Section
                 4 as Single Family Residential District R3.
050701C  5-21-01 Amends Ord. 010693A.
050701F  6-18-01 Zoning property described in Exhibit A from TCD5, South Street Neighborhood
                 District to TCD4, I-69 Gateway Commercial District.
022101A  6-18-01 Zoning property designated in Exhibit A as Single Family Residential
                 District R3.
080601F  8-6-01  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Planned Unit Development District
                 - Mixed PUD-M.
070901B  8-20-01 Rezoning property described in Exhibit A from R4-C and R6 to Planned Unit
                 Development District Residential - PUD-R.
070901A  9-4-01  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential Cluster District R5-
                 C.
050701E  10-1-01 Zoning real estate described as 9115 East 146th Street as Residential
                 District R5.
060401E  10-1-01 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Saxony PUD.
060401F  10-1-01 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Exit 10 Overlay District.
080601A  10-15-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Planned Unit Development District
         01      - Commercial PUD-C.
080601C  10-15-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Planned Unit Development District
         01      - Residential PUD-R.
100101B  11-5-01 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Commercial District C-1.
110501   1-23-02 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Planned Unit Development District
                 - Mixed PUD-M.
080601D  1-23-02 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential Cluster District R5-
                 C.
022502A  4-15-02 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Single-Family Residential
                 District R-3.
031802A  5-6-02  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Single-family Residential
                 District R-3.
040102A  6-17-02 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Open Space District.
050602A  6-17-02 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Single-Family Residential
                 District R-3.
052002   7-15-02 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Town Center District 4, I-69
                 Gateway Commercial District (TCD4).
080502E  9-16-02 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential District R-2.
080502C  10-7-02 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as R4-C Residential District.
090302A  10-21-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Planned Unit Development District
         02      PUD-R.
090302C  10-21-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Planned Unit Development District
         02      PUD-R.
090302E  10-21-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Planned Unit Development District
         02      PUD-R.
090302G  10-21-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Planned Unit Development District
         02      PUD-R.
090302I  10-21-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Open Space District OS.
         02
090302K  10-21-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Open Space District OS.
         02
090302M  10-21-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Open Space District OS.
         02
090302O  10-21-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Open Space District OS.
         02
090302Q  10-21-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Open Space District OS.
         02
090302S  10-21-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Open Space District OS.
         02
090302U  10-21-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Single-Family District R-1.
         02
090302W  10-21-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Single-Family District R-1.
         02
030303   3-3-03  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Single-Family Residential
                 District R-5.
021803E  5-5-03  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential District R-2.
031703A  5-19-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Hawks Landing PUD.
020303   6-2-03  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Avalon PUD-R.
021803G  6-2-03  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Avalon PUD-R.
040703   6-2-03  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Sunny Meadows Farms PUD.
021803A  6-16-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Saxony PUD.
021803C  6-16-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Saxony PUD.
042103C  6-16-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Saxony PUD-M.
120202A  6-21-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential Cluster District R4-
                 C.
042103D  7-7-03  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Exit 10 Overlay District.
051903F  7-7-03  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Hamilton Proper PD.
042103A  7-21-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Somerset Hills PUD.
042103B  7-21-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Somerset Hills PUD.
061603B  7-21-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as South Avalon Estates PUD.
051903D  7-21-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Commercial District C1.
031703B  8-4-03  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Commercial District C2.
061603A  9-15-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Industrial District I1.5.
051903C  10-20-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Boulders PUD.
         03
072103A  10-20-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential District R2.
         03
072103C  10-20-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential District R2.
         03
072103E  10-20-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Southeast Fishers PUD.
         03
072103G  10-20-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Southeast Fishers PUD.
         03
072103I  10-20-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Southeast Fishers PUD.
         03
072103K  10-20-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Southeast Fishers PUD.
         03
072103M  10-20-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Southeast Fishers PUD.
         03
072103O  10-20-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Southeast Fishers PUD.
         03
072103Q  10-20-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Southeast Fishers PUD.
         03
081803A  10-20-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Southeast Fishers PUD-M.
         03
081803C  10-20-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential District, R1.
         03
080403A  11-3-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Commercial District, C3.
091503A  11-3-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Harbour PUD.
100603A  11-17-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Commercial District, C1.
         03
100603B  12-1-03 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Seasons Gardens PUD.
111703D  1-5-04  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Brooks Chase PUD.
120103C  1-20-04 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Exit 5 PUD.
120103E  2-2-04  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Pet Palace PUD.
121503A  2-2-04  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential Property R3.
121503F  2-16-04 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential property R4.
111703C  3-2-04  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential District, R4.
012004A  3-2-04  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential District R2.
012004E  3-2-04  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential Property R2.
012004G  3-2-04  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential Property R2.
030303   3-3-04  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Single-Family Residential RS.
121503C  4-19-04 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Limestone Springs PUD.
121503D  4-19-04 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Gray Eagle PUD.
012004I  4-19-04 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Rural Residential District RR.
031504A  5-17-04 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential Cluster District R5C.
051704A  7-7-04  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Graystone PUD.
070704A  9-7-04  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Commercial District C1.
080204B  9-7-04  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Saxony PUD.
080204A  10-4-04 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Agricultural District A.
070704C  11-22-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential District R7.
         04
101804A  12-6-04 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Rural Residential District RR.
101804C  2-7-05  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Gray Eagle PUD.
120604A  2-7-05  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Commercial District C1.
122004A  2-7-05  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential District R3.
010305A  3-7-05  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Walker Property PUD-M.
090704B  3-21-05 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Marketplace PUD-M.
112204   4-18-05 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Southeast Fishers PUD.
112204B  4-18-05 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential District R3.
010305C  4-18-05 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Hillsdale PUD-R.
010305D  5-16-05 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Town Center Main Street TCMS.
030705A  5-16-05 Zoning proeprty described in Exhibit A as Commercial District C1.
021604C  6-7-04  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Town Center Special District TCS.
030705C  6-20-05 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential R4.
040405A  6-20-05 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Sandcreek Pet Campus PUD-C.
030705D  7-6-05  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Pet Palace PUD-M.
070605   7-6-05  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Commercial District C1.
070605D  8-1-05  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Olio Road PUD.
062005B  9-19-05 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Town Center Main Street TCMS.
070605B  9-19-05 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Thorpe Creek PUD.
070605C  10-17-  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Southeast Fishers PUD-M.
         05
010306A  3-20-06 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Residential District R5.
032006   4-17-06 Zoning three parcels as I1.5, and three parcels as R2.
020606   5-1-06  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Steeplechase PUD-R.
030606C  5-1-06  Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Village at Gray Eagle PUD-M.
030606A  5-15-06 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Bridger Pines PUD-R.
030606B  5-15-06 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Vermillion PUD-R.
050106A  10-2-06 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Fall Creek Marketplace PUD-C.
080706B  10-2-06 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Briarwood at Fishers PUD-R.
070506   11-6-06 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as Fishers Marketplace PUD-M.
110606B  2-19-07 Zoning property described in Exhibit A as George Property PUD.
120406A  3-5-07  Zoning Muller real estate described in Exhibit A as C1.
                 Amending zoning code that the permitted uses set forth in District A, C3 as
030507C  5-9-07  described in the Saxony PUD be amended to restrict certain uses, including
                 truck stop/service center, RV park - overnight use; and, adult uses.
062110B  9-7-10  Changing zoning classification of real estate described in Exhibit A to
                 126th Street Special Standards District.
092010B  11-3-10 Zoning Kreutzinger property as Estate Residential (ER).
092010C  11-3-10 Zoning Diehl property as Estate Residential (ER).
092010D  11-3-10 Zoning Mattingly property as Estate Residential (ER).
092010E  11-3-10 Zoning Culwell property as Estate Residential (ER).
092010F  11-3-10 Zoning Mustard Seed, Inc. property as Estate Residential (ER).
092010G  11-3-10 Zoning CLE Development property as Estate Residential (ER).
092010H  11-3-10 Zoning Nordell property as Agricultural (AG).
120610B  3-7-11  Zoning Nix property as Estate Residential (ER).
120610C  3-7-11  Zoning Shadle property as Estate Residential (ER).
120610D  3-7-11  Zoning Wenning property as Estate Residential (ER).
120610E  3-7-11  Zoning Davis property as Estate Residential (ER).
011811   3-7-11  Zoning Meslin property as Estate Residential (ER).
011811A  3-7-11  Zoning Ricketts-Lovell property as Agriculture (AG).
011811B  3-7-11  Zoning Scherer property as Estate Residential (ER).
011811C  3-7-11  Zoning Garzon property as Estate Residential (ER).
051611   9-6-11  Amending zoning map to expand area within Saxony PUD.
080111   10-3-11 Zoning McAree property as Estate Residential (ER).
080111A  10-3-11 Zoning Zipper property as Estate Residential (ER).
080111B  10-3-11 Zoning Witsken property as Agriculture (AG).
080111C  10-3-11 Zoning The Pines at Northfield as R4 Residential.
100311A  12-19-  Zoning Lot 1 and Lot 2 in Russell’s Subdivision as PUD-C.
         11
070212A  9-4-12  Zoning Jenniges property as Estate Residential (ER).
070212B  9-4-12  Zoning Hensley/West properties as Agriculture (AG).
080212   12-3-12 Amending Ordinance 100603B, passed 12-1-03, as to real estate described in
                 Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 080212.
020413C  4-1-13  Zoning Ayers property as Estate Residential (ER).
020413A  4-15-13 Zoning Apple property as Estate Residential (ER).
020413B  4-15-13 Zoning Schoot propety as Estate Residential (ER).
020413   6-17-13 Zoning the Poer property (the Haven) as R2 Residential.
021714B  4-7-14  Zoning the property described in Exhibit A as Open Space (OS).
050714   7-7-14  Rezoning property located at 11020 Allisonville Road from Commercial Office
                 District (C1) to Residential District (R2).
040714   7-21-14 Rezoning property located at 12244 E. 116th Street from Residential
                 District (R2) to Commercial District (C2).
021615   4-20-15 Rezoning property described in Exhibit A as Commercial District (C2).
042015B  6-15-15 Rezoning for Reserve at Lantern PUD.
042015C  6-15-15 Rezoning for Wasson Nursery PUD.
092115B  11-16-  Rezoning Grace Church property to Residential District (R2).
         15
072215A  12-21-  Rezoning for Prairie Guest House PUD.
         15
092115E  12-21-  Rezoning for Thoroughbred PUD.
         15
101915B  12-21-  Rezoning for Gallacher PUD.
         15
111615   1-19-16 Rezoning for College Park Church PUD.
111615A  1-19-16 Rezoning for IKEA Fishers PUD.
R051517  5-15-17 Initiating a proposal to amend the zoning map in the R2, Residential
                 District.
071717E  11-20-  Rezoning for Geist Manor PUD.
         17
021918C  2-19-18 Rezoning certain properties to Open Space.
111918C  11-19-  Zoning Lot 1 and Lot 2 in the Stern-Bothwell Subdivision as C2,
         18      Neighborhood Business District.
041519C  5-20-19 Declaring certain real estate as within C1, Office Commercial on conditions
                 that property voluntarily annex to city.
091619H  9-16-19 Designating real estate as withing the R2 District.
012120A  2-17-20 Amending the text of Parkside PUD Ord. 030294C.
R042020B 4-20-20 Designating property at 9800 Crosspoint Boulevard as economic
                 revitalization area.
R042020D 4-20-20 Designating property at 9900 Westpoint Drive as economic revitalization
                 area.
R072020B 7-20-20 Designating property at 9900 Westpoint Drive as an economic revitalization
                 area and authorizing personal property abatement.
R072020C 7-20-20 Designating 9800 Crosspoint Boulevard as an economic revitalization area
                 and authorizing abatement.
021521D  4-19-21 Rezoning 36 acres from EN to PUD-M for Villas at Fishers District.
071921   8-16-21 Rezoning 60.85 acres from R2 to PUD-R for Milford Park PUD District.
071921A  8-16-21 Rezoning 106.90 acres from R2 to PUD-R for The Cove at Thorpe Creek PUD
                 District.
101121G  11-15-  Amending Ords. - -2018 and 071618F to include a Nickel Plate Trail Overlay
         21      (NPT-OL) District.
101121F  1-18-22 Rezoning approximately 15 acres from R3 to PUD-R for a project known as the
                 Lehman PUD District.
122021A  2-21-22 Rezoning approximately 22.72 acres from R-2 to PUD-R for a project known as
                 the Courtyards of Fishers PUD District.
101121E  3-21-22 Rezoning approximately 23.654 acres from PUD-C to PUD-R for a project known
                 as the Cottages PUD District.
032122B  4-18-22 Rezoning approximately 98.143 acres from R2 to PUD-R for a project known as
                 the Abbott Commons PUD District.
081522A  10-10-  Rezoning approximately 5.27 acres from PUD-M to PUD-R for a project known
         22      as the Marketplace Towns PUD District.
022023D  3-20-23 Designating certain property as OS, Open Space.
R061923C 6-19-23 Designating certain property at 0 E. 126th Street as an economic
                 revitalization area and authorizing a real property tax abatement.
R061923E 6-19-23 Designating certain property at 6950 E. 96th Street as an economic
                 revitalization area and authorizing a personal property tax abatement.
R082123D 8-21-23 Designating certain property at 0 E. 126th Street as an economic
                 revitalization area and authorizing a real property tax abatement.
R082123E 8-21-23 Designating certain property at 6950 E. 96th Street as an economic
                 revitalization area and authorizing a personal property tax abatement.
041723C  10-9-23 Rezoning approximately 109.15 acres from R-2 to PUD-R for a project known
                 as Flat Fork PUD District.
112023A  12-18-  Amending the zoning map of the city to designate real estate as within the
         23      OS District.
112023B  1-16-24 Rezoning approximately 1.0 acres from R-2 to PUD-C for a project known as
                 Drive Planning PUD District.
111824   1-13-25 Rezoning approximately 44.42 acres from R2 to PUD-R for a project known as
                 the Balmoral Village PUD.
022425C  3-17-25 Rezoning certain property at 16601 Southeastern Parkway as ER.
                
 
TABLE VII: RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No.             Date Passed Description
R 1-3-83                        Appropriation of share for Community
                                 Improvement Grant
R 3-7-83                        Advisory Commission Grant
R 060484                        Created appropriation category of Town
                                 Promotion
R 120984                        Southeastern County Park priorities
R 120984A                       Hamilton County Park Board Nominees
R 011685                        Hamilton County Park Board Appoints Valerie Ax
R 080686                        Manship Lane established
R 120386                        Amendment to Traffic Ordinance 040385 Schedule
                                 G for Section 19-7
                                 Combined the Sinking Fund and Depreciation
R 012088                        Fund to create Fishers Sanitary Sewage
                                 Treatment Facility Sinking and Depreciation
                                 Fund
R 012088A                       Amendment to Traffic Ordinance 040385 Schedule
                                 G for Section 19-17
R 061588                        Amendment to Traffic Ordinance 040385 Schedule
                                 D for Section 19-5
R 081788A                       Amendment to Traffic Ordinance 040385 Schedule
                                 B for Section 19-2
R 051789                        Maintenance of 96th Street in and adjacent to
                                 the town corporate limits
R 082290                        Expansion of Town Council From 3 to 5 members
R 90                            Support of County Combined Communication
                                 Center
R 061792             6-17-92     Participation in county-wide economic
                                 development effort
R 071592             7-15-92     Reimbursable expenses (inserted in full in
                                 34.03)
                                 Regarding the need to acquire real estate for
R 100792A            10-7-92     the purpose of making thoroughfare
                                 improvements within the town.
                                 Renaming Lantern Road from its intersection
R 120992B            12-9-92     with 106th Street north to its intersection
                                 with the south right-of-way line of Interstate
                                 Highway 69 to USA Parkway.
R 072193A            7-21-93     Acceptance of jurisdiction of public rights-
                                 of-way.
                                 Granting jurisdiction to the Noblesville
R 080493A            8-4-93      Housing Authority to operate as a
                                 representative of the U.S. Department of
                                 Housing and Urban Development within the town.
R 100693A            10-6-93     Interlocal resolution sludge molds
R 121593             12-15-93    Improvement bonds approval for the Fishers
                                 Town Hall Building Corporation.
R 090794             9-7-94      Resolving to poll the electorate on increasing
                                 the Town Council from five to seven members.
                                 Approving the order of the Fishers Plan
R 081794             8-17-94     Commission with regard to the designation of
                                 an economic development area.
R 070694A            7-6-94      Granting an easement to Ironwood Golf Club,
                                 Inc., for path and tunnel.
R 1995-01            2-15-95     Approving an ordinance of the Hamilton County
                                 Income Tax Council.
R 030195             3-1-95      Designating the Schwab property as an economic
                                 revitalization area.
R 031595             3-15-95     Confirming R030195, establishing the Schwab
                                 property as an economic revitalization area.
R 040595             4-5-95      Regarding the disposition of surplus property.
R 041995             4-19-95     Designating property as an economic
                                 revitalization area.
R 041995A            4-19-95     Authorizing acquisition of certain real
                                 property.
                                 Receiving and approving the petition of
R 051895             5-18-95     taxpaying citizens requesting leasing of a new
                                 fire station and renovations and additions to
                                 Fire Station No. 91 for the town.
R 060795B            6-7-95      Approvement of placement of TCG facilities in
                                 filed right-of-passage documents.
R 071995             7-19-95     Correcting a scrivener s error renaming
                                 Fishers Trade Center PD to Parkside PD.
                                 Approving drawings, plans, specifications and
                                 estimates for a new fire station and
R 060795             6-7-95      renovations and additions to Fire Station No.
                                 91, approving a lease for a new fire station
                                 and a second amendment to lease for Fire
                                 Station No. 91.
R 060795C            6-7-95      Authorizing borrowing of funds from the sewage
                                 utility.
R 101895A            10-18-95    Requesting an increase in the maximum levy
                                 limitations of I.C. 6-1.1-18.5-13.
R 122095A            12-20-95    Approving use of public right-of-way by
                                 Indiana-American Water Company, Inc.
                                 Extension of payments to the Executive
R 011096             1-10-96     Director of the Historic Railroad Multi-
                                 Jurisdictional Port Authority through January
                                 1996.
                                 Authorizing Roy G. Holland or Walter F. Kelly
                                 and Linda Gaye Cordell to execute such
R 011096A            1-10-96     documents to complete conveyance of parcel of
                                 real estate owned by the town to Center Ice
                                 Development, L.L.C.
                                 Authorizing Town Council President and Clerk-
                                 Treasurer to execute such documents to
R 020796             2-7-96      complete conveyance of certain property
                                 interests in the right-of-way acquired by
                                 Noblesville and the town.
                                 The town shall comply with the rules and
R 020796A            2-7-96      regulations of the Federal Highway
                                 Administration applicable to the town.
                                 Providing for policies affecting various
                                 departments and activities: Continuing
                                 education requirements, physical fitness
R 020796B            3-20-96     requirements, overtime pay, access to and use
                                 of the fitness center, clothing and uniform
                                 policy, allowance for travel, food and
                                 lodging, off-duty employment, and take home
                                 car policy.
                                 Regarding continued payments to Executive
                                 Director of the Historic Railroad Multi-
R 030696             3-6-96      Jurisdictional Port Authority that the town
                                 shall continue to pay until requested to
                                 terminate such payments.
                                 Dedication of streets as public streets and
R 040396             4-3-96      Right-of-Way within the Tremont Section 1
                                 Subdivision.
                                 Allow the Fishers Elementary School to place a
R 040396A            4-3-96      portable sign in the Right-of-Way of 116th
                                 Street.
R 060596A            6-5-96      Amending resolution R 020796B.
R 060596B            6-5-96      Authorizing the exchange of real estate owned
                                 by the town for another piece of real estate.
R 060596C            6-5-96      Declaring official intent of town to reimburse
                                 certain expenditures.
R 061996             6-19-96     Amending Resolution R 020796B.
R 071096A            7-10-96     Amending Exhibit A to R 020796B.
R 072496A            7-24-96     Providing for temporary loan from the
                                 Wastewater Facility.
R 072496B            7-24-96     Amending Exhibit A to R 020796B.
R 082696             8-26-96     Preliminary determination to issue bonds.
R 090496A            9-4-96      Vacating easement described in Exhibit A.
                                 Requesting an evaluation by the Public
R 102396C            10-23-96    Employees Retirement Fund relative to the
                                 participation of members of town council in
                                 PERF.
                                 Authorizing distribution by Clerk-Treasurer of
R 120496A            12-4-96     an official statement to be used in connection
                                 with the sale of general obligation bonds,
                                 series 1996.
R 121896A            12-18-96    Declaring intent to reimburse expenditures for
                                 sewer works project.
R 021997A            2-19-97     Pertaining to automated deposits.
                                 Waives the Fishers Road Impact Fee in regard
R 021997B            2-19-97     to the planned construction of a school
                                 building by the Hamilton Southeastern School
                                 Corporation.
                                 Waiving road impact fees in connection with
R 041697B            4-16-97     the construction of a new elementary school to
                                 be constructed on 141st Street.
R 062597A            6-25-97     Regarding purchasing procedures for the town.
R 062597             7-2-97      Providing for an amendment to the speed limit
                                 on Harrison Parkway.
R 072397             7-23-97     Status of the Pedcor Investments Cumberland
                                 Crossing Development Project with the town.
R 080697B            8-6-97      Affirmative vote on question Does the Fishers
                                 Town Council favor the PEDCOR Development.
                                 Regarding property tax abatements on that
R 021098             2-10-98     certain property be acquired by ReGin
                                 Manufacturing for six years.
R 021898             2-18-98     Regarding economic inducements for Alliant
                                 Food Service, Inc.
                                 Regarding property tax abatements on that
R 021898A            2-18-98     certain property be acquired by Alliant Food
                                 Services, Inc. for ten years.
                                 Regarding the issuance of revenue bonds for an
R 030498             3-4-98      economic development project of ReGin
                                 Manufacturing or and entity to be formed.
R 031898             3-18-98     Placing a question before voters as to whether
                                 the town should change into a city.
R 041598             4-15-98     To issue revenue bonds for the financing of
                                 economic development facilities.
R 091598A            10-7-98     Regarding IDG Books Worldwide application for
                                 request for property tax abatement.
                                 Establishing a speed limit for 96th St. from
R 090298             9-2-98      White River to the east property line of
                                 Covington Estates.
R 100798A            10-7-98     Amending certain speed limits.
R 100798B            10-7-98     Regarding tax abatement.
R 012099             3-3-99      Electing to increase employer contributions to
                                 the Public Employees Retirement Fund.
R 030399             3-3-99      Electing to join the 1977 Police and
                                 Firefighter s Pension and Disability Fund.
R 040799             4-7-99      Declaring four vehicles surplus property, and
                                 preparing to auction said vehicles.
R 050599A            5-5-99      Authorizing the initiation of a YMCA project.
R 051999A            5-19-99     Amending the personnel policy manual.
R 060799A            6-7-99      Declaring a list of items surplus property and
                                 preparing to auction said items.
R 062199             6-21-99     Adopting a cafeteria benefits plan.
R 092099B            9-20-99     Amending the third rhetorical paragraph of
                                 Resolution R 030399.
                                 Adding the 166th Street and Cumberland Road
R 101899             10-18-99    Intersection to the Schedule of Intersections
                                 with Four-way Stops.
R120400              12-4-00     Establishing 2001 salaries for employees of
                                 the town.
R120400A             12-4-00     Authorizing execution of certain documents.
R121800              12-18-00    Declaring an official intent to reimburse
                                 expenditures.
R012201              1-22-01     Authorizing and approving the investment of
                                 public funds in money market mutual funds.
                                 Resolving to provide for job and
R012201B             1-22-01     responsibility descriptions for certain
                                 elected officials and appointed officials.
                                 Resolving to provide an escalating fine
R022101B             2-21-01     schedule in regard to certain violations of
                                 town ordinances.
R030501A             3-5-01      Approving workman s copensations insurance
                                 carrier.
                                 The town shall make certain improvements to
R041601A             5-7-01      the roads and reasonable expects to reimburse
                                 expenditures for the project with proceeds of
                                 bonds issued by or on behalf of the town.
R050701              5-7-01      Resolution regarding the borrowing of funds
                                 from the Fishers sewage utility.
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
R061801B             6-18-01     the establishments of an economic development
                                 area.
R070901              7-9-01      Changing the definition of a fixed asset.
R090401B             9-4-01      Affirming the policy of open meetings and open
                                 records.
R090401C             9-4-01      Rescinding a memorandum of understanding.
R091701E             9-17-01     Adopting the budget for the calendar year
                                 2002.
R080601              10-15-01    Adopting the Development Guidelines Plan.
R110501              11-5-01     Authorizing the transfer of interests in real
                                 estate to the redevelopment authority.
                                 Authorizing issuance of the Fishers
R110501B             11-5-01     redevelopment authority lease rental revenue
                                 bonds of 2001.
R111901A             11-19-01    Accepting the conveyance of real estate for a
                                 limited purpose.
R010702              1-7-02      Authorizing and improving the investment of
                                 public funds in money market mutual funds.
R020402              2-4-02      Preliminary determination to issue bonds.
R030402              3-4-02      Adopting the new procedures governing
                                 purchasing.
R031802              3-18-02     Tax abatement resolution.
R060302              6-3-02      Amends Res. 030402.
R091602E             9-16-02     Adopting a total tax levy for calendar year
                                 2003.
R100702              10-7-02     Adopting the interurban trail connection
                                 through unannexed areas.
R010603A             1-21-03     Amending the zoning ordinances.
R012103A             1-21-03     Regarding outstanding purchase orders.
R030303              3-3-03      Providing for fees and charges for
                                 fingerprinting.
R030303A             3-3-03      Altering the speed limit on Schedule III of
                                 the Fishers Traffic Code.
R031703              3-17-03     Regarding transferring funds.
R040703              4-7-03      Regarding transferring funds.
R040703B             4-7-03      Regarding vehicle lease financing.
R042103              4-21-03     Determining that certain property is surplus.
R042103B             4-21-03     Regarding transferring funds.
R050503              5-5-03      Concerning certain benefits to town employees.
R051903              5-19-03     Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Approving S.P.O.R.T.S. Organization to place
                                 advertising banners on outfield fences of
R051903A             5-19-03     baseball fields at Roy G. Holland, Billericay
                                 and Harrison Thompson Parks for the 2003
                                 baseball season.
R051903B             5-19-03     Permitting public information signs on town
                                 property for 2003 Summer Concert Series.
R060203              6-2-03      Regarding transferring funds.
R060203A             6-2-03      Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Dedicating the Fishers Heritage Park at White
R070703              7-7-03      River Pathway as the Nelson G. Steele Memorial
                                 Pathway.
R070703A             7-7-03      Regarding sale of real property.
R072103A             7-21-03     Regarding transferring funds.
R072103B             7-21-03     Resolving to have building projects completed.
                                 Supporting the acquisition, operation and
R072103C             7-21-03     mission of the Ritchey Woods property
                                 including reimbursement of costs associated
                                 with land transfer.
R090203              8-2-03      Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Receiving and approving the petition of
                                 taxpaying citizens requesting the construction
R090203B             9-2-03      and leasing of certain municipal facilities
                                 and taking other actions regarding the
                                 proposed leases.
R090203C             9-2-03      Appointing representatives to common
                                 construction wage committees.
R042103A             9-2-03      Adopting the Development Guidelines Plan.
R091503              9-15-03     Regarding transferring funds.
R091503A             9-15-03     Waiving permit fees for flood damaged victims
                                 from September 1, 2003.
R091503B             9-15-03     Adopting a Total Tax rate for calendar year
                                 2004.
R091503C             9-15-03     Providing for a petition to appeal 2004
                                 maximum levy.
R091503D             9-15-03     Clarifying a preliminary determination to
                                 enter into certain leases.
R092203A             9-22-03     Approving the execution of a lease and related
                                 matters.
R100603A             10-6-03     Approving the Park s and Recreation Department
                                 s proposed fee policy.
R102003              10-20-03    Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Establishing 131st Street between Olio Road
R102003A             10-20-03    and Pennington Road as a thoroughfare within
                                 the zone improvement plan for roads.
R110303              11-3-03     Regarding transferring funds.
R111703              11-17-03    Regarding transferring funds.
R120103              12-1-03     Regarding transferring funds.
R120103E             12-15-03    Determining that certain property is surplus.
R121503              12-15-03    Regarding transferring funds.
R121503A             12-15-03    Authorizing the transfer of interests in real
                                 estate to the Fishers Redevelopment Authority.
R122903              12-29-03    Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Establishing a fund for proceeds of the sale
R122903A             12-29-03    of real estate to the Fishers Redevelopment
                                 Authority.
R122903B             12-29-03    Providing for the payment of certain
                                 obligations.
R012004              1-20-04     Determining that certain property is surplus.
                                 Authorizing the Clerk/Treasurer to borrow from
R012004B             1-20-04     cash resources of the town to meet obligations
                                 necessitated by late tax distributions.
R012004D             1-20-04     Providing for amendment to the personnel
                                 policy manual of the town.
R020204              2-2-04      Determining that certain property is surplus.
                                 Determining that certain property is surplus
R021604              2-16-04     and authorizing its sale to the Town of
                                 Shirley, Indiana.
                                 Adding certain streets to the schedule of
R030204              3-2-04      designated school zones in the Fishers Traffic
                                 Code.
R031504D             3-15-04     Granting requests for waivers under 6-1.1-
                                 12.1-11.3
R031504E             3-15-04     Regarding transferring funds.
R040504              4-5-04      Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Designating a portion of the town as an
R050504A             5-5-04      economic revitalization area and approving
                                 abatement for Forum Credit Union.
R051704              5-17-04     Regarding transferring funds.
R060704              6-7-04      Regarding transferring funds.
R060704A             6-7-04      Determining that certain property is surplus.
R062104              6-21-04     Regarding transferring funds.
R062104A             6-21-04     Authorizing the execution of certain documents
                                 associated with transfer of Ritchey Woods.
R070704              7-7-04      Regarding transferring funds.
R070704A             7-7-04      Adopting the Fire Department s Standards of
                                 Response Coverage.
R071904A             7-7-04      Adopting the Fire Department s Standards of
                                 Response Coverage.
R071904              7-19-04     Regarding economic development incentives.
R080204              8-2-04      Regarding transferring funds.
R081604              8-16-04     Authorizing the creation of certain funds
                                 within the town.
R081604A             8-16-04     Regarding transferring funds.
R081604C             8-16-04     Providing for the execution of a master lease
                                 agreement for certain equipment.
R090704              9-7-04      Regarding transferring funds.
R090704A             9-7-04      Regarding transferring funds.
R090704B             9-7-04      Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Providing for the submission of record
R090704D             9-7-04      drawings and the standardization of the
                                 digital information submittal format.
R091704              9-17-04     Adopting a total tax rate for calendar year
                                 2005.
R092004              9-20-04     Regarding transferring funds.
R092004B             9-20-04     Providing the authority to join the Central
                                 Indiana Regional Transportation Authority.
R092004C             9-20-04     Authorizing the issuance of Tax Anticipation
                                 Refunding Warrants of 2004 (General Fund).
R100404              10-4-04     Regarding transferring funds.
R100404C             10-4-04     Adopting an employee training reimbursement
                                 agreement for the Fire Department.
R101804              10-18-04    Regarding transferring funds.
R101804A             10-18-04    Determining that certain property is surplus.
R110804              11-8-04     Determining certain accounts uncollectible.
R110804A             11-8-04     Regarding transferring funds.
R110804B             11-8-04     Adopting Keystone Consulting Services, Inc.
R122004              12-20-04    Regarding transferring funds.
R122804              12-28-04    Regarding transferring funds.
R122804A             12-28-04    Providing for increase in annual pay within
                                 the maximum allowed.
R123104              12-31-04    Regarding transferring funds.
R011805              1-18-05     Providing for execution of affidavits for
                                 payment.
R011805A             1-18-05     Authorizing the execution of a contract of
                                 employment for a Town Manager.
R020705              2-7-05      Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Confirming the rights of owners of real estate
R020705C             2-7-05      in Fall Creek Township to permissible uses or
                                 real estate.
R022105              2-21-05     Regarding transferring funds.
R022105B             2-21-05     Regarding transferring funds.
R030705              3-7-05      Regarding transferring funds.
R030705A             3-7-05      Regarding Conner Prairie.
R040405A             4-4-05      Regarding transferring funds.
R041805              4-18-05     Regarding tax abatement for Duke Realty.
R041805A             4-18-05     Regarding transferring funds.
R050205A             5-2-05      Establishing a Telecommunications and
                                 Technology Advisory Commission.
R051605              5-16-05     Regarding transferring funds.
R051605C             5-16-05     Determining that certain property is surplus.
R051605D             5-16-05     Adopting an employee training reimbursement
                                 policy for the Fire Department.
R050504              5-17-04     Regarding prohibited parking.
R060605              6-6-05      Regarding transferring funds.
R062005              6-20-05     Adopting the National Management System
                                 (NIMS).
R070605              7-6-05      Regarding transferring funds.
R071805              7-18-05     Regarding transferring funds.
R080105              8-1-05      Authorizing the issuance of General Obligation
                                 Refunding Bonds, Series 2005.
R080105A             8-1-05      Determining that certain property is surplus.
R071805A             7-18-05     Providing for economic development incentives
                                 and funding for infrastructure improvements.
R080105B             8-1-05      Determining that certain property is surplus.
R080105G             8-1-05      Regarding transferring funds.
R081505              8-15-05     Regarding transferring funds.
R090605              9-605       Regarding transferring funds.
R090605A             9-6-05      Determining that certain property is surplus.
R090605B             9-6-05      Regarding transferring funds.
R091905C             9-19-05     Regarding transferring funds.
R100305              10-3-05     Regarding transferring funds.
R101705              10-17-05    Regarding transferring funds.
R101705A             10-17-05    Accepting the stormwater technical standards.
R100305              10-02-05    Regarding transferring funds.
R101705              10-17-05    Regarding transferring funds.
R101705A             10-17-05    Accepting the stormwater technical standards.
R110705              11-7-05     Changing speed limit on portion of
                                 Allisonville Road.
R110705A             11-7-05     Determining that certain property is surplus.
R110705B             11-7-05     Additional appropriation for road impact fees.
R110705C             11-7-05     Regarding transferring funds.
R112105              11-21-05    Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Adopting the Park and Recreation Master Plan
R112105A             11-18-06    and Infrastructure Improvement Plan 2005
                                 update.
R120505              12-5-05     Regarding transferring funds.
R121905A             12-19-05    Additional appropriation for sewer fund.
R122805              12-28-05    Regarding transferring funds.
R011806              1-18-06     Regarding encumbering funds.
                                 Declaring formal support for the economic
R011806A             1-18-06     development initiative proposed by the
                                 Governor of Indiana.
R022006              2-20-06     Determining that certain property is surplus.
                                 Supporting the relocation of Metropolitan
R030606              3-6-06      Airport adopted by Hamilton County, the City
                                 of Noblesville and the Town of Fishers.
R041706              4-17-06     Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Providing for installation of biological
R041706A             4-17-06     retardant barriers to protect infrastructure
                                 and to permit the planting of street trees.
R050106              5-1-06      Regarding construction specifications.
R051506A             5-15-06     Regarding transferring funds.
R060506A             6-5-06      Determining that certain property is surplus.
R060506E             6-5-06      Determining that certain property is surplus.
R060506F             6-5-06      Regarding transferring funds.
R061906              6-19-06     Regarding transferring funds.
R070506              7-5-06      Regarding transferring funds.
R070506A             6-5-06      Determining that certain property is surplus.
R071706              7-17-06     Regarding transferring funds.
R080706B             8-7-06      Additional appropriation.
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
R082106A             8-21-06     the establishment of an economic development
                                 area.
R082106              8-21-06     Tax abatement for Lantern Partners LLC and
                                 Irwin Mortgage Corp.
R090506              9-5-06      Regarding transferring funds.
R091806              9-18-06     Determining that certain property is surplus.
R091806B             9-18-06     Adopting a total property tax rate and/or
                                 total property tax levy calendar for 2007.
R091806C             9-18-06     Regarding transferring funds.
R091806D             9-18-06     Regarding reducing appropriations.
R091806E             9-18-06     Regarding appeal of 2007 maximum levy three-
                                 year growth factor.
R101606              10-16-06    Additional appropriation.
R101606A             10-16-06    Additional appropriation.
R101606B             10-16-06    Regarding transferring funds.
R110606              11-6-06     Tax abatement for Comcast of Willow Grove,
                                 Inc.
R110606B             11-6-06     Regarding transferring funds.
R112006              11-20-06    Regarding transferring funds.
R120406              12-4-06     Regarding transferring funds.
R121806              12-18-06    Regarding transferring funds.
R121806A             12-18-06    Determining that certain property is surplus.
R121806D             12-18-06    Confirming the streets and roads within the
                                 town.
R122806              12-28-06    Regarding transferring funds.
R011607              1-16-07     Regarding transferring funds.
R020507              2-5-07      Determining that certain property is surplus.
R020507A             2-5-07      Additional appropriation.
R020507B             2-5-07      Regarding transferring funds.
R020507C             2-5-07      Regarding transferring funds.
R021907              2-19-07     Regarding transferring funds.
R021907A             2-19-07     Determining that certain property is surplus.
R021907B             2-19-07     Additional appropriation.
R021907D             2-19-07     Additional appropriation.
R021907E             2-19-07     Making a preliminary determination to issue
                                 bonds.
R030507C             3-5-07      Transferring an in-car video recording system
                                 to the Town of Arcadia.
R031907              3-19-07     Additional appropriation.
R031907A             3-19-07     Regarding transferring funds.
R031907C             3-19-07     Amending the standard construction details and
                                 construction specifications.
R040207              4-2-07      Regarding transferring funds.
R040207A             4-2-07      Transferring a circulair hose dryer to the
                                 Town of Cicero.
R040207B             4-2-07      Determining that certain property is surplus.
R040207C             4-2-07      Additional appropriation.
R040207D             4-2-07      Setting forth the position of the Town Council
                                 regarding pending legislation.
R041607              4-16-07     Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
R041607D             4-16-07     the establishment of an economic development
                                 area and the approval of an economic
                                 development plan for said area.
                                 Declaring a vehicle to be surplus property and
R041607E             4-16-07     authorizing a donation to a 501(c)(3)
                                 organization.
R050907              5-9-07      Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Declaring formal support for the economic
R050907B             5-9-07      development initiative proposed by Fairmount
                                 Properties, LLC.
                                 Authorizing the use of the design-build
                                 contracting method, establishment of a
R051207              5-21-07     technical review committee, and identification
                                 of committee members for the multi-use trail
                                 project of the town.
R060407              6-4-07      Regarding transferring funds.
R060407A             6-4-07      Determining certain property is surplus.
R060407B             6-4-07      Single Source Systems tax abatement and
                                 memorandum of agreement.
R070207              7-2-07      Regarding transferring funds.
R072007A             7-2-07      Determining certain property is surplus.
R072007B             7-2-07      Authorizing mutual aid agreement with Hamilton
                                 County for fire protection.
R071607              7-16-07     Approving Bremner Duke Healthcare Economic
                                 Development Agreement.
R080607              8-6-07      Determining certain property is surplus.
R082007              8-20-07     Regarding transferring funds.
R082007A             8-20-07     Determining certain property is surplus.
R090407              9-4-07      Regarding transferring of funds.
R090407A             9-4-07      Declaring police vehicles surplus.
R090407B             9-4-07      Accepting common areas in Bluestone/Wintercove
                                 subdivision.
R091707              9-17-07     Declaring police vehicles surplus.
R091707A             9-17-07     Petition to appeal 2008 maximum levy.
R091707B             9-17-07     Regarding transferring funds.
R091707C             9-17-07     Adopting tax rate for 2008.
R091707D             9-17-07     Declaring police property surplus.
R100107              10-01-07    Determining certain property is surplus.
R101507              10-15-07    Regarding transferring funds.
R110707A             11-7-07     Determining certain property is surplus.
R110707B             11-7-07     Regarding transferring funds.
R110707C             11-7-07     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 certain property.
R111907              11-19-07    Determining certain property is surplus.
R111907A             11-19-07    Regarding transferring funds.
R111907B             11-19-07    Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 certain property.
R111907C             11-19-07    Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 certain property.
R111907D             11-19-07    Fire Department permitted to apply for grant
                                 funding.
R120307              12-3-07     Additional appropriation.
R120307A             12-3-07     Adopting road impact fees.
R010708              1-7-08      Regarding local access to local television.
R012208E             1-22-08     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 certain property.
R031708              3-17-08     Determining surplus property.
R031708A             3-17-08     Regarding tax abatement.
R040708              4-7-08      Additional appropriation.
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
R050708              5-7-08      the amendment of the Fishers/I-69 Economic
                                 Development Area.
R051908              5-19-08     Regarding transferring funds.
R051908A             5-19-08     Determining surplus property.
R060208              6-2-08      Determining surplus property.
                                 Supporting participation in the Rails to
R061608              6-16-08     Trails Conservancy s 2010 Campaign for active
                                 multi-modal transportation in Central Indiana.
R070708              7-7-08      Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Confirming commitment to attaining the Clean
R070708A             7-7-08      designation for the town from the Indiana
                                 Department of Environmental Management.
R070708B             7-7-08      Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town.
R070708C             7-7-08      Regarding acceptance of in-kind payment in
                                 lieu of cash.
R072108              7-21-08     Authorizing a temporary loan from the sewage
                                 utility to fund road construction activities.
                                 Regarding subsidized services by the town to
R072108A             7-21-08     areas currently being annexed pursuant to
                                 Ordinance Nos. 091707B, 091707C, and 091707D.
R080408              8-4-08      Additional appropriation for the Sewer
                                 Improvement Fund (608).
R080408A             8-4-08      Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town.
R081808              8-18-08     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town.
R081808A             8-18-08     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town.
R081808B             8-18-08     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town.
R081808C             8-18-08     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town.
R081808D             8-18-08     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town.
R081808E             8-18-08     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town.
R081808F             8-18-08     Adopting the fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town.
R081808G             8-18-08     Additional appropriation.
R081808H             8-18-08     Determining surplus property.
R081808K             8-18-08     Regarding transferring funds.
                                 Granting permission for the Fire Department to
R090208B             9-2-08      apply for grant funding from the Indiana
                                 Department of Homeland Security on behalf of
                                 the city.
R091508              9-15-08     Requesting tourism development grant from the
                                 HCCVB.
                                 Authorizing Mavron, Inc. to sell town s 2004
R091508A             9-15-08     laminated modular animal transport body on
                                 behalf of town.
R091508B             9-15-08     Determining surplus property.
R091508C             9-15-08     Approving Economic Development Agreement with
                                 Clarian Health Partners, Inc.
R100608              10-6-08     Authorizing donation of a town vehicle to a
                                 IRC 501(c)(3) organization.
R102008              10-20-08    Accepting credit cards as payment option for
                                 recreation activities.
R102008A             10-20-08    Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 the Rhodehamel property.
R102008B             10-20-08    Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 the Crooks Investments, LLC property.
                                 Authorizing 126th Street Road Impact Fee
R102008C             10-20-08    Agreement between town, Precedent Residential
                                 Development and Pulte Homes.
R102008D             10-20-08    Transferring funds.
R110508              11-5-08     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 the Cottingham Estates property.
R110508A             11-5-08     Declaring surplus property.
R110508B             11-5-08     Appointing Kenneth W. Lay as Fire Chief.
R110508C             11-5-08     Recognizing and commending Fire Chief Brian
                                 Lott for outstanding achievements and service.
                                 Authorizing memorandum of understanding
R110508D             11-5-08     between town and Board of Works of
                                 Indianapolis.
R111708              11-17-08    Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property - Crooks Investment, LLC II property.
                                 Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
R111708A             11-17-08    property - Platinum Properties/Fishers East,
                                 LLC property.
                                 Establishing a fund to be called The Town of
R111708B             11-17-08    Fishers Non-Reverting Parks and Recreation
                                 Fund .
R111708C             11-17-08    Petition to appeal 2009 Maximum Levy Three
                                 Year Growth Factor.
R111708D             11-17-08    Transferring funds.
R081808I             12-1-08     Amending the Stormwater Technical Standards.
R081808J             12-1-08     Amending the Standard Construction Details and
                                 Construction Specifications.
R120108              12-1-08     Additional appropriation resolution.
R120108A             12-1-08     Transferring funds.
                                 Ratifying instruction to legal counsel to
R120108B             12-1-08     proceed with eminent domain proceedings
                                 associated with 126th Street road improvement
                                 project.
R121508              12-15-08    Determining certain property is surplus.
                                 Confirming the park purchase agreement between
R121508A             12-15-08    the Town of Fishers and Precedent Residential
                                 Development.
                                 Confirming the 126th Street Road Impact Fee
R121508B             12-15-08    Agreement between the Town of Fishers and
                                 Precedent Residential Development.
R121508C             12-15-08    Confirming the streets and roads within the
                                 Town of Fishers.
R121508D             12-15-08    Transferring funds.
                                 Authorizing the execution of conveyance
R121508E             12-15-08    documents in connection with the sale of real
                                 estate.
R123008              12-30-08    Transferring funds.
R123108              12-31-08    Transferring funds.
R010509              1-5-09      Determining certain property is surplus.
                                 Approving an economic development agreement
R010509A             1-5-09      with Interchange Diversified, LLC and certain
                                 other matters in connection therewith.
                                 Determining certain property is surplus and
R012009              1-20-09     authorizing a donation to the Hamilton County
                                 Sheriff s Office.
R012009A             1-20-09     Encumbering funds.
R020209              2-2-09      Determining certain property is surplus
R020209A             2-2-09      Approving certain matters in connection with
                                 Clarian Allocation area
R020209B             2-2-09      Bond issue approval and proceeds appropriation
                                 Clarian Health
R021609              2-16-09     Authorizing donation of town vehicle to Police
                                 Department
R021609A             2-16-09     Providing for an interfund loan
R021609B             2-16-09     Provision for proceeds of sale to Hoosier
                                 Heritage Port Authority
R021609C             2-16-09     Altering the speed limit schedule
R021609D             2-16-09     Altering through streets and stop intersection
                                 schedule
R021609E             2-16-09     Grant to S.P.O.R.T.S. for enhancing Mudsock
                                 Fields
R030209              3-2-09      Additional appropriation resolution - grants
                                 administration
R030209A             3-2-09      Additional appropriation resolution - sewer
                                 operations
R030209B             3-2-09      Additional appropriation resolution - police
                                 grant fund
R030209C             3-2-09      Voluntary Employee Benefit Association plan
                                 and fund
R030209D             3-2-09      Surplus police vehicle transfer to J. Everett
                                 Light Career Center
R030209E             3-2-09      Surplus police vehicle transfer to Washington
                                 Township
R030209F             4-20-09     Adopting schedule of stormwater rates and
                                 charges
R031609              3-16-09     Saxony property allocation area resolution
                                 approval request
R031609A             3-16-09     Interfund loan resolution approval request
R032709              3-27-09     Approving first amendment to Econ Development
                                 agreement with Interchange Diversified, LLC
R032709A             3-27-09     Approving a reimbursement agreement and
                                 mortgage with Interchange Diversified, LLC
R040609              4-6-09      Transferring funds
R040609B             4-6-09      Adopting fiscal plan for annexation
R040609C             4-6-09      Resolution in support of Sallie Mae
R042009              4-20-09     Resolution in support of Indiana State House
                                 Bill 1660
R050409              5-4-09      Surplus town property conveyed to Hamilton
                                 County Sheriff s office
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
R051809              5-18-09     the amendment of the Olio Road/I-69 Economic
                                 Development Area
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
R051809A             5-18-09     the establishment of an economic area and
                                 allocation area and the approval of an
                                 economic development plan for said area
R051809B             5-18-09     Confirming the Sunbeam (Delaware Commons) Road
                                 Impact Fee Agreement
R060109              6-01-09     Transferring funds
R060109A             6-1-09      Authorizing the transfer of interests in real
                                 estate to the Fishers Redevelopment Authority
R061509              6-15-09     Appropriations resolution
R061509A             6-15-09     Approving issuance of bonds of the Town of
                                 Fishers Redevelopment District
R070609              7-6-09      Transferring funds
R070609A             7-6-09      Concerning approving a sole provider
R072009              7-20-09     Determining certain property is surplus
R072009A             7-20-09     Determining certain property is surplus
R072009B             7-20-09     Regarding cable franchise fees
R072009D             7-20-09     Regarding tax abatement
R072009F             7-20-09     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 the Bayetakos property
R072009G             7-20-09     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 the Wallace property
R080309              8-3-09      Transferring funds
R080309A             8-3-09      Determining that certain property is surplus
R081709              8-17-09     Determining that certain property is surplus
R092109              9-21-09     Determining that certain property is surplus
R092109A             9-21-09     Transferring funds
R100709              10-7-09     Transferring funds
R100709A             10-7-09     Petition to appeal 2010 maximum levy three
                                 year growth factor
R101909              10-19-09    Appropriations resolution
R110209              11-2-09     Transferring funds
R110209A             11-2-09     Encouraging preservation of Indiana jobs -
                                 Sallie Mae
R110209B             11-2-09     Electing to enlarge participation in the
                                 Public Employees Retirement Fund
R110209C             11-2-09     Appropriations resolution
R120709              12-7-09     Transferring funds
R120709A             12-7-09     Confirming that certain property is surplus
R120709B             12-7-09     Confirming the streets and roads within the
                                 town
R122109              12-21-09    Transferring funds
R122109B             12-21-09    Adding stop intersection
R122109C             12-21-09    Approving Design and Construction Coordination
                                 Agreement
R122109D             12-21-09    Amending speed limit schedule
R123009              12-30-09    Transferring funds
R020110              2-1-10      Additional appropriation
R020110A             2-1-10      Transferring funds
                                 Authorizing a transfer of 28 Panasonic laptops
R030110              3-1-10      to a governmental organization and declaring
                                 two vehicles as surplus
                                 Providing for the submission of record
R030110A             3-1-10      drawings and the standardization of the
                                 digital information submittal format
R031510              3-15-10     Transferring funds
R031510A             3-15-10     Authorizing a transfer of a vehicle to a
                                 governmental organization
R032510              3-25-10     Determining certain property is surplus
                                 Approving an economic development agreement
R032510A             3-25-10     with Fishers Automotive Property, LLC and
                                 certain other matters in connection therewith
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
R032510B             3-25-10     the establishment of an economic development
                                 area and allocation areas and the approval of
                                 an economic development plan for said area
R032910              3-29-10     Authorizing a public hearing
                                 Providing for the participation of the
                                 proposed reorganization committee, if
R032910A             3-29-10     established considering the reorganization of
                                 Fall Creek Township, Delaware Township and the
                                 Town of Fishers, pursuant to IC 36-1.5 and
                                 following
R041210A             4-12-10     Making preliminary determination to issue
                                 bonds
R050510              5-5-10      Transferring funds
                                 Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
R050510B             5-5-10      property contiguous to the Town of Fishers,
                                 Indiana
                                 Providing for the participation on the
                                 proposed reorganization committee, if
R050510C             5-5-10      established, considering the reorganization of
                                 Fall Creek Township and the Town of Fishers
                                 pursuant to IC 36-1.05 and following
R060710              6-7-10      Regarding tax abatement
R060710A             6-7-10      Appropriation resolution
                                 Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
R060710B             6-7-10      the Hamilton Southeastern Cumberland Campus
                                 School Building corporation property
R060710C             6-7-10      Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 the Ares Properties LLC property
                                 Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
R060710D             6-7-10      the Hamilton Southeastern Cumberland Campus
                                 School Building (101st St.) corporation
                                 property
R060710E             6-7-10      Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 the Cyntheanne Park area properties
R060710F             6-7-10      Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 the Conner Prairie Foundation, Inc. property
R062110              6-21-10     Providing for interfund transfers
R062110A             6-21-10     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 the Barrington Estates properties
R062110B             6-21-10     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 the Eaton properties
R070710              7-7-10      Transferring funds
R071910              7-19-10     Approving an economic development agreement
                                 with Centre Properties, LLC
R071910A             8-2-10      Approving a design contract
R081610A             8-16-10     Transferring funds
R081610              8-16-10     Regarding tax abatement
                                 Adopting recommendations of Storm Water
R090710              9-7-10      Management Board establishing schedule of
                                 rates and charges
R122109A             9-20-10     Confirming adoption of Town of Fishers 2010-
                                 2016 strategic plan
R092010              9-20-10     Additional appropriations
R100410              10-4-10     Disposing of surplus property
R100410A             10-4-10     Transferring funds
R100410B             10-4-10     Tax abatement - Clarke Engineering Services
                                 Adopting fiscal plan for annexation of
R101810              10-18-10    property contiguous to Town of Fishers -
                                 Littleton Partners LLC
R101810A             10-18-10    Dedication of public right-of-way
R101810B             10-18-10    Approving certain matters in connection with
                                 the State Road 37 economic development area
                                 Approving first amendment to economic
R101810C             10-18-10    development agreement with Fishers Automotive
                                 Property LLC
R101810D             10-18-10    Amend speed limit schedule
R101810E             10-18-10    Petition to appeal for an increase to maximum
                                 levy
R110310A             11-3-10     Tax abatement - Nexus Valve, Inc.
R111510              11-15-10    Approving memorandum of understanding -
                                 Sunbeam Development - 126th Street
R111510A             11-15-10    Approving issuance of bonds of Town of Fishers
                                 Redevelopment District
R111510B             11-15-10    Transferring funds
R121310              12-13-10    Authorizing application submission for the
                                 Section 108 loan for Cottingham Estates
R121310A             12-13-10    Confirming the streets and roads within the
                                 Town of Fishers
R121310B             12-13-10    Transferring funds
R121310 (Joint Res.) 12-13-10    Plan of reorganization - Fall Creek Township
R123010              12-30-10    Transferring funds
R020711              2-7-11      Encumbering funds
R022111              2-21-11     Cable franchise fees
                                 Providing for referendum on the question of
R022111A             2-21-11     whether the Town of Fishers should become a
                                 city
                                 Adopting fiscal plan for annexation of
R030711              3-7-11      property contiguous to Town of Fishers -
                                 Northwest corner of State Road 238 and 136th
                                 Street
R030711A             3-7-11      Dedication of public right-of-way
R030711B             3-7-11      Dedication of public right-of-way
R032111              3-21-11     Disposing of surplus property
                                 Adopting fiscal plan for annexation of
R032111A             3-21-11     property contiguous to Town of Fishers - West
                                 side of Allisonville Road, north of 141st
                                 Street
R032111B             3-21-11     Allowing certain signage
R030211D             3-21-11     Transferring funds
R040411              4-4-11      Authorizing donation of turnout gear
R040411A             4-4-11      Transferring funds
R040411B             4-4-11      Additional appropriation
R051611              5-16-11     Disposing of surplus property
R050611A             5-16-11     Ratifying instruction to legal counsel to
                                 proceed with eminent domain proceedings
R060611A             6-6-11      Authorizing donation of laptops and radios
R060611B             6-6-11      Additional appropriation
R060611C             6-29-11     Third amendment to economic development
                                 agreement with Interchange Diversified
R060611E             6-6-11      Amend speed limit schedule
R062011              6-20-11     Resolution transferring funds
R062911              6-29-11     Resolution determining certain property as
                                 surplus
R072211              7-22-11     Additional appropriation
R072211A             7-22-11     Resolution transferring funds
                                 Transfer and additional appropriation of
R080111              8-1-11      proceeds from the transfer of 126th Street
                                 right-of-way to the Redevelopment Authority
                                 Resolution making a preliminary determination
R081511              8-15-11     to enter into a proposed lease for fire
                                 station projects
                                 Resolution determining preliminary issue of
R081511B             8-15-11     general obligation bonds for the completion of
                                 a park facility project
R081511C             8-15-11     Resolution transferring funds
                                 Accepting lease petitions, approving a form of
R081511A             9-6-11      lease and taking other actions in connection
                                 with fire station projects
R090611              9-6-11      Creating
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. V: Signalized Intersections
R090611A             9-6-11      Transferring funds
R091911              9-19-11     Adopting fiscal plan for annexation of Meyers
                                 property
R091911A             9-19-11     Adopting fiscal plan for annexation of
                                 Sollenberger Partners, LLC property
R091911B             9-19-11     Determining certain property as surplus
R091911C             9-19-11     Approving execution of lease
R091911D             9-19-11     Approving transfer of easement through Ritchey
                                 Woods Nature Preserve
R100311              10-3-11     Transferring funds
R100311A             10-3-11     Appropriation - Geist area park projects
R100311B             10-3-11     Amending speed limit schedule
R100311C             10-3-11     Approving issuance of Redevelopment District
                                 bonds for Geist area road projects
R100311D             10-3-11     Adopting town s municipal budget maximum levy
                                 Approving establishment of economic
R101711              10-17-11    development areas and approving the economic
                                 development plan for the areas
R101711A             10-17-11    Transferring funds
R110911              11-9-11     Determining certain property as surplus
R110911A             11-9-11     Appropriating additional town funds
                                 Adopting certain measures in furtherance of
R110911B             11-9-11     Americans with Disabilities Act transition
                                 plan
R110911C             11-9-11     Amending Standard Construction Details and
                                 Construction Specifications
R110911D             1-17-12     Confirming the adoption of the Fishers Medical
                                 Technology Corridor District Plan
R110911E             11-9-11     Transferring funds
                                 Supporting enabling legislation for authority
R112111              11-21-11    to conduct referendums to dedicate local
                                 revenue to transit and transportation
                                 alternatives
R112111A             11-21-11    Adopting a memorandum of understanding with
                                 Fishers Arts Council
R112111B             11-21-11    Transferring funds
R120511              12-5-11     Transferring funds
                                 Authorizing the termination of impact fee
R121911              12-19-11    intent/credit agreements between the town and
                                 those entities entered in such development
                                 agreements
R121911A             12-19-11    Adopting fiscal plan for annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town
                                 Altering
R121911B             12-19-11    Ch. 74, Sch. III: Speed Limits of the Fishers
                                 Traffic Code
R121911C             12-19-11    Confirming the streets and roads within the
                                 town
R121911D             12-19-11    Transferring funds
R122711              12-27-11    Transferring funds
                                 Determining that 2000 Pipe Hunter Trailer
R010312              1-3-12      Mounted Sewer Jet; model #:
                                 3524D1T9P3152XXP394365 is surplus
                                 Providing for approval and declaration of
R022012              2-20-12     intent to enter into financing agreements for
                                 the acquisition of equipment for the town
R022012A             2-20-12     Adopting fiscal plan for annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town
R022012B             2-20-12     Adopting fiscal plan for annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town
R022012C             2-20-12     Concerning the payment of fees and costs by
                                 the town for town services
R022012D             2-20-12     Additional appropriation for sewer fund
                                 Instruction to legal counsel to proceed with
R022012E             2-20-12     eminent domain proceedings associated with a
                                 fire station to be located in the southeast
                                 corridor in the town
R022012F             2-20-12     Transferring funds
R022012G             2-20-12     Regarding outstanding purchase orders
R030512              3-5-12      Additional appropriation
R030512A             3-5-12      Amending effective date of Res. R022012C
R030512B             3-5-12      Transferring funds
R031912              3-19-12     Regarding the expansion of an economic
                                 development area and an allocation area
R031912A             3-19-12     Regarding the expansion and consolidation of
                                 certain economic development areas
R031912B             4-2-12      Designating 12175 Visionary Way as an economic
                                 revitalization area
R031912C             4-2-12      Authorizing an enhanced tax abatement
R031912D             3-19-12     Approving an additional appropriation for the
                                 General Obligation Refunding Bonds
                                 Appropriating proceeds of the transfer of real
R031912E             3-19-12     estate interests to the Fishers Town Hall
                                 Building Corporation
R040212              4-2-12      Transferring funds
R040212A             4-2-12      Surplus property resolution
R040212B             4-2-12      Amending Ch. 74, Sch. III: Speed Limits of the
                                 Fishers Traffic Code
R040212D             4-2-12      Amending the Parks and Recreation fee schedule
R041612              4-16-12     Surplus property resolution
                                 Authorizing Hoosier Heritage Port Authority to
R041612C             4-16-12     conduct legal matters on behalf of the Town of
                                 Fishers
R050912              5-9-12      Surplus property resolution
R050912A             5-9-12      Surplus property resolution
R050912B             5-9-12      Transferring funds
R060412              6-4-12      Surplus property resolution
R060412A             6-4-12      Transferring funds
R061812              6-18-12     Rescinding the Telecommunications and
                                 Technology Advisory Committee
R061812A             6-18-12     Re-establishing cumulative capital development
                                 rate
                                 Pertaining to nepotism and contracting with
R061812B             6-18-12     the town by a relative in human resource
                                 management, procurement, and contracting
R061812C             6-18-12     Adopting a Fiscal Plan for the annexation of
                                 property - Moore Dentistry
R071612              7-16-12     Concerning the Hagerman Group s tax abatement
R071612A             7-16-12     Transferring funds
R071612B             7-16-12     Property purchase authorization
R080612              8-6-12      Transferring funds
R082012              8-20-12     Surplus property resolution
R082012A             8-20-12     Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-
                                 way - Riverplace Land, LLC
R082012B             8-20-12     Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-
                                 way - Riverplace WDS, LLC
R082912C             8-20-12     Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-
                                 way - Riverplace Shops, LLC
                                 Amending
R090412              9-4-12      Ch. 74, Sch. I: Through Streets and Stop
                                 Intersections of the Traffic Code
R090412A             9-4-12      Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-
                                 way - Southeastern Parkway and Olio Road
R090412B             9-4-12      Surplus property resolution
R090412C             9-4-12      Transferring funds
R091712              9-17-12     Surplus property resolution
R091712A             9-17-12     Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-
                                 way - Hawthorn Ridge at Talon Bluff
R091712B             9-17-12     Transferring funds
R091712C             9-17-12     To convey utility and right-of-way easement to
                                 NineStar Connect
R091712D             9-17-12     Amending
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. VI: Turning Movements
R091712E             9-17-12     Approving certain matters re: consolidated
                                 Fishers/I-69 economic development areas
R100112              10-1-12     Transferring funds
R100112A             10-1-12     Adopting municipal budget maximum levy appeal
R101512              10-15-12    Surplus property resolution
R102912              10-29-12    Designating funding source for acquisition of
                                 downtown property
R110712              11-7-12     Transferring funds
R110712A             11-7-12     Surplus property resolution
R111912              11-19-12    Additional appropriation
R11912A              11-19-12    Amending to road impact fee intent resolution
                                 and agreement
R111912B             11-19-12    Additional appropriation
R120312              12-3-12     Transferring funds
R121712              12-17-12    Adopting fiscal plan for Enlow and St. George
                                 Orthodox Church property
                                 Approving reimbursement agreement for the
R121712A             12-17-12    Midwest Center for Advanced Public Safety
                                 Training and Technology ( MCATT ) facility
R121712B             12-17-12    Confirming the streets and roads within the
                                 town
R121712E             12-17-12    Transferring funds
R010713              1-7-13      Surplus property resolution
R010713A             1-7-13      Surplus property resolution
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
R012213              1-22-13     the Consolidated Fishers/I-69 Economic
                                 Development Area
R020413              2-4-13      Surplus property resolution
R021813              2-18-13     Transferring funds
R021813A             2-18-13     Transferring funds
R021813B             2-18-13     Designating 11201 USA Parkway as an economic
                                 revitalization area
R021813D             2-18-13     Adopting an economic development agreement -
                                 Downtown Fishers FC, LLC
R021813C             3-4-13      Authorizing tax abatement for First Internet
                                 Bank
R030413              3-4-13      Surplus property resolution
R030413A             3-4-13      Designating 11201 USA Parkway as an economic
                                 revitalization area
R031813              3-18-13     Additional appropriation resolution
R031813A             3-18-13     Approving the expansion of the Fishers/ I-69
                                 Economic Development Area (TIF)
R040113              4-1-13      Transferring town funds
R041513              4-15-13     Surplus property resolution
R051313              5-13-13     Surplus property resolution
R051313A             5-13-13     Surplus property resolution
R051313B             5-13-13     131st right-of-way dedication
R051313C             5-13-13     Redevelopment Commission acquisition of 11736
                                 Maple Street
R052013              5-20-13     Surplus property resolution
R052013A             5-20-13     Real estate transfer of Fishers Redevelopment
                                 Authority - 106th Street interchange
R052013B             5-20-13     Statement of Benefits 2012 compliance - Clarke
                                 Engineering
R052013C             5-20-13     Statement of Benefits 2012 compliance -
                                 Hamilton Trace Paper
R060313              6-3-13      Surplus property resolution
R060313A             6-3-13      Appropriating funds for the town s vending
                                 machine
R060313B             6-3-13      Authorizing the transfer of funds to the State
                                 of Indiana INDOT 106st Street
R060313C             6-3-13      Statement of Benefits 2012 compliance - Nexus
                                 Valve, Inc
R060313D             6-3-13      Statement of Benefits 2012 compliance - DECA
                                 Financial Services, LLC
R060313E             6-3-13      Statement of Benefits 2012 compliance -
                                 Comcast of Willow Grove
R061713              6-17-13     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property - Poer
                                 Authorizing execution of the Project Agreement
R061713A             6-17-13     for the downtown mixed-use development project
                                 between the town and Fishers Redevelopment
R061713B             6-17-13     Transferring certain real property to the Town
                                 Hall Building Corp.
                                 Additional appropriation from the Stormwater
R071513A             7-15-13     Utility Fund for Retention Pond Dredging
                                 Project
R072913              7-29-13     Authorizing acquisition of Post Office Drive
                                 from the USPS
R080513              8-5-13      Authorizing a six-year property tax abatement
                                 for First Internet Bancorp
R080513A             8-5-13      Acquiring real property from the USPS
R080513B             8-5-13      Transferring real property to the Fishers Town
                                 Hall Building Corp.
R081213              8-12-13     Quitclaiming certain property to the Fishers
                                 Town Hall Building Corp.
R081913              8-19-13     Additional appropriation resolution
R081913A             8-19-13     Surplus property resolution
R090313              9-3-13      Transferring town funds
R090313A             9-3-13      Surplus property resolution
R090313B             9-3-13      Determining certain accounts uncollectable -
                                 sewer
R090313C             9-3-13      Determining certain accounts uncollectable -
                                 stormwater
R090313D             9-3-13      Additional appropriation resolution
R091613              9-16-13     Approving construction of a communication
                                 tower
R091613A             9-16-13     Transferring town funds
R091613B             9-16-13     Surplus property resolution
R091613C             9-16-13     Approving purchase of property at 11704 Maple
                                 Street
R100713              10-7-13     Adopting town s municipal budget maximum levy
                                 appeal
R100713A             10-7-13     Approving park impact fee agreement for Bella
                                 Vista park
R100713B             10-7-13     Approving economic development agreement -
                                 BlastMedia
R100713C             10-7-13     Approving economic development agreement -
                                 Bluebridge Digital
R102113              10-21-13    Transfer of town funds
R102113A             10-21-13    Approving land dedication and park impact fee
                                 agreement for Ambria park property
R1101413B            11-04-13    Transfer of town funds
R111813              11-18-13    Surplus property resolution
R120213              12-02-13    Transfer of town funds
R120213A             12-02-13    Approving project agreement - Meyer and Najem
R121613A             12-16-13    Endorsing the Fishers Community Art Master
                                 Plan
R121613B             12-16-13    Confirming the streets and roads within the
                                 town
R121613C             12-16-13    Authorizing purchase of property at 11634
                                 Maple Street
R122713              12-27-13    Transfer of town funds
R010614              1-8-14      Approving economic development agreement -
                                 OfficeWorks
R010614A             1-8-14      Approving economic development agreement -
                                 VoxLumen, Inc.
R010614B             1-8-14      Authorizing acquisition of certain real
                                 property
R012114              1-21-14     Additional appropriation resolution
R012114A             1-21-14     Authorizing acquisition of property at 11678
                                 Moore Street
R020314              2-3-14      Approving economic development agreement -
                                 Ossip
R020314A             2-3-14      Designating 7684 Crosspoint Commons as an
                                 economic revitalization area
R020314B             2-3-14      Approving a project agreement - Fishers Urban
                                 Development, LLC
R020314C             2-3-14      Accepting transfer of 11736 Maple Street from
                                 the Fishers Redevelopment Commission
R020314D             2-3-14      Transferring certain real property to the
                                 Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation
R021714              2-17-14     Transfer of town funds
R021714A             2-17-14     Encumbering funds for outstanding purchase
                                 orders
R021714B             2-17-14     Approving a project agreement - Fishers
                                 Redevelopment LR, LLC
R021714C             2-17-14     Concerning state funding for Hamilton County
                                 schools
R021714D             2-17-14     Confirming designation of 7684 Crosspoint
                                 Commons as an economic revitalization area
                                 Approving amendments to the declaratory
R021714G             2-17-14     resolution for the Consolidated Fishers/I-69
                                 Economic Development Area
R030314              3-3-14      Adopting Fishers Youth Assistance Program
                                 interlocal agreement with Hamilton County
                                 Opposing all state legislation contemplating
R030314A             3-3-14      the elimination of personal property tax with
                                 full replacement gurantee by the State of
                                 Indiana
R030314B             3-3-14      Approving a MOU with CIRTA to provide funding
                                 for the Fishers Express Bus Service
R031714              3-17-14     Surplus property resolution
                                 Approving the special contract for extension
R031714A             3-17-14     of sewer mains and facilities for Cottingham
                                 Estates between Hamilton Southeastern and the
                                 Town of Fishers
R031714B             3-17-14     Approval of contract for Cyntheanne South bike
                                 trail installation
R031714C             3-17-14     Authorizing the Town Manager to execute quotes
                                 for pot hole repair
R040714              4-7-14      Surplus property resolution
R040714A             4-7-14      Transfer of town funds
                                 Adopting the Fiscal Plan regarding the
R040714B             4-7-14      annexation of property known as the Cyntheanne
                                 Park South property
R040714C             4-7-14      Approving the purchase of property at 11608
                                 Jaycee Street
R040714D             4-7-14      Endorsing the Gateway and Way Finding Plan
                                 Transferring one-third interest in right-of-
R042114              4-21-14     way to Hamilton County and accepting one-third
                                 interest in right-of-way from Hamilton County
                                 Transferring one-third interest in right-of-
R042114A             4-21-14     way to the City of Noblesville and accepting
                                 one-third interest in right-of-way from the
                                 City of Noblesville
R050714              5-7-14      Transfer of town funds
                                 Adopting the Fiscal Plan regarding the
R050714A             5-7-14      annexation of property known as the Johnson
                                 property
R050714B             5-7-14      Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-
                                 way (Fishers Corner Subdivision)
R050714C             5-7-14      Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-
                                 way (Fishers Corner Subdivision)
                                 Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-
R050714D             5-7-14      way (along 136th Street, part of the Sedona
                                 Woods subdivision)
R050714E             5-7-14      Approving Compliance of Benefits Forms for
                                 2014 pay and 2015 tax year abatements
                                 Approving declaratory resolution designating
R051914              5-19-14     13801 Olivia Way, as an Economic
                                 Revitalization Area
                                 Declaring DECA Financial Services, LLC, not in
R051914A             5-19-14     substantial compliance and setting a public
                                 hearing for final determination
R060214              6-2-14      Transfer of town funds
                                 Designating 13801 Olivia Way as an economic
R060214A             6-2-14      revitalization area and providing a six year
                                 taxa abatement
                                 Approving an economic development agreement
R060214B             6-2-14      with Deer Creek Point MOB, LLC, for
                                 construction of an office building
R060214C             6-2-14      Approving Deer Creek Point MOB, LLC s,
                                 statement of benefits
R060214D             6-2-14      Approving a fee waiver agreement with Cardon &
                                 Associates, Inc.
R060214E             6-2-14      Approving acquisition of a utility right-of-
                                 way easement
R060214F             6-2-14      Authorizing the purchase of property generally
                                 located at 11608 Jaycee Street
R061614              6-16-14     Terminating a real property tax abatement
R061614A             6-16-14     Acceptance of dedication of a public right-of-
                                 way located along E. 116th Street
R070714              7-7-14      Transfer of town funds
R070714A             7-7-14      Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the town
R070714B             7-7-14      Designating 9999 E. 121st Street as an
                                 economic revitalization area
R070714C             7-7-14      Authorizing revision to interlocal agreement
                                 for the Fischer Youth Assistance Program
R070714D             7-7-14      Approving an eminent domain settlement for
                                 acquisition of real estate
R070714F             7-7-14      Accepting a transfer of real property from the
                                 Fishers Redevelopment Commission
                                 Designating 9999 E 121st Street as an economic
R072114              7-21-14     revitalization area and granting a two year
                                 vacant building tax abatement and a ten year
                                 personal property tax abatement
R072114A             7-21-14     Approving an economic development with
                                 Harthmark LLC, d/b/a Jarden Home Brands
R072114B             7-21-14     Approving Hearthmark LLC s, d/b/a Jarden Home
                                 Brands, statement of benefits
R072114C             7-21-14     Transferring certain real property to the
                                 Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation
R072114D             7-21-14     Transferring certain real property to the
                                 Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation
R072114E             7-21-14     Acceptance and dedication of a public right-
                                 of-way located along 104th Street
                                 Approving a first amendment to a project
R072114F             7-21-14     agreement with Fishers Urban Development, LLC,
                                 for a mixed use development
                                 Approving a first amendment to a project
R072114G             7-21-14     agreement with Fishers Redevelopment LR, LLC,
                                 for a mixed use development
                                 Approving an amended and restated agreement
R070714E             8-4-14      for impact fee credit; Saxony Beach and Lake
                                 easement; and maintenance and operation of
                                 Saxony Beach
R088414              8-4-14      Approving the purchase of approximately 0.131
                                 acres located at or about 13150 E. 96th Street
R080414B             8-4-14      Approving a second amendment to a project
                                 agreement with Fishers Redevelopment LR, LLC
R081814              8-18-14     Declaration and disposition of certain surplus
                                 property
R081814A             8-18-14     Authorizing a transfer of personal property
                                 from the Town of Fortville, Indiana
R081814B             8-18-14     Transfer of town funds
R081814C             8-18-14     Approving the terms of an economic development
                                 agreement with Sun King Brewery
R090214              9-2-14      Sale of surplus property
R090214A             9-2-14      Approving second amendment to project
                                 agreement (Yeager/KFC project)
R090214B             9-2-14      De-appropriation of town funds (general and
                                 CCD funds)
R091514              9-15-14     De-appropriation of town funds (Geist Impound
                                 Fund)
                                 Advocating hyberbaric oxygen therapy and other
R091514A             9-15-14     medical treatments and therapy for TBI and
                                 PTSD
R091514B             9-15-14     Designating 11899 Exit Five Parkway as an ERA
R091514C             9-15-14     Approving an EDA for Matt & Rachel, LLC dba
                                 Bub's Burgers & Ice Cream
R100614              10-6-14     Transfer of town funds
R100614A             10-6-14     Sale of surplus property
R100614B             10-6-14     Appropriating additional town funds
                                 Adopting the Fiscal Plan regarding the
R100614C             10-6-14     annexation of approximately 8.013 acres
                                 located at 13283 Cyntheanne Road known as
                                 Heritage Park (aka Hunters Run)
                                 Designating 11899 Exit Five Parkway as an ERA
R100614D             10-6-14     and authorizing a five year personal property
                                 tax abatement
R100614E             10-6-14     Approving Image One, LLC's Statement of
                                 Benefits
R100614F             10-6-14     Approving an EDA with Image One, LLC dba
                                 Awning Innovations
R100614G             10-6-14     Approving third amendment to project agreement
                                 with Urban Development, LLC (Yeager)
                                 Adopting the fiscal plan regarding the
R102014              10-20-14    annexation of approximately 67.7 acres known
                                 as Bridger Pines
R102014A             10-20-14    Designating 12034 Exit Five Parkway as an ERA
R102014B             10-20-14    Transfer of town funds
R110514              11-5-14     Transfer of town funds
                                 Dedicating right-of-way along 96th Street,
R110514A             11-5-14     fronting the proposed Bridger Pines
                                 Development, located east of Cyntheanne Road
                                 Dedicating right-of-way along 104th Street,
                                 east of Boulders Development and also along
R110514B             11-5-14     Cyntheanne Road, between 101st Street and
                                 104th Street, part of the proposed
                                 Steeplechase Development
R110514C             11-5-14     Approving third amendment to project agreement
                                 Dedicating right-of-way along 104th Street,
R111714              11-17-14    west of Cyntheanne Road, fronting the proposed
                                 Steeplechase Development
R120114              12-1-14     Designating 12034 Exit Five Parkway as an ERA
                                 (Roto Rooter)
R120114A             12-1-14     Approving Roto Rooter Statement of Benefits.
R120114B             12-1-14     Approving an EDA with Roto Rooter.
R120114C             12-1-14     Amendment for the Consolidated Fishers/I-69
                                 EDA.
R120114D             12-1-14     MOU for traffic signal installation at Arbor
                                 Village on 116th Street.
R120114E             12-1-14     Purchase of real property from Hamilton
                                 Southeastern Schools.
R121514              12-15-14    Adopting town's road inventory.
R121514A             12-15-14    Enlarging participation in the Public
                                 Employees Retirement Fund.
R121514B             12-15-14    Approving certain matters - Consolidated
                                 Fishers/I-69 EDA.
R121514C             12-15-14    Approving certain matters - State Road 37 EDA.
R121514D             12-15-14    Dedicating public right-of-way - 13401 Britton
                                 Park Road.
R121415F             12-15-14    Amendment of interlocal agreement with INDOT.
R122914              12-29-14    Transfer of town funds.
R012015              1-20-15     Supporting the Joint Hamilton County Public
                                 Safety Training Facility.
                                 Adopting the fiscal plan regarding annexation
R020215              2-2-15      of approximately 6.8 acres known as Taylor
                                 Woods and North Shore Properties (Kroger).
R020215A             2-2-15      Amendment to E-L Crosspoint Infrastructure
                                 Loan Agreement.
R020215B             2-2-15      Amendment to the Officeworks Services EDA.
R021615              2-16-15     Providing a waiver of fees (RE/MAX Ability
                                 Plus).
R031615              3-16-15     Rollover of outstanding purchase orders to the
                                 next calendar year.
R031615A             3-16-15     Transfer of town funds.
                                 Designating a property west of Olio Road and
R042015              4-20-15     South of 136th Street as an Economic
                                 Revitalization Area.
R042015A             4-20-15     Approving the purchase of 12175 Visionary Way.
R042715              4-27-15     Amending the city s traffic schedules.
                                 Authorizing the reconciliation and removal of
R051815              5-18-15     outstanding entries and unpaid checks from the
                                 city financial and accounting records.
R051815A             5-18-15     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property.
R051815B             5-18-15     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property.
R051815C             5-18-15     Approving amendments to the resolution for the
                                 Olio Road/I-69 Economic Development Area.
                                 Designating property west of Olio Road and
R051815D             5-18-15     South of 136th Street as an Economic
                                 Revitalization Area.
R051815E             5-18-15     Amendment to an Economic Development
                                 Agreement.
R051815F             5-18-15     Tax abatement compliance for the 2015 pay 2016
                                 tax year.
R051815G             5-18-15     Transfer of town funds.
R061515              6-15-15     Approving reimburseme nt expenditure s.
                                 Transferrin g real property to the Fishers
R061515A             6-15-15     Redevelopment Commission (12175 Visionary
                                 Way).
                                 Approving partial release of taxpayer
R061515B             6-15-15     agreement and guaranty and partial release of
                                 real estate mortgage.
R061515C             6-15-15     Releasing promissory note and real estate
                                 mortgage
                                 Appropriating additional city funds for park
R061515D             6-15-15     impact fees, road impact fees and continuing
                                 education.
R061515E             6-15-15     Exemption from the UDO regarding a sign
                                 request for Hamilton Southeaster n Schools.
R072215              7-22-15     Authorizing City Controller to transfer city
                                 funds.
                                 Adopting the fiscal plan regarding the
R072215A             7-22-15     annexation of approximately 22.45 acres known
                                 as The Reserve at Lantern annexation.
                                 Adopting the fiscal plan regarding the
R072215B             7-22-15     annexation of approximately 66.66 acres known
                                 as Whelchel Springs annexation.
R072215C             7-22-15     Designating 10194 Crosspoint Blvd. as an ERA.
R072215D             7-22-15     Designating 11671 Lantern Road and 0 Lantern
                                 Road as an ERA.
                                 Transferrin g property at 11671 Lantern Road
R072215E             7-22-15     and 0 Lantern Road to the City of Fishers
                                 Redevelopme nt Commission.
R072215F             7-22-15     Transferrin g personal property to the Fishers
                                 Redevelopment Commission.
R072215G             7-22-15     Approving first amendment to Economic
                                 Development Agreement (Deer Creek Point MOB).
                                 Approving interlocal agreement concerning the
R072215H             7-22-15     Hamilton County Public Safety Training
                                 Facility.
R072215I             7-22-15     Approving certain matters in connection with
                                 the State Road 37 EDA.
R072715A             7-27-15     Fat, oils and greases management program.
                                 Resolution to enter into a MOA with the US
R081715              8-17-15     Census Bureau and authorizing funding for a
                                 special census.
R081715A             8-17-15     Designating 12840 Ford Drive as an ERA.
                                 Designating 11671 and 0 Lantern Road as an ERA
R081715B             8-17-15     and authorizing personal property tax
                                 abatements.
R081715C             8-17-15     Approving the Nickel Plate Development LLC's
                                 Statement of Benefits.
R081715D             8-17-15     Approving Four Day Ray Brewing, LLC's
                                 Statement of Benefits.
                                 Approving the EDA agreement with Nickel Plate
R081715E             8-17-15     Development, LLC and Four Day Ray Brewing,
                                 LLC.
R092115              9-21-15     Transfer of city funds.
R092115A             9-21-15     Designating 12840 Ford Drive as an ERA and
                                 granting a personal property tax abatement.
R092115B             9-21-15     Approving Enterprise Marking Products
                                 Statement of Benefits.
R092115D             9-21-15     Approving road impact fee credit agreement.
R101915              10-19-15    Transfer of city funds.
R101915A             10-19-15    Approving First Amendment to Funding
                                 Agreement.
R101915B             10-19-15    De-appropriation of city funds.
R101915C             10-19-15    Approving MOU between Indianapolis Airport
                                 Authority and City of Fishers.
R111615              11-16-15    Transfer of city funds.
R111615A             11-16-15    Adopting Grace Community Church annexation
                                 fiscal plan.
R111615B             11-16-15    Adopting Whelchel Springs (Plan II) annexation
                                 fiscal plan.
R111615D             11-16-15    Additional appropriation for road impact fees
                                 and City Court.
R111615E             11-16-15    Transfer of interests in real estate to
                                 Fishers Redevelopment Authority.
R122115              12-21-15    Transfer of funds.
R122115A             12-21-15    Approving additional sewer and stormwater
                                 funds.
R122115B             12-21-15    Approving agreements with respect to State
                                 Road 37 improvements.
                                 Interlocal agreement with City of Indianapolis
R122115C             12-21-15    for improvements to 96th Street between
                                 Lantern Road and Cumberland Road.
R122115D             12-21-15    Interlocal agreement with Hamilton East Public
                                 Library.
R011916              1-19-16     Approving impact fee agreement.
R011916A             1-19-16     Approving 2016 municipal equipment lease
                                 purchase (Financing Agreement).
R021516              2-15-16     Encumbering city funds.
R021516A             2-15-16     Voiding outstanding checks.
R021516B             2-15-16     Ratifying 2015 year end transfers.
R021516C             2-15-16     Approving EDA with Braden Business Systems.
R021516D             2-15-16     Approving declaratory resolution designating
                                 8700 North Street as an ERA.
R021516E             2-15-16     Approving Braden Business Systems Statement of
                                 Benefits.
R021516F             2-15-16     Approving an EDA with Stanley Security
                                 Solutions.
R021516G             2-15-16     Approving a declaratory resolution designating
                                 0 Kincaid Drive as an ERA.
R021516H             2-15-16     Approving Ambrose Property Group, LLC's
                                 Statement of Benefits.
R011116              1-11-16     Confirming the streets and roads within the
                                 city.
R011116A             1-11-16     Amending the city traffic schedules.
R011116B             1-11-16     Declaring certain property to be surplus.
R012516              1-25-16     Declaring certain property to be surplus.
R022216              2-22-26     Dedication of public right-of-way at 9799 E.
                                 116th Street.
R022216A             2-22-16     Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 East
                                 126th Street.
R022216B             2-22-16     Dedication of public right-of-way at 8400 East
                                 126th Street.
R031416              3-14-16     Declaring certain property to be surplus.
R031416A             3-14-16     Approving an agreement for EMS and fire
                                 protection services.
                                 Designating property generally known as 8700
R032116              3-21-16     North Street as an economic revitalization
                                 area.
                                 Designating property generally known as 0
R032116A             3-21-16     Kincaid Drive as an economic revitalization
                                 area and authorizing a real property tax
                                 abatement.
                                 Designating property generally known as 10194
R032116B             3-21-16     Crosspoint Boulevard as an economic
                                 revitalization area and authorizing a personal
                                 property tax abatement.
R032116C             3-21-16     Approving Republic Services Customer Resource
                                 Central, LLC s SB-1.
                                 Transferring property generally known as 8700
R032116D             3-21-16     North Street to the Fishers Redevelopment
                                 Commission.
R032116E             3-21-16     Approving fourth amendment to project
                                 agreement.
                                 Approving agreement for transfer of real
R032116F             3-21-16     property by and between the city and Sunbeam
                                 Development Corporation.
R032116G             3-21-16     Appropriation resolution.
R032816              3-28-16     Declaring certain property to be surplus.
R041116              4-11-16     Declaring certain property to be surplus.
R041116A             4-11-16     Approving an agreement for EMS and fire
                                 protection services.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R041816              4-18-16     additional sewer funds and stormwater funds to
                                 the 2016 Municipal Budget.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R041816A             4-18-16     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Approving first amendment to agreement for
R041816B             4-18-16     transfer of real propety by and between the
                                 city and Sunbeam Development Corporation.
R041816C             4-18-16     Approving an impact fee agreement.
R050916              5-9-16      Authorizing sewage works bonds.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R051616B             5-16-16     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R051616C             5-16-16     Authorizing the transfer of interests in real
                                 estate to the Fishers Redevelopment Authority.
R051616D             5-16-16     Appropriation resolution.
                                 Approving a lease amendment and pledging the
R051616E             5-16-16     city s distributive share of county option
                                 income tax revenues to the payment of lease
                                 rentals.
R061316              6-13-16     Certifying the Fishers Fire Department s
                                 appointment to the City Fire Merit Commission.
R062016              6-20-16     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the city.
R062016A             6-20-16     Tax abatement compliance for the 2016 pay 2017
                                 tax year.
                                 Approving first amendment to Hearthmark LLC s
R062016B             6-20-16     d/b/a Jarden Home Brands Statement of
                                 Benefits.
R062016C             6-20-16     Approving Ardagh Glass, Inc s statement of
                                 benefits, personal property.
R062016D             6-20-16     Authorizing a personal property tax abatement
                                 for Ardagh Glass, Inc.
R062016E             6-20-16     Approving project agreement.
R062016F             6-20-16     Approving economic development agreement.
R062916              6-29-16     Selecting a certified public account to
                                 conduct an examination.
R062916A             6-29-16     Requesting opt out of State Board of Accounts
                                 examinations.
R071116              7-11-16     Amending the city traffic schedules.
R062026K             7-18-16     Approving fourth modification of the loan
                                 documents.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R071816              7-18-16     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
                                 additional park impact fees, cumulative
R071816A             7-18-16     capital development funds, and sewer
                                 improvement funds to the 2016 Municipal
                                 Budget.
                                 Amending memorandum of understanding between
R071816B             7-18-16     the Indianapolis Airport Authority and the
                                 city and approving a concept map.
R071816C             7-18-16     Approving economic development agreement.
                                 Approving an amendment to lease between the
R071816D             7-18-16     Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation and the
                                 Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
                                 Approving an amendment to lease among the
                                 Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation and
                                 Fishers Redevelopment LR, LLC and the Fishers
R071816E             7-18-16     Redevelopment Commission, and an amendment to
                                 lease between the Fishers Town Hall Building
                                 Corporation and the Fishers Redevelopment
                                 Commission.
                                 Approving an amendment to lease among the
R071816F             7-18-16     Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation and
                                 Fishers Urban Development and the Fishers
                                 Redevelopment Commission.
                                 Approving an exemption from the Unified
R071816G             7-18-16     Development Ordinance to allow the keeping of
                                 chickens at Riverside Intermediate School for
                                 education purposes.
                                 Designating property generally known as 12115
R071816H             7-18-16     Technology Lane as an economic revitalization
                                 area.
R071816I             7-18-16     Authorizing the transfer of interests in real
                                 estate to the Fishers Redevelopment Authority.
                                 Dedication of public right-of-way at 13476
R072516              7-25-16     Prairie Baptist Road, 0 Prairie Baptist Road,
                                 and 13294 Prairie Baptist Road.
R080816              8-8-16      Approving a contract for software
                                 implementation services.
R081516              8-15-16     Authorizing the transfer of budget funds into
                                 certain categories.
R081516A             9-19-16     Approving economic development agreement.
R081516B             8-15-16     Approving fee waiver agreement.
R081516C             8-15-16     Amending the text of the unified development
                                 ordinance.
R081516D             8-15-16     Amending the zoning map.
R081516E             8-15-16     Approving certified technology park agreement.
R091916              9-19-16     Additional appropriation for road impact fees.
R091916A             9-19-16     Additional appropriation for Geist Impoundment
                                 Fund.
R091916B             9-19-16     Adopting the provisions of I.C. 5-23 et seq.
R091916C             9-19-16     Regarding transferring of funds.
R091916E             9-19-16     Designating property known as 12115 Technology
                                 Lane as an economic revitalization area.
                                 Approving amendments to the declaratory
R091916F             9-19-16     resolution for the consolidated Fishers/I-69
                                 economic development area.
R091916G             9-19-16     Approving economic development agreement.
R091916H             9-19-16     Transferring certain real property to the
                                 Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation.
R091916I             9-19-16     Transferring certain real property to the
                                 Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation.
R091916J             9-19-16     Approving project agreement.
R101016              10-10-16    Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 Florida
                                 Road.
R101016A             10-10-16    Declaring certain property to be surplus.
R101716              10-17-16    Additional appropriation for continuing
                                 education.
R101716B             10-17-16    Transferring certain real property to the
                                 Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
R101716C             10-17-16    Approving economic development agreement.
R101716D             10-17-16    Approving amendment to economic development
                                 agreement.
                                 Approving proposed site layout and
R101716E             10-17-16    architecture for the APA office buildings
                                 located within Delaware Park.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R101716F             10-17-16    additional sewer funds to the 2016 Municipal
                                 Budget.
R101716G             10-17-16    Authorizing the transfer of budget funds into
                                 certain budget categories.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R112116A             11-21-16    additional sewer funds to the 2016 Municipal
                                 Budget.
R112116C             11-21-16    Authorizing the transfer of budget funds into
                                 certain budget categories.
                                 Approving right-of-way grant, road
                                 improvements and fee waiver agreement with
R112116D             11-21-16    Diamond Realty II, LLC, for the Harley
                                 Davidson Secondary Plat, located at the
                                 southeast corner of 126th Street and State
                                 Road 37.
                                 Approving memorandum of understanding with
R112816              11-28-16    IKEA Property, Inc., for road improvements to
                                 116th Street, Oak Drive and USA Parkway.
                                 Approving a scoping agreement with Hagerman
                                 Police Station, LLC, to develop, design, build
R112816A             11-28-16    and finance the city s police station and a
                                 public parking garage, and to remodel the
                                 interior of the city s current police station.
                                 Approving a professional services agreement
                                 with Malinowski Consulting, Inc., to document
R121216              12-12-16    for state and federal program administrators
                                 eligible expenses of the Fire Department in
                                 providing city-wide ambulatory services to
                                 eligible Medicaid beneficiaries.
R121216A             12-12-16    Dedication of public right-of-way at 0 Center
                                 Street
R121316              12-13-16    De-appropriatio n of city funds.
R121916B             12-19-16    Authorizing the transfer of budget funds into
                                 certain budget categories.
                                 Approving a project agreement with Thompson
                                 Thrift Development, Inc., to provide economic
                                 incentives for its investment of no less than
R121916C             12-19-16    $40,000,000 in redeveloping real property
                                 located east of Interstate 69 on 116th Street,
                                 including the construction of retail space and
                                 certain culinary accelerators.
R121916D             12-19-16    Approving the first amendment to Resolution
                                 R091916G.
R122216              12-22-16    Confirming the streets and roads within the
                                 city.
R122216A             12-22-16    Amending the city traffic schedules.
                                 Acceptance of dedication of right-of-way upon
R122216B             12-22-16    the completion of improvements to Reynolds
                                 Drive by Diamond Realty II, LLC, pursuant
                                 Resolution R112116D.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R011717              1-17-17     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Initiating a proposal to amend the zoning map
R011717A             1-17-17     by rezoning real estate to the C1 Commercial
                                 District.
R011717B             1-17-17     Affirming abatement.
                                 Certifying the Fishers Fire Department s
R012317              1-23-17     appointment to the city s Fire Merit
                                 Commission.
R012317A             1-23-17     Determining that certain property is surplus.
R021317              2-13-17     Determining that certain property is surplus.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R022017              2-20-17     certain city budget funds into certain city
                                 budget categories.
R022017A             2-20-17     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the city.
                                 Approving an interlocal agreement by and
R022017C             2-20-17     between Hamilton County, Indiana and the city
                                 regarding funding and administrative
                                 provisions of the Youth Assistance Program.
R022717              2-27-17     Determining that certain property is surplus.
R022717A             2-27-17     Determining that certain property is surplus.
                                 Accepting the recommendation that the city
R022717B             2-27-17     enter into a public private partnership with
                                 Hagerman Police Station, LLC.
R0301317             3-13-17     Amending the city s traffic and parking
                                 schedules.
R031317E             3-13-17     Determining that certain property is surplus.
R032017A             3-20-17     Approving the deficiency report for the
                                 Fishers Fire Department training facility.
R032017B             3-20-17     Approving the deficiency report for the
                                 Fishers Police Department parking garage.
R032017C             3-20-17     Initiating a proposal to amend the zone map of
                                 the city.
R032017F             3-20-17     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the city.
R032017G             3-20-17     Approving a public official bond.
R032717              3-27-17     Amending the city s traffic schedules.
R032017D             3-27-17     Transferring or exchanging property with a
                                 governmental entity.
R032717C             3-27-17     Approving a special purchase of workout
                                 equipment by the Fishers Fire Department.
R041017              4-10-17     Approving a services agreement with Ratio
                                 Architects, Inc.
R041017A             4-10-17     Approving a professional services agreement
                                 with RQAW, LLC.
R041717              4-17-17     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property st Legacy at Hunters Run.
R041717A             4-17-17     Additional appropriation of city funds.
R042417              4-24-17     Transferring certain real property to the city
                                 Redevelopment Commission.
R042417C             4-24-17     Acceptance of dedication of public right-of-
                                 way
R042417D             4-24-17     Determination of the Board of Public Works and
                                 Safety of certain property as surplus
R042817              4-28-17     Designating certain right-of-way strictly for
                                 underground or buried utilities.
R050817              5-8-17      Amending the city's traffic and parking
                                 schedules.
R050817A             5-8-17      Transferring certain real property to the city
                                 Redevelopment Commission.
R051517              5-15-17     Initiating a proposal to amend the zoning map
                                 in the R-2 Residential District.
                                 Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
R051517A             5-15-17     property known as the Preserve at Bridger
                                 Pines.
                                 Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
R051517B             5-15-17     the Brad Smith property, contiguous to the
                                 city.
                                 Approving a financing agreement for the city
R051517C             5-15-17     in regards to the purchase of certain personal
                                 property.
R051517D             5-15-17     Approving a revised project agreement with
                                 Thompson Thrift Development, Inc.
                                 Approving a perpetual and exclusive sanitary
                                 sewer easement agreement and temporary
R051517E             5-15-17     construction easement agreement between the
                                 Hamilton County Commissioners, City of
                                 Noblesville, City of Fishers and CWA
                                 Authority, Inc.
R051517F             5-15-17     City Council concerning tax abatement
                                 compliance for the 2017-2018 tax/pay year.
R052217A             5-22-17     Approving a license agreement with Springdale
                                 Estates Fishers, IN, LLC.
R071117              7-11-17     Approving non-profit contribution agreement
                                 between City of Fishers and Conner Prairie.
R071117A             7-11-17     Approving professional services agreement with
                                 Envoy Inc.
R071717              7-17-17     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the city (Culp Family).
                                 Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
R071717A             7-17-17     property contiguous to the city (Geist Estates
                                 Lot 1).
                                 Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
R071717B             7-17-17     property contiguous to the city (Geist Estates
                                 Lot 2).
                                 Designating property generally located at
R071717D             7-17-17     106th Street and Lantern Road as an economic
                                 revitalization area.
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
                                 an amendment to the declaratory resolution for
R071717E             7-17-17     the Consolidated Fishers/I-69 Economic
                                 Development Area, the creation of The Yard
                                 allocation area and the approval of a plan
                                 amendment for said area.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R071717F             7-17-17     certain city budget funds into certain city
                                 budget categories.
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
                                 an amendment to the declaratory resolution for
R071717G             7-17-17     the Geist Southeast Economic Development Area,
                                 Geist West Economic Development Area, and
                                 Geist North Economic Development Area and the
                                 approval of a plan amendment for said area.
                                 Accepting the recommendation that the city
R072417              7-24-17     enter into a public-private partnership with
                                 Hagerman Police Station, LLC for construction
                                 of a police station.
R072417A             7-24-17     Approving the purchase of an ERT vehicle.
R072417B             7-24-17     Approving an amendment to and extension of
                                 landscape maintenance services agreement.
R081417              8-14-17     Declaring certain capital assets to be surplus
                                 property.
R081417A             8-14-17     Declaring a natural gas fuel pump to be
                                 surplus property.
R081417B             8-14-17     Declaring a certain capital asset to be
                                 surplus property.
                                 Accepting the transfer of perpetual and
R081417C             8-14-17     temporary easements on the north side of
                                 Fishers YMCA, located at 9012 E. 126th Street.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R082117              8-21-17     police/forfeiture funds to the 2017 municipal
                                 budget.
R082117A             8-21-17     Authorizing the appropriation of funds out of
                                 the Local Option Income Taxes (LOIT) Fund.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R082117B             8-21-17     additional sewer funds to the 2017 municipal
                                 budget.
R082117C             8-21-17     Authorizing the appropriation of funds out of
                                 the Road Impact Fees (RIF) Fund.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R082117D             8-21-17     certain budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
R082117E             8-21-17     approximately 0.33 acres located outside but
                                 contiguous to the city.
                                 Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
R082117F             8-21-17     approximately 49.6 acres located outside of
                                 but contiguous to the city.
R082117G             8-21-17     Rejecting a text amendment to Ordinance No.
                                 100996B, the Grey Eagle Rezone.
R082117H             8-21-17     Approving the development of the Fishers
                                 Sports Complex.
                                 Making a preliminary determination to enter
R082117I             8-21-17     into a lease with the Fishers Town Hall
                                 Building Corporation for certain renovation
                                 projects.
R082117J             8-21-17     Approving a taxpayer petition requesting the
                                 leasing of certain facilities and real estate.
                                 Preliminary determination to enter into a
R091817              9-18-17     lease with the Fishers Town Hall Building
                                 Corporation for the project at the Nickel
                                 Plate District Amphitheater.
R091817A             9-18-17     Approving a taxpayer petition requesting the
                                 lease of certain facilities and real estate.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R091817B             9-18-17     certain budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Approving an exemption from the Uniform
R091817C             9-18-17     Development Ordinance to allow the keeping of
                                 chickens at Fall Creek Elementary School for
                                 educational purposes.
R100917              10-9-17     Declaring certain property as surplus.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R101617A             10-16-17    certain budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R101617B             10-16-17    Determining certain accounts uncollectable -
                                 general and sewer.
R101617C             10-16-17    Additional appropriations.
R101617D             10-16-17    Approving execution of a lease and related
                                 matters.
R101617E             10-16-17    Approving a second amendment to an economic
                                 development agreement dated July 18, 2016.
R102317              10-23-17    Approving a parking easement.
R102317B             10-23-17    Approving construction of a fire training
                                 facility.
R102317C             10-23-17    Approving the sidewalk repair procedure and
                                 the sidewalk list.
                                 Approving a special purchase of wireless
R102317D             10-23-17    network equipment and Police Department
                                 equipment.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R112017A             11-20-17    certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R112017B             11-20-17    court deferral user fee funds to the city s
                                 2017 municipal budget.
                                 Approving certain matters regarding the
R112017C             11-20-17    consolidation of the Britton Park Economic
                                 Development Area and the consolidated Fishers/
                                 I-69 economic development area.
R112017E             11-20-17    Amending the city s internal controls
                                 procedures.
                                 Approving an exemption from the Unified
R112017K             11-20-17    Development Ordinance for the Fishers High
                                 School District wireless communication
                                 facility at Sand Creek Elementary.
                                 Approving an exemption from the Unified
R112017L             11-20-17    Development Ordinance for the Hamilton
                                 Southeastern School District for construction
                                 of elementary school #13.
                                 Approving an exemption from the Unified
R112017M             11-20-17    Development Ordinance for the construction of
                                 a facility for the Department of Public Works
                                 maintenance garage.
                                 Appropriating proceeds for the transfer of
R112017O             11-20-17    real estate interests to the Fishers Town Hall
                                 building Corporation.
                                 Appropriating funds out of the proceeds of
112017P              11-20-17    bonds issued by the city for the purpose of
                                 paying the costs of the construction of a new
                                 public works building.
R121117              12-11-17    Determining that certain property is surplus.
R121117A             12-11-17    Confirming the streets and roads within the
                                 city.
R121117C             12-11-17    Approving special purchase of ladder truck.
R121117D             12-11-17    Approving software as a service agreement.
                                 Authorizing City Controller to transfer
R121817A             12-18-17    certain budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R121817B             12-18-17    Concerning the de- appropriation of city
                                 funds.
R121817C             12-18-17    Concerning the de- appropriation of city
                                 funds.
                                 Approving economic development agreement with
R121817D             12-18-17    The Fishers Town Hall Building Corporation and
                                 Thyssenkrupp Presta North America, LLC.
R121817E             12-18-17    Approving first amendment to park impact fee
                                 agreement.
R121817F             12-18-17    Designating property as an economic
                                 revitalization area.
R122117A             12-21-17    Approving participating employer agreement.
R122117B             12-21-17    Approving janitorial services agreement.
R122117C             12-21-17    Approving the 2018 Property and Casualty
                                 Insurance coverage.
R011618              1-16-18     Approving the purchase of a blanket surety
                                 bond and public official bonds.
R011618A             1-16-18     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the city.
R011618B             1-16-18     Adopting a fiscal plan for the annexation of
                                 property contiguous to the city.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R011618C             1-16-18     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R012218              1-22-18     Certain property determined surplus.
R012218A             1-22-18     Certain property determined surplus.
R012218B             1-22-18     Certain property determined surplus.
                                 Approving a memorandum of understanding
R012218C             1-22-18     between the city and CMN-RUS, INC., D/B/
                                 A Metronet.
R012218E             1-22-18     Memorandum of understanding fire and emergency
                                 response records data exchange and use.
R021218              2-12-18     Certain property determined surplus.
R021218A             2-12-18     Approving non-profit contribution agreements.
R021218B             2-12-18     Approving special purchase of wheel loader.
R021218C             2-12-18     Approving network access agreement.
                                 Establishing special police officers for the
R021218E             2-12-18     limited purpose of participating in the
                                 Emergency Response Team as tactical emergency
                                 medical supports.
                                 Approving agreement between owner and
R021218F             2-12-18     construction manager for amphitheater
                                 improvements.
R021918              2-19-18     Adopting a capital plan and identifying funds
                                 to be applied to certain projects.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R021918A             2-19-18     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R021918B             2-19-18     Re-establishing a cumulative capital
                                 development fund.
R021918D             2-19-18     Approving the rules of procedure for the
                                 Common Council.
R021918E             2-19-18     Approving the 2018 fiscal impact of tax
                                 increment financing.
R021918H             2-19-18     Approving second amendment to economic
                                 development agreement.
R022618              2-26-18     Approving purchase of uplifting equipment for
                                 2018 police interceptors.
R022618A             2-26-18     Approving the 2018 workers compensation
                                 coverage.
R022618D             2-26-18     Awarding a request for proposal for the Spark
                                 Fishers 5K walk/run.
R022618E             2-26-18     Approving an agreement with KSM Consulting for
                                 the Experiential Learning Phase I Project.
R022618F             2-26-18     Awarding a request for proposal for the Spark
                                 Fishers fireworks display.
R031218              3-12-18     Approving the special purchase of an access
                                 control system for city buildings.
R031218A             3-12-18     Approving the special purchase of police
                                 station video surveillance.
R031918              3-19-18     Additional appropriation.
                                 Preliminary determination to enter into one or
R031918A             3-19-18     more leases for a police station and public
                                 parking garage.
R031918B             3-19-18     Approving a taxpayer petition requesting the
                                 lease of certain facilities and real estate.
R031918C             3-19-18     Appropriation of certain bond proceeds for
                                 waterfront recreation purposes.
                                 Approving an exemption from the Uniform
R031918D             3-19-18     Development Ordinance to allow a gravel
                                 driveway and parking lot at the proposed Fall
                                 Creek Township Natural Area Park.
                                 Approving an exemption from the Uniform
R031918E             3-19-18     Development Ordinance to allow a gravel
                                 driveway and parking lot at the proposed 113th
                                 Street and Florida Road City Park.
R031918F             3-19-18     Approving transfer of certain real estate to
                                 the Fishers Redevelopment Authority.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R031918G             3-19-18     certain budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R040918              4-9-18      Certain property determined surplus.
R040918A             4-9-18      Approving a special purchase of a CCTV truck.
                                 Approving the special purchase of audio
R040918D             4-9-18      equipment and installation for the Fishers
                                 Amphitheater.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R041618              4-16-18     certain budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Approving thyssenkrupp Presta North America,
R041618C             4-16-18     LLC s SB-1 and specifying the applicable
                                 personal property abatement schedule.
                                 Approving a project agreement for the vacant
R041618E             4-16-18     property at 6 Municipal Drive and 1 Municipal
                                 Drive.
R042318B             4-23-18     Approving the special purchase of electronic
                                 storage for investigations.
R051418A             5-14-18     Amending an agreement with KSM Consulting for
                                 the experiential learning project.
R051418B             5-14-18     Approving the 2018 Neighborhood Matching
                                 Grants.
R05418C              5-14-18     Transferring a town vehicle to the Police
                                 Department.
                                 Authorizing City Controller to appropriate
R052118              5-21-18     Police/Forfeiture Funds to the city 2018
                                 Municipal Budget.
                                 Appropriating proceeds of the transfer of real
R052118A             5-21-18     estate interests to the Fishers Town Hall
                                 Building Corporation.
R052118C             5-21-18     Declaratory resolution designating property as
                                 Economic Revitalization area.
R052118D             5-21-18     Amending project agreement with Thompson
                                 Thrift.
R052118F             5-21-18     Declaratory resolution designating property as
                                 an Economic Revitalization area.
R052118J             5-21-18     Closing dormant Fund 228 Economic Develop Comm
                                 and transferring the remaining balance.
R052118K             5-21-18     Concerning tax abatement compliance for the
                                 2018 pay 2019 tax year.
R052918              5-29-18     Determining certain property is surplus for
                                 trade-in.
R052918A             5-29-18     Dedication of city property as public right-of
                                 way for 116th project.
R052918B             5-29-18     Dedication of city property as public right-of
                                 way for 116th project.
R052918C             5-29-18     Dedication of city property as public right-of
                                 way for 116th project.
R052918D             5-29-18     Dedication of city property as public right-of
                                 way for 116th project.
R052918E             5-29-18     Approving special purchase of an enterprise
                                 license agreement with Microsoft.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R061818              6-18-18     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R061818A             6-18-18     Additional appropriation resolution.
R061818B             6-18-18     Confirmatory resolution designating real
                                 property as an economic revitalization area.
R061818C             6-18-18     Approving AMP Northwest, LLC s statement of
                                 benefits; real property.
R061818D             6-18-18     Confirmatory resolution designating real
                                 property as an economic revitalization area.
R061818E             6-18-18     Approving AMP Northwest, LLC s statement of
                                 benefits; real property.
R061818G             6-18-18     Approving first amendment to economic
                                 development agreement.
                                 Approving a garage lease with respect to the
R061818J             6-18-18     Yard Project and addressing matters related
                                 thereto.
                                 Approving agreement for the donation,
R062518              6-25-18     acquisition and relocation of the Kincaid
                                 House.
R070918              7-9-18      Adopting stormwater management ordinance and
                                 amendments therto.
R070918A             7-9-18      Amending Standard Construction Details and
                                 Construction Specifications.
R070918B             7-9-18      Recommending adjustment of stormwater utility
                                 fees and charges.
                                 Denying proposals for Department of Public
R070918C             7-9-18      Works Comprehensive Building Assessment and
                                 Report Request for Proposals.
R071618              7-16-18     Additional appropriation for Motor Vehicle
                                 Highway Fund.
R071618A             7-16-18     Additional appropriation for Local Roads and
                                 Streets Fund.
R071618B             7-16-18     Additional appropriation for Bridge Impact
                                 Fees Fund.
071618            7-16-18     Amendment to 2018 salary ordinance.
                                 Approving professional services agreement with
R072318              7-23-18     Browning Day Mullins Dierdorf for Geist
                                 Waterfront Park.
R072318C             7-23-18     Awarding State Road 37 Marketing Coordinator.
R081318              8-13-18     Designating surplus property.
R081318A             8-13-18     Approving professional services agreement with
                                 Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, Inc.
R081318B             8-13-18     Approving purchase of snow plow.
R08018C              8-20-18     Designating Nickel Plate District as a Local
                                 Cultural District.
R082018D             8-20-18     Authorizing transfer of funds.
                                 Approved amended commitments concerning use
R082018F             8-20-18     and development of real estate for Brookschool
                                 Plaza, LLP.
R091018              9-10-18     Approving Nickel Plate Trail Master Plan
                                 Services Agreement - NBBJ, LP.
R091018A             9-10-18     Approving Nickel Plate Trail Master Plan
                                 Service Agreement - EX2.
R091018B             9-10-18     Designating surplus property.
R092418              9-24-18     Approving First Internet Bank for
                                 comprehensive financial services.
R102218              10-22-18    Authorizing transfer of funds.
R102218B             10-22-18    Approving issuance of bonds.
                                 Approving amendment to resolution for
R102218D             10-22-18    Consolidated Fishers/I69 Economic Development
                                 Area.
R102218E             10-22-18    Additional appropriation for Sewer Utility
                                 Fund.
R102218F             10-22-18    Approving Third Amendment to Economic
                                 Development Agreement.
R102218H             10-22-18    Approving First Amendment to Project Agreement
                                 with Fishers Ellipse LLC.
R102218Z             10-22-18    Approving purchase of switches.
R102218G             11-5-18     Making preliminary determination to issue
                                 bonds.
R111318              11-13-18    Dedication of public right-of-way.
R111318A             11-13-18    Dedication of public right-of-way.
R111318B             11-13-18    Dedication of public right-of-way.
R111318C             11-13-18    Rejecting bids for project: Old Police
                                 Department door and window replacement.
R111318D             11-13-18    Approving declaration, vacant property at 6
                                 Municipal Drive and 1 Municipal Drive.
R111318E             11-13-18    Approving land acquisition agreement.
R111918D             11-19-18    Approving Hub and Spoke Project agreement.
R111918F             11-19-18    Transferring certain real property to the City
                                 of Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
R112618              11-26-18    Amending city traffic and parking schedules.
R112618A             11-26-18    Approving Fire Station Nos. 91 and 93
                                 agreements.
R121018              12-10-18    Approving an employee benefits consulting
                                 agreement with HJ Spier Co, Inc.
R122018A             12-17-18    Approving financial agreement.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R121718B             12-17-18    certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R121718D             12-17-18    Designating 10500 Crosspoint Boulevard as an
                                 economic revitalization area.
                                 Approving first amendment to project agreement
R121718E             12-17-18    by and among the City Redevelopment Commission
                                 and AMP Northwest, LLC.
R121718F             12-17-18    Approving project agreement.
R121718G             12-17-18    Approving memorandum of understanding.
                                 Approving project agreement by and among the
R121718H             12-17-18    city Redevelopment Commission, Fishers Town
                                 Hall Building Corporation and Amp West, LLC.
R122118              12-21-18    Approving a special purchase of Pierce saber
                                 pumper.
R122118A             12-21-18    Approving a special purchase of ambulance.
R122118B             12-21-18    Confirming the streets and roads within the
                                 city.
R122118C             12-21-18    Amending the city traffic and parking
                                 schedules.
                                 Approving a master services and purchasing
R122118D             12-21-18    agreement with Axon for evidence storage,
                                 fleet hardware, and body worn cameras.
R122118E             12-21-18    Declaring certain property as surplus.
                                 Approving a memorandum of understanding and
R122118F             12-21-18    agreement with the Indiana Association of
                                 Indiana Counties regarding tax refund exchange
                                 and compliance system.
R011419D             1-14-19     Declaring certain property as surplus.
R012219              1-22-19     Authorizing transfer of funds.
R012219A             1-22-19     Approving purchase of a blanket surety bond
                                 and public official bonds.
R012219D             1-22-19     Approving DMC Insurance Inc.'s SB-1.
R012219E             1-22-19     Transferring real property to Fishers
                                 Redevelopment Commission.
R012819              1-28-19     Declaring certain property as surplus.
R012819A             1-28-19     Approving special purchase of rescue equipment
                                 for Fire Department.
R012819D             1-28-19     Declaring certain property as surplus.
R012819E             1-28-19     Certifying election of Police Merit
                                 Commission.
R021119K             2-11-19     Approving purchase of emergency upfitting
                                 equipment for 2019 police interceptions.
R021819              2-18-19     Authorizing transfer of funds.
R022519A             2-25-19     Declaring certain property as surplus.
R022519C             2-25-19     Declaring certain property as surplus.
                                 Naming Hagerman Construction Group as award
R022519E             2-25-19     recipient for construction manager at-risk
                                 services.
R031119A             3-11-19     Approving 2019 Neighborhood Matching Grants.
R031119B             3-11-19     Approving 2019 Tree Matching Grants.
R031119C             3-11-19     Approving 2019 worker's compensation
                                 insurance.
R031119D             3-11-19     Approving first amendment to land acquisition
                                 agreement.
R031119E             3-11-19     Approving third amendment to consulting
                                 services agreement.
R031819A             3-18-19     Re-establishing Cumulative Capital Development
                                 Fund.
R031819B             3-18-19     Approving second amendment to economic
                                 development agreement.
R031819C             3-18-19     Approving project agreement with Nickel Plate
                                 Properties, Inc.
R031819E             3-18-19     Approving interlocal agreement regarding Youth
                                 Assistance Program.
R031819F             3-18-19     Approving deficiency report for property
                                 located at Geist Waterfront Park.
R032519              3-25-19     Amending traffic schedule regarding stop
                                 intersections.
R032519A             3-25-19     Approving loan agreement between Indianapolis
                                 Fire Department and Fishers Fire Department.
R032519C             3-25-19     Approving dedication of right-of-way.
R032519D             3-25-19     Approving an agreement for EMS and fire
                                 protection services (Fall Creek Township).
R032519E             3-25-19     Approving an agreement for EMS and fire
                                 protection services (Delaware Township).
                                 Approving second amendment to landscape and
R032519F             3-25-19     maintenance services agreement with Brightview
                                 Landscapes, LLC.
R032519G             3-25-19     Approving 2019 Farmers Market agreement.
R040819              4-8-19      Declaring surplus property.
R040819A             4-8-19   Approving construction manager agreement for
                                 development of Fire Station 91.
R040819B             4-8-19      Approving construction manager as constructor
                                 agreement.
R041519              4-15-19     Approving deficiency report for Fishers AMP
                                 West parking lot.
R041519A             4-15-19     Approving deficiency report for Fire
                                 Department Station 91.
R041519B             4-15-19     Authorizing transfer of funds.
R041519C             4-15-19     Designating 10500 Crosspoint Boulevard as
                                 economic revitalization area.
R041519E             4-15-19     Designating 0 Exit Five Parkway as economic
                                 revitalization area.
R042219              4-22-19     Declaring surplus property.
R042219A             4-22-19     Ratifying contract for demolition of Fire
                                 Station 91.
R042219B             4-22-19     Awarding bids for Fire Station 91.
R042219C             4-22-19     Granting a non-exclusive utility easement for
                                 Arbor Pines.
R051319              5-13-19     Declaring surplus property.
R051319A             5-13-19     Dedication of property located at 12461 and
                                 12487 Reynolds Drive.
R051319B             5-13-19     Approving Nickel Plate Trail Master Plan.
R051319C             5-13-19     Approving professional services agreement/
R051319D             5-13-19     Approving special purchase of office
                                 furnishings.
R052019C             5-20-19     Transfer of budget funds.
R052019D             5-20-19     Designating 0 Exit Five Parkway as economic
                                 revitalization area.
R052019E             5-20-19     Appropriations
R052019F             5-20-19     Lease related to SPF 15, Inc. project.
R052019G             5-20-19     Approving Crew Carwash's SB-1.
R052019I             5-20-19     Tax abatement compliance.
R052819              5-28-19     Declaring surplus property.
R052819A             5-28-19     Declaring surplus property.
R052819B             5-28-19     Transfer of fire equipment to Green Township
                                 Fire Department.
R052819C             5-28-19     Transfer of fire equipment to Town of Shirley
                                 Fire Department.
R052819D             5-28-19     Awarding multiple bids for Fire Station 91.
R052019B             6-17-19     Approving exemption from UDO to Riverside
                                 Intermediate School.
R061719              6-17-19     Authorizing transfer of funds.
R061719E             6-17-19     Additional appropriations.
R061719F             6-17-19     Additional appropriations.
R062419              6-24-19     Declaring surplus property.
R062419A             6-24-19     Approving curb cut at 12244 E. 116th Street.
R062419B             6-24-19     Approving real estate purchase agreement.
R062419C             6-24-19     Declaring surplus property.
R070819              7-8-19      Declaring surplus property.
R070819A             7-8-19      Approving contracts for Geist Greenway, Phases
                                 1A and 1B.
R070819B             7-8-19      Approving quote to demolish existing
                                 structures located at Geist Waterfront Park.
                                 Approving an engineering agreement for the
R070819D             7-8-19      South Street Corridor Study and the Lantern
                                 Road Corridor Study.
                                 Approving a professional services agreement
                                 for the design of a water main and a sanitary
R070819E             7-8-19      sewer along Municipal Drive and South Street
                                 to accommodate new development within the
                                 Nickel Plate District.
                                 Approving supplemental services agreement for
R070819F             7-8-19      construction inspection regarding the Allison
                                 Road Project.
R071519              7-15-19     Authorizing transfer of funds.
                                 Approving an economic development agreement
R071519A             7-15-19     with Thompson Thrift for an office, a hotel
                                 and retail amenities.
R071519B             7-15-19     Additional appropriation.
R071519C             7-15-19     Additional appropriation.
R071519D             7-15-19     Additional appropriation.
R071519E             7-15-19     Correcting a scrivener s error in Ord. 041519,
                                 setting an effective date of January 1, 2020.
                                 Correcting a scrivener s error in Ord.
R071519F             7-15-19     041519A, setting an effective date of January
                                 1, 2020.
                                 Approving a professional services agreement
R073119              7-31-19     for the designing the redirection of a
                                 sanitary sewer within the Nickel Plate
                                 District.
R073119A             7-31-19     Approving a guaranteed saving contract for the
                                 downtown sanitary sewer redirection project.
R073119B             7-31-19     Approving a quote to purchase two new flat-bed
                                 trucks.
R073119C             7-31-19     Granting a nonexclusive utility easement for
                                 Arbor Pines.
                                 Approving a professional services agreement
R073119D             7-31-19     with Turquoise Wealth Management, LLC, to
                                 provide investment services for the city s
                                 fixed-income asset portfolio.
                                 Approving ancillary agreements as part of a
R073119F             7-31-19     project agreement with SPF15, Inc., for mixed-
                                 use development and a garage.
R073119G             7-31-19     Declaring surplus property.
                                 Awarding a rail bid for the Nickel Plate
R073119H             7-31-19     Railroad and approving an interim trails use
                                 agreement for the Nickel Plate Trail.
R081219A             8-12-19     Approving transfer of property to Indiana Law
                                 Enforcement Academy.
R081219C             8-12-19     Approving a special purchase of a freightliner
                                 truck.
R081219G             8-12-19     Transferring certain real property to the City
                                 of Fishers Redevelopment Commission.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R081919              8-19-19     certain City of Fishers budget funds into
                                 certain budget categories.
R081919A             8-19-19     Approving the deficiency report for the
                                 Fishers Fire Department Station 93.
R082619E             8-26-19     Approving curb cut at 10501 Allisonville Road
                                 for Fishers Fire Station 93.
                                 Approving easements with respect to the sale
R082619G             8-26-19     of a certain cell tower on Geist Waterfront
                                 Park.
R090919A             8-9-19      Approving road cut at 14461 Allisonville Road.
R090919B             9-9-19      The Board of Public Works and Safety
                                 determining that certain property is surplus.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R091619A             9-16-19     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R091619B             9-16-19     Approving economic development agreement.
R091619C             9-16-19     Approving economic development agreement.
R091619D             9-16-19     Approving third amendment to economic
                                 development agreement.
R091619E             9-16-19     Approving an increase in income tax rates for
                                 Hamilton County.
                                 Approving a lease between the Fishers Town
                                 Hall building Corporation, as lessor and the
R091619G             9-16-19     Fishers Redevelopment Commission, as Lessee,
                                 with respect to the stations project and
                                 addressing matters related thereto.
                                 Authorizing the transfer of interests in real
R091619J             9-16-19     estate to the Fishers Redevelopment Authority
                                 (Nickel Plate Trail Project).
R092319              9-23-19     Approving curb cut at 13577 E. 126th Street.
R092319              9-23-19     Approving a purchase of all wheel skid steer.
091619C              10-21-19    Appropriations and tax rates for the year
                                 ending December 31, 2020.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R102119              10-21-19    certain budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
                                 an amendment to the declaratory resolution for
                                 the consolidated Fishers/I-69 economic
R102119A             10-21-19    development area, the creation of a new
                                 allocation area, and the approval of a plan
                                 amendment for said area (Pullman Pointe
                                 Project).
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
                                 an amendment to the declaratory resolution for
                                 the consolidated Fishers/I-69 economic
R102119B             10-21-19    development area, the creation of a new
                                 allocation area, and the approval of a plan
                                 amendment for said area (the Stations
                                 Project).
                                 Board of Public Works and Safety approving a
R102819A             10-28-19    quote to replace the boiler at city services
                                 building.
                                 Board of Public Works and Safety approving a
R102819D             10-28-19    grant of easement by the Indianapolis
                                 Metropolitan Airport.
R102819E             10-28-19    Board of Public Works and Safety determining
                                 that certain property is surplus.
                                 Board of Public Works and Safety approving a
R102819F             10-28-19    bid to replace the concrete apron at Fire
                                 Station 95.
                                 Board of Public Works and Safety authorizing
R102819G             10-28-19    reimbursement to Hamilton Southeastern School
                                 Corporation for the purchase of a certain bus
                                 barn wash system.
R102819H             10-28-19    Approving an open road cut for 96th Street and
                                 Lantern Road.
R102819I             10-28-19    Board of Public Works and Safety approving an
                                 open road cut for 116th Street and Ikea Way.
                                 Board of Public Works and Safety regarding
R102819K             10-28-19    procedures for disclosing law enforcement
                                 recordings.
                                 Board of Public Works and Safety approving a
R102819M             10-28-19    special purchase and assemblage of storage
                                 containers for fire training purposes.
R102819N             10-28-19    Board of Public Works and Safety creating the
                                 Vibrant Neighborhood Matching Grant Committee.
R111219B             11-12-19    Approving a quote to construct a surface
                                 parking lot for AMP Northwest.
R112519              11-25-19    Approving a quote to replace a generator at
                                 the City Services Building.
R112519A             - -         Determining that certain property is surplus,
                                 and preparing to dispose of said property.
R112619B             11-26-19    Void outstanding checks.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R112619C             11-26-19    certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Approving a financing agreement for the city
R112619D             11-26-19    in regards to the purchase of certain personal
                                 property.
R112619E             11-26-19    Authorizing a transfer from the general fund
                                 to the rainy day fund.
R112619G             11-26-19    Awarding the 2020 non-profit grants.
                                 Designating property generally located at 8100
R112619H             11-26-19    E. 106th Street as an economic revitalization
                                 area.
R112619I             11-26-19    Approving Sitel's SB-1.
R112619J             11-26-19    Approving first amendment to project agreement
                                 with Nickel Plate North Properties, Inc.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety
R12919A              12-9-19     determining that certain property is surplus,
                                 and preparing to dispose of that property.
R12919B              12-9-19     The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
                                 2020 property and casualty insurance coverage.
                                 Designating property generally known as 0
R121619C             12-16-19    Sunlight Drive as an economic revitalization
                                 area.
                                 Designating property generally known as 10300
R121619E             12-16-19    Kincaid Drive as an economic revitalization
                                 area.
                                 Designating 8100 E. 106th Street as an
                                 economic revitalization area and authorizing a
R121619F             12-16-19    ten-year real property tax abatement for
                                 OnPoint Hub and Spoke, LLC, to complete the
                                 project.
                                 Designating vacant property located at 6
R121619H             12-16-19    Municipal Drive and 1 Municipal Drive as an
                                 economic revitalization area.
R122019              12-20-19    The Board of Public Works and Safety
                                 confirming the city s road inventory.
R122019B             12-20-19    The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
                                 a road cut at 14461 Allisonville Road.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety rejecting
R122019D             12-20-19    bids for the Amp NW parking lot, streetscape
                                 and Snorkley parking project.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
R011320              1-13-20     an open road cut for 126th Street for Fishers
                                 Church of Christ.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety creating
R011320A             1-13-20     the Nickel Plate Trail Screening and Privacy
                                 Grant Program.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
R011320B             1-13-20     an open road cut at 106th Street and
                                 Allisonville Road.
R012120              1-21-20     Approving the purchase of a blanket surety
                                 bond and public official bonds for the city.
                                 Authorizing the city controller to transfer
R012120A             1-21-20     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Confirmatory resolution designating certain
R012120B             1-21-20     property as an economic revitalization area
                                 and authorizing abatement (0 Sunlight Drive).
                                 Confirmatory resolution designating property
R012120C             1-21-20     generally located at 1 Municipal Drive as an
                                 economic revitalization area.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety of the
R012720              1-27-20     city determining that certain property is
                                 surplus.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety of the
R012720B             1-27-20     city determining that certain property is
                                 surplus.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Saafety
R012729C             1-27-20     approving the purchase of 15 new police
                                 interceptor SUVs.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
R012720D             1-27-20     a quote for Smock Creek Lift Station Influent
                                 Line rehabilitation.
R012720E             1-27-20     The Board of Public Works and Safety
                                 determining that certain property is surplus.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
R012720G             1-27-20     a quote for the purchase of four crew cab
                                 trucks.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
R012720H             1-27-20     the special purchase of Viewpoint Cloud
                                 Software.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
R021020B             2-10-20     a curb cut at 14569 E. 136th Street for the
                                 Citizens Energy Group.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
                                 a local public agency consulting contract with
R021020D             2-10-20     Gai consultants for design services related to
                                 intersection improvements at 106th Street and
                                 Hoosier Road.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
                                 a curb cut at 14569 E. 136th Street for
                                 Citizens Energy Group for a tie into the
R021020E             2-10-20     existing citizens energy group ductile iron
                                 water main located on the north side of the
                                 street for the Hamilton Southeastern Booser
                                 Station and Tank Project.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
R021020F             2-10-20     a curb cut at W 1000 North located on the
                                 south side of 96th Street for Deaton s
                                 Waterfront Services Development.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
R021020G             2-10-20     a curb cut located on 126th Street for
                                 Cyntheanne Meadows Development.
R021020J             2-10-20     Approving a quitclaim deed.
R012120E             2-17-20     Amending the rules of procedure for the Common
                                 Council of the city.
R0224020             2-24-20     The Board of Public Works and Safety granting
                                 a drainage easement for Cyntheanne Meadows.
                                 The Board of Public Works and Safety approving
R022420E             2-24-20     the city s 2020 Worker s Compensation
                                 Insurance.
R032320              3-23-20     Waiving procedures during disaster emergency -
                                 COVID-19.
R032320B             3-23-20     Extending local disaster emergency - COVID-
                                 19.
R042020              4-20-20     Transfer of funds.
R051820              5-18-20     Transfer of funds.
R051820A             5-18-20     Declaring into to reimburse expenditures
                                 related to Fire Station #91.
R051820B             5-18-20     Additional appropriations.
R051820C             5-18-20     Temporary transfer of funds.
R072020              7-20-20     Transfer of funds.
R072020D             7-20-20     Tax abatement compliance.
R072020E             7-20-20     Approving Genezen's SB-1.
R081720              8-17-20     Transfer of funds.
R092120              9-21-20     Transfer of funds.
R101920              10-19-20    Transfer of funds.
R101920D             10-19-20    Awarding 2021 non-profit grants.
R111620              11-16-20    Transfer of funds.
R111620D             11-16-20    Approving first amendment to declaration of
                                 covenants and easements.
R111620E             11-16-20    Designating property as an economic
                                 revitalization area and authorizing abatement.
R122120              12-21-20    Transfer of funds.
R122120A             12-21-20    Transfer of funds.
R122120B             12-21-20    Transfer of funds.
R122120C             12-21-20    Additional appropriation.
R122120D             12-21-20    Additional appropriation.
R122120E             12-21-20    Appropriating proceeds of general obligation
                                 bonds.
R122120F             12-21-20    Designating property as an economic
                                 revitalization area and authorizing abatement.
R011921              1-19-21     Transfer of funds.
                                 Designating certain property (8766 East 96th
R011921C             1-19-21     Street) as an economic revitalization area and
                                 authorizing abatement.
R021521              2-15-21     Transfer of funds.
R031521              3-15-21     Transfer of funds.
                                 Designating property as an economic
R031521B             3-15-21     revitalization area and authorizing tax
                                 abatement.
R041921              4-19-21     Transfer of funds.
R041921A             4-19-21     Additional appropriations.
R051721              5-17-21     Transfer of funds.
R051721A             5-17-21     Assessing tax abatement compliance.
R062121              6-21-21     Transfer of funds.
R062121B             6-21-21     Declaring an intent to reimburse expenditures.
R062121D             6-21-21     Creating a task force to study Council
                                 procedures.
R071921              7-19-21     Transfer of funds.
R071921C             7-19-21     Designating 0 Cumberland Road as an economic
                                 revitalization area and authorizing abatement.
R081621              8-16-21     Transfer of funds.
                                 Approving matters in connection with the
R081621A             8-16-21     Consolidated Fishers/I-69 Economic
                                 Revitalization Area.
R081621B             8-16-21     Confirming 0 Cumberland Road as an economic
                                 revitalization area.
R092021              9-20-21     Transfer of funds.
R101121              10-11-21    Transfer of funds.
R111521              11-15-21    Transfer of funds.
R111521A             11-15-21    Approving issuance and appropriation of
                                 general obligation bonds.
R111521C             11-15-21    Approving amended SB-1.
R122021              12-20-21    Transfer of funds.
R122021A             12-20-21    Additional appropriation.
R011822              1-18-22     Transfer of funds.
R011822B             1-18-22     Directing use of non-profit funds.
R022122              2-21-22     Transfer of funds.
R032122              3-21-22     Transfer of funds.
                                 Amending the declaratory resolution for the
R032122A             3-21-22     Consolidated Fishers/I-69 Economic Development
                                 Area.
R041822              4-18-22     Transfer of funds.
R041822D             4-18-22     Approving a change of tenants at 13095
                                 Publishers Drive.
                                 Adopting a preliminary strategic economic
R041822B             5-16-22     development plan for the Central Indiana
                                 Regional Development Authority.
R051622              5-16-22     Transfer of funds.
R051622A             5-16-22     Additional appropriation.
R051622B             5-16-22     Adopting a capital plan and identifying funds.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R062022              6-20-22     certain budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R062022A             6-20-22     additional local roads and streets funds to
                                 the city municipal budget.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R062022B             6-20-22     additional motor vehicle highway funds to the
                                 city municipal budget.
                                 Making a preliminary determination to enter
R062022C             6-20-22     into a lease with the Fishers town hall
                                 building corporation and approving matters
                                 related thereto.
R062022D             6-20-22     Concerning tax abatement compliance.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R071822              7-18-22     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Receiving and approving the petition of
R071822A             7-18-22     taxpayers requesting the leasing of certain
                                 municipal facilities and approving matters
                                 related thereto.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R081522              8-15-22     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R081522A             8-15-22     Awarding the 2022 non-profit grants.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R091922              9-19-22     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Amending the declaratory resolution for the
                                 for the consolidated Fishers/I-69 economic
R091922B             9-19-22     development area, creating a new allocation
                                 area, and approving a plan amendment for that
                                 area (96th Street and Allisonville Road
                                 Project).
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R091922C             9-19-22     additional funds from the Sewer Operating Fund
                                 to the city municipal budget.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R091922D             9-19-22     additional funds from the Sewer Bond Fund to
                                 the city municipal budget.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R091922E             9-19-22     additional funds from the Sanitary Sewer
                                 Inspection Fund to the city municipal budget.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R101022              10-10-22    certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R111422              11-14-22    certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R111422A             11-14-22    Appropriating the proceeds of Series 2022A
                                 General Obligation Bonds
R111422B             11-14-22    Appropriating the proceeds of Series 2022B
                                 General Obligation Bonds
                                 Approving amendments to the declaratory
R111422C             11-14-22    resolution for the consolidated Fishers/I-69
                                 economic development area.
                                 Approving statement of benefits submitted by
R111422D             11-14-22    Stevanato Group for personal property tax
                                 abatement for economic development project.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R121922              12-19-22    certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Determining that certain accounts are
R121922A             12-19-22    uncollectible and authorizing the City
                                 Controller to void the outstanding checks on
                                 these accounts.
                                 Approving amendments to the declaratory
R121922B             12-19-22    resolution for the consolidated Fishers/I-69
                                 economic development area.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R011723              1-17-23     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R011723A             1-17-23     additional general funds to the municipal
                                 budget.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R022023              2-20-23     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R032023              3-20-23     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R032023B             3-20-23     additional economic development funds to the
                                 municipal budget.
R032023C             3-20-23     Adopting the Allisonville Road Corridor Study.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R041723              4-17-23     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R041723A             4-17-23     Approving a project agreement.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R051523              5-15-23     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R051523A             5-15-23     additional sewer availability funds to the
                                 municipal budget.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R051523B             5-15-23     additional public safety local income tax
                                 funds to the municipal budget.
R051523C             5-15-23     Approving a project agreement.
R051523F             5-15-23     Approving certain parking fees for Geist
                                 Waterfront Park.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R061923              6-19-23     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R061923A             6-19-23     Approving the City of Fishers Community
                                 Center.
R061923B             6-19-23     Resolution concerning tax abatement
                                 compliance.
R061923D             6-19-23     Approving an economic development agreement
                                 between the city and Pure Pharmacy, LLC.
R061923F             6-19-23     Approving a project agreement.
R061923G             6-19-23     Approving a project agreement.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R071223              7-12-23     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Supporting the Hamilton Southeastern School
R071223A             7-12-23     Corporation s renewal of a referendum tax
                                 levy.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R082123              8-21-23     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R082123A             8-21-23     additional court record perpetuation funds to
                                 the municipal budget.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R082123B             8-21-23     additional continuing education funds to the
                                 municipal budget.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R082123C             8-21-23     additional sewer operations funds to the
                                 municipal budget.
                                 Resolution concerning the designation of a
R082123F             8-21-23     professional sports and convention development
                                 area.
R082123G             8-21-23     Awarding the 2023 non-profit grants.
R082123H             8-21-23     Approving field use fee.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R091823              9-18-23     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
                                 an amendment to the declaratory resolution for
R091823A             9-18-23     the consolidated Fishers/I-69 economic
                                 development area, the creation of a new
                                 allocation area and the approval of a plan
                                 amendment for said area.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R100923              10-9-23     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
091823               10-9-23     Appropriations and tax rates for the year
                                 ending December 31, 2024.
091823C              10-9-23     Adopting the 2024 salaries for officers and
                                 employees.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R112023              11-20-23    certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R112023A             11-20-23    Approving project agreement (The Union &
                                 Crossing Projects).
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R121823              12-18-23    certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Determining certain accounts uncollectable and
   R121823A       12-18-23    authorizing the City Controller to void the
                                 outstanding checks in these accounts.
R121823B             12-18-23    Appropriating proceeds of Series 2023 general
                                 obligation bonds.
R121823C             12-18-23    Approving first amendment to project agreement
                                 (Onpoint).
R121823D             12-18-23    Approving first amendment to project agreement
                                 (South Street).
R121823E             12-18-23    Approving first amendment to project
                                 agreement.
R121823F             12-18-23    Approving economic development agreement
                                 (Thermo Fisher).
R121823G             12-18-23    Approving SB-1 (Thermo Fisher).
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R011624              1-16-24     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R031824              3-18-24     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R031824A             3-18-24     additional sewer availability funds to the
                                 municipal budget.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
R031824B             3-18-24     additional municipal health funds to the
                                 municipal budget.
                                 Authorizing City Controller to transfer
R041524              4-15-24     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing City Controller to appropriate
R041524A             4-15-24     additional general funds to the municipal
                                 budget.
R041524B             4-15-24     Declaring intent to reimburse expenditures
                                 related to State Road 37 Project.
R041524F             4-15-24     Approving amended parking fees for Geist
                                 Waterfront Park.
052024               5-20-24     Amending Ord. 091823C, salaries for officers
                                 and employees.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R052024              5-20-24     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R061724A             6-17-24     Confirming the appointment of the city s
                                 Health Officer.
R061724B             6-17-24     Approving an economic development agreement
                                 (Pharma Entity).
                                 Designating an economic revitalization area
R061724C             6-17-24     and authorizing a personal property tax
                                 abatement and vacant building tax abatement
                                 (12001 Exhibit 5 Parkway).
R061724D             6-17-24     Concerning tax abatement compliance.
                                 To adopt and allocate funds for an outdoor
R061724E             6-17-24     fitness court as part of the 2024 National
                                 Fitness Campaign.
R061724F             6-17-24     Awarding the 2024 non-profit grants.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R071524              7-15-24     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R071524A             7-15-24     Authorizing the City Controller to appropriate
                                 additional Health Department funds.
R071524B             7-15-24     Approving an economic development agreement
                                 (INCOG phase II).
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R081924              8-19-24     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R081924A             8-19-24     Approving SB-1 and personal property tax
                                 abatement (INCOG phase II EDA).
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R090924              9-9-24      certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R090924A             9-9-24      Approving the use of surplus bond proceeds.
R090924B             9-9-24      Waiving compliance with abatement filing
                                 requirements (Thermo Fisher).
R090924E             9-9-24      Approving restated project agreement (City
                                 View).
090924               10-7-24     2025 appropriations and tax rates.
090924B              10-7-24     2025 salary ordinance.
                                 Authorizing City Controller to transfer
R100724              10-7-24     certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R100724A             10-7-24     Authorizing City Controller to appropriate
                                 additional road impact fee funds.
                                 Authorizing City Controller to appropriate
R100724B             10-7-24     additional park impact fee funds to the city
                                 budget.
                                 Authorizing City Controller to appropriate
R100724C             10-7-24     additional economic development funds to the
                                 city budget.
111824F              11-18-24    Amending 2024 and 2025 salary ordinances.
R111824              11-18-24    Authorizing City Controller to transfer budget
                                 funds into certain categories.
R111824E             11-18-24    Approving SB-1 and real property tax
                                 abatement.
                                 Authorizing the City Controller to transfer
R121624              12-16-24    certain city budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Determining certain accounts uncollectible and
R121624A             12-16-24    authorizing City Controller to void the
                                 outstanding checks.
                                 Authorizing City Controller to appropriate
R121624B             12-16-24    additional General Fund funds to the city
                                 municipal budget.
121624A              12-16-24    Amending 2025 salary ordinance.
011325A              1-13-25     Amending 2025 salary ordinance.
                                 Authorizing City Controller to transfer
R011325              1-13-25     certain budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Authorizing City Controller to transfer
R022425              2-24-25     certain budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Amending and restating economic development
R022425B             2-24-25     plan for the economic development area (Olio
                                 Road/I-69).
R022425C             2-24-25     Approving amended and restate project
                                 agreement (Union and Crossing Projects).
                                 Amendment to the declaratory resolution for
                                 the consolidated Fishers/I-69 economic
FRC 04R040125        3-11-25     development area, the expansion of an
                                 allocation area and reaffirming the
                                 development plan for said area.
                                 Authorizing City Controller to transfer
R031725              3-17-25     certain budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
R031725A             3-17-25     Approving field use fee agreement.
R031725B             3-17-25     Approving third amendment to project agreement
                                 (Andretti).
                                 Authorizing issuance of Senior Taxable
031725               4-21-25     Economic Development Revenue Bonds, Series
                                 2025.
031725D              4-21-25     Amending Ord. 091922E, which authorized the
                                 issuance of revenue bonds (Andretti Project).
                                 Authorizing City Controller to transfer
R042125              4-21-25     certain budget funds into certain budget
                                 categories.
                                 Approving certain matters in connection with
R042125C             4-21-25     an amendment to the Fisher/I-69 economic
                                 development area and expansion of an
                                 allocation area.
R042125F             4-21-25     Approving amended and restated project
                                 agreement (Union and Crossing Projects).
                                
 
 
TABLE VIII: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
Res./Ord. No. Date Description
Res./    Date Description
Ord. No.
         4-   Consenting to, acquiescing in and approving a consent and interlocal
R042094A 20-  agreement with the City of Noblesville.
         94
R070694  7-6- Providing for an interlocal agreement between the Town of Fishers and
         94   Delaware Township - fire services contract.
         9-   Authorizing execution of an interlocal agreement with the City of
O092595  25-  Noblesville as to the Old Historic Railroad Multi-Jurisdictional Port
         95   Authority.
         12-  Authorizing the execution of an interlocal agreement establishing the
O122095C 20-  Hamilton County Hazardous Materials Task Force.
         95
         10-  Authorizing joinder with The Central Indiana Regional Transportation
R 101597 15-  Authority.
         97
         12-  Providing for an interlocal agreement between the Town of Fishers and the
121698   16-  City of Noblesville.
         98
R070102  7-1- Providing for an interlocal agreement between the City of Noblesville and
         02   Hamilton County.
030204   3-2- Providing for an interlocal agreement between the Town of Fishers and the
         04   County of Hamilton.
         8-   Providing for an interlocal agreement between the Town of Fishers and the
—      15-  Intercoastal at Geist Subdivision.
         04
         11-  Providing for an interlocal agreement between The Town of Fishers and Fall
110804   22-  Creek Township.
         04
         11-  Providing for an interlocal agreement between the Town of Fishers and the
—      21-  City of Noblesville concerning the maintenance and construction of
         05   boundary roads.
         4-   Providing for an interlocal agreement between the Town of Fishers and the
—      17-  City of Noblesville concerning the use and ownership of a fiber optic data
         06   connection.
—      6-5- Interlocal agreement between the Town of Fishers and Hamilton County for
         06   small structure inventory and inspection.
              Interlocal agreement between Hamilton County and Town of Fishers for
—      6-5- participation in a joint enterprise of the governmental entities in
         06   Hamilton County for the coordination of multi-agency public safety
              programs within Hamilton County.
              Interlocal agreement between the Town of Fishers, the City of Noblesville,
         7-5- the Town of Westfield, Westfield Washington Schools, Hamilton County and
—      06   the Hoosier Heritage Port Authority for dedication of fiber optic cable
              resources for use by the local government entities in Hamilton and Marion
              Counties.
R110606C 11-  Authorizing the execution of agreements for interlocal cooperation and
         6-06 planning.
              Interlocal agreement between the Town of Fishers, the Prosecuting Attorney
         1-   of the 24th Judicial Circuit, Hamilton County, Indiana, and the Auditor of
121806A  16-  Hamilton County, Indiana, to provide law enforcement officers employed
         07   with the Town of Fishers greater access to a Deputy Prosecuting Attorney,
              with office space located on site at the Town of Fishers Police
              Department.
         06-  Interlocal agreement between the Town of Fishers and Hamilton County,
—      04-  Indiana concerning unwanted animals delivered to the Hamilton County
         07   Humane Society.
         6-   Interlocal agreement with Hamilton County regarding construction of
—      16-  Roundabout Project at the intersection of Olio Road, State Road 238 and
         08   136th Street and Bridge Project along Olio Road.
         7-   Interlocal agreement between the Town of Fishers and the City of
072009   20-  Noblesville for the purpose of providing a judicial forum for the
         09   prosecution of Fishers ordinance violations.
         2-   Approving an interlocal agreement between the Town of Fishers and City of
022111A  21-  Indianapolis for the financing, designing, construction and improvement of
         11   the intersection of 96th Street and Allisonville Road.
         12-  Approving an interlocal agreement with Hamilton County regarding purchase
R121613  16-  and lease of certain radio equipment to be used by the town’s Police and
         13   Fire Departments.
         2-   Authorizing an interlocal agreement with Hamilton County regarding the
R021714H 17-  Fishers Youth Assistance Program
         14
R030314  3-3- Adopting Fishers Youth Assistance Program interlocal agreement with
         14   Hamilton County.
R070714C 7-7- Authorizing revision to interlocal agreement for the Fischer Youth
         14   Assistance Program.
         12-
R121514F 15-  Amending an interlocal agreement with INDOT.
         14
         7-   Approving interlocal agreement concerning Hamilton County Public Safety
R072215H 22-  Training Facility.
         15
         12-  Interlocal agreement with City of Indianapolis for improvements to 96th
R122115B 21-  Street between Lantern Road and Cumberland Road.
         15
         12-
R122115D 21-  Interlocal agreement with Hamilton East Public Library.
         15
         3-   Approving an agreement with Fall Creek Township for EMS and fire
R031416A 14-  protection services.
         16
         4-   Approving an agreement with Delaware Township for EMS and fire protection
R041116A 11-  services.
         16
         2-
R022717C 27-  Approving an agreement for EMS and Fire Protection Services.
         17
         3-
R032717A 27-  Approving an agreement for EMS and Fire Protection Services.
         17
         5-   Approving a perpetual and exclusive sanitary sewer easement agreement and
R051517E 15-  temporary construction easement agreement between the Hamilton County
         17   Commissioners, City of Noblesville, City of Fishers and CWA Authority,
              Inc.
         9-
R091117  11-  Approving a utility reimbursement agreement for Morgan Drive Project.
         17
         11-  Approving an interlocal agreement between the city and Hamilton County
R112017D 20-  regarding a service agreement for E-911 services.
         17
         3-   Approving an agreement with Falls Creek for EMS and fire protection
R031218B 12-  services.
         18
         3-   Approving an agreement with Delaware Township for EMS and fire protection
R031218C 12-  services.
         18
         5-   Approving an interlocal agreement with the Cities of Fishers, Noblesville,
R052118I 21-  Carmel, Westfield; the Towns of Arcadia, Sheridan, Cicero; and Hamilton
         18   County, IN regarding police services.
         7-   Approving interlocal agreement regarding student employees, school
R071618D 16-  resource officers and exchange of information and records between Fishers
         18   Police Department and Hamilton Southeastern Schools.
         12-  Approving a memorandum of understanding and agreement with the Indiana
R122118F 21-  Association of Indiana Counties regarding tax refund exchange and
         18   compliance system.
         3-   Approving interlocal agreement regarding funding and administrative
R031819E 18-  provisions for the Youth Assistance Program.
         19
         11-  Approving an interlocal cooperation agreement with the City of Noblesville
R111521D 15-  regarding the provision of sewer service in certain portions of
         21   Noblesville.
         5-   Authorizing the city to become a member of the Central Indiana Regional
041822   16-  Development Authority.
         22
         6-   Approving an interlocal agreement between the city of Fishers and Hamilton
R062022E 20-  County concerning the construction, inspection, and maintenance of bridge
         22   #314.
         12-  Approving an interlocal agreement between the city and Hamilton County
R121922D 19-  concerning the reconstruction of Cumberland Road from 106th Street to
         22   116th Street.
         4-   Approving agreement by and between Hamilton Southeastern Schools and the
R041723B 20-  city regarding school resource officers.
         23
         5-   Approving an interlocal agreement concerning a one-time distribution of
R051523D 15-  public safety income tax proceeds.
         23
         8-   Approving an interlocal agreement with Hamilton County concerning the
R082131I 21-  distribution of certain local public health revenues.
         23
         8-
R082123M 21-  Approving first amendment to a project agreement.
         23
R100923D 10-  Interlocal agreement between Delaware Township and the City of Fishers
         9-23 concerning construction of 131st Street Nickel Plate Trail Connection.
         11-  Approving interlocal agreement between the city and Indiana Department of
R112023B 20-  Transportation for drainage and erosion control.
         23
         3-
R031824C 18-  Approving project agreement with Gray Eagle Golf LLC.
         24
         5-
R052024D 20-  Approving project agreement for Cityview.
         24
         5-
R052024E 20-  Approving donation agreement to Clay Township.
         24
         5-   Approving interlocal agreement between Clay Township, Delaware Township,
R052024F 20-  the city, and the Carmel Clay Board of Parks and Recreation for the joint
         24   financing of a pedestrian bridge.
         5-   Approving interlocal agreement between the city and Indiana Department of
R052024H 20-  Transportation for the State Road 37 and 141st Street intersection.
         24
         7-   Approving interlocal agreement between Hamilton County and the city for
R071524C 15-  landscaping and maintenance in the Olio Road and 116th Street medians.
         24
             
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
IC Section Code Section
IC Section                 Code Section
1-1-7-1                    95.22
3-8-1-26                   30.21
3-10-6 et seq.             30.01
3-10-6                     30.21,
                           30.30
3-18-8                     30.22
4-16-15 et seq.            34.22
4-21.5-3-7                 154.30
5-1-14-4                   34.44
                           30.08,
5-3-1                      51.08,
                           113.33,
                           160.06
5-4-1-18                   30.42
5-4-1-18(a)                30.42
5-13 et seq.               35.50
5-13-7                     35.50
5-13-9-5                   35.50
5-13-9-5.6                 35.50
5-13-9-5.7                 35.50
5-14-3-3(d)                35.60
5-14-3-8                   35.30
5-16-9-10                  72.16
5-22-9 et seq.             118.03
6-1.1-12.1 et seq.         160.04
6-1.1-12.1-1               160.05
6-1.1-12.1-2.5             160.04
6-1.1-12.1-3               160.05
6-1.1-18.5                 30.10,
                           34.44
6-2.5                      34.41,
                           34.43
6-6-11-1                   98.01,
                           98.02
6-9-44-1 et seq.           34.45
6-9-44-3c)                 34.46
6-9-44-4(a)                34.41
6-9-44-9                   34.45
6-18-2-137                 170.05
7.1-3-20-1 - 7.1-3-20-23   110.01
8-1-1 et seq.              114.01
8-1-2-1                    51.08
8-1-26                     94.17,
                           94.99
8-1-26 et seq.             94.17
8-1-26-6                   94.10
9-1-2                      90.02
9-1-2-1                    70.31
9-7-6                      90.03
9-9-1.1-5                  90.06
9-9-1.1-6                  90.08
9-9-1.1-16                 90.12
9-13-2-105                 118.01
9-13-2-167                 71.40,
                           73.01
9-17-1 et seq.             70.31,
                           90.02
9-18-12                    90.03
9-18-18                    72.16
9-18-22                    72.16
9-21-11 et seq.            73.02
9-22 et seq.               118.01
                           90.06,
9-22-1                     90.08,
                           90.12
9-25-2-3                   94.02
9-30-11-3                  36.08
10-14-3                    97.04,
                           97.05
10-14-3 et seq.            97.03
10-14-3-1                  97.02
10-14-3-1 et seq.          97.01
10-14-3-2                  97.02
10-14-3-12                 30.11
10-14-3-17(h)              97.02
10-14-3-22                 97.15
10-14-3-29                 30.11,
                           97.07
13-11-2-96                 97.02
13-11-2-97                 97.02
13-11-2-159                97.02
13-11-2-191                97.02
13-22                      30.08
13-23                      30.08
13-24                      30.08
13-25-4                    30.08
13-25-5                    30.08
13-25-5-8.5(f)             30.08
15-16-7-2                  95.20
15-20-1-3 et seq           91.08
                           32.05,
16-20 et seq.              34.20 ,
                           172.10
16-20-1-8                  32.05
16-20-1-9.5                32.05
16-20-1-9.5(a)(2)          32.05
16-20-1-26                 32.05
16-20-4                    32.05
16-20-4-8                  32.05
16-20-4-20                 32.05
16-20-8-1 et seq.          170.30
16-20-8-5                  170.31
16-21                      173.05
16-37-1-9                  Ch. 180
16-41 et seq.              172.09
16-41-7-1                  173.04
22-12-1-4                  154.15,
                           154.26
22-12-1-5                  154.26
22-12-1-14                 154.03
22-12-1-17                 154.03
22-13-2-7                  154.30
22-13-2-7(b)               154.25
22-15-3-1                  154.17
22-15-4                    154.03
24-4-19 et seq.            116.03
24-4-19-14                 116.05
24-4-19-15                 116.05
25-22-5                    173.05
25-37.5-1-2                116.05
32-30-6-7                  100.99
33-35 et seq.              37.01
33-35-1-3                  37.01
33-35-1-4                  37.01
33-35-2-4                  37.01
33-35-3-2                  30.33,
                           37.01
33-35-3-3                  37.02
33-35-5-9                  37.01
33-36-2-2                  36.02
33-36-2-3                  52.07
33-36-3-3                  36.04
33-37-7-8                  30.33
33-37-7-12                 30.33
33-37-8-4                  34.15,
                           36.09
33-37-8-4(b)               34.15,
                           36.09
34-24-1-1 et seq.          34.14
34-28-5-1                  131.98,
                           131.99
35-46-3.5(4)               91.02
36-1-3-8(10)               154.99
36-1-6-4                   91.24
36-1-6-9                   53.99
36-1-8-11                  51.70
36-1-20.2                  35.40
36-1-21                    35.41
36-1-24-1 et seq.          163.01
36-4-1.5-3                 30.02
                           30.03,
36-4-1.5-4                 30.21,
                           30.30
36-4-4-3                   30.20
36-4-4-4                   30.01
36-4-5-2                   30.21
36-4-5-3                   30.22
36-4-5-4                   30.23
                           30.24,
36-4-5-5                   113.02,
                           113.12
36-4-5-6                   30.25
36-4-5-9                   30.26,
                           30.27
36-4-6 et seq.             10.18
36-4-6-3                   30.03
36-4-6-8(a)                30.04
36-4-6-9                   30.31
36-4-6-10                  30.06
36-4-6-11                  30.07
36-4-6-12                  30.07
36-4-6-13                  30.07
36-4-6-14                  30.08
36-4-6-15                  30.22
36-4-6-16                  30.08
36-4-6-19                  30.10
36-4-7- et seq.            32.02
36-4-7-2                   31.01,
                           37.01
36-4-7-2(b)                31.02
36-4-7-3                   31.03
36-4-7-4                   31.04
36-4-8-14                  34.02
36-4-9 et seq.             32.95
                           32.96,
36-4-9-4                   32.97,
                           156.23
36-4-9-5                   32.100
                           30.40,
36-4-9-6                   32.96,
                           32.101
36-4-9-7                   32.96
36-4-10 et seq.            30.41
36-4-10-2.5                30.32
36-4-10-4                  30.31
36-4-10-5                  30.41
36-4-11-2                  32.101
36-4-11-4                  31.03
36-5-4-11                  118.03
36-7                       30.07
36-7 et seq.               30.08
36-7-4 et seq.             156.19
                           32.50,
36-7-4-200 et seq.         32.51,
                           32.53,
                           150.10
36-7-4-207(b)              32.51,
                           156.22
36-7-4-214(a)              32.51
36-7-4-218                 32.52
                           96.03,
36-7-4-500 et seq.         150.05,
                           156.41,
                           156.62
36-7-4-511                 150.12
36-7-4-606                 156.19
36-7-4-607                 150.12,
                           156.19
36-7-4-608                 156.19
36-7-4-900 et seq.         32.57
36-7-4-901                 32.54
36-7-4-902                 156.24
36-7-4-902(a)              32.55,
                           32.58
36-7-4-906                 32.56,
                           32.59
36-7-4-906(a)              32.58
36-7-4-1000 et seq.        156.99
36-7-4-1210(b)             156.24
                           96.03,
                           96.12,
                           96.13 ,
                           156.41,
36-7-4-1300 et seq.        156.51,
                           156.52,
                           156.62,
                           156.71,
                           156.72
36-7-4-1312                32.66
36-7-4-1312(b)             32.65
                           96.05,
36-7-4-1313                156.43,
                           156.64
                           96.02,
36-7-4-1316                156.40,
                           156.61
                           96.11,
36-7-4-1317                156.49,
                           156.70
                           96.03,
36-7-4-1318                156.41,
                           156.62
                           96.09,
36-7-4-1320                156.47,
                           156.68
                           96.09,
36-7-4-1321                156.47,
                           156.68
                           96.09,
36-7-4-1322                156.47,
                           156.68
                           96.02,
36-7-4-1322(g)             156.40,
                           156.61
                           96.06,
36-7-4-1323                156.44,
                           156.65
                           96.06,
36-7-4-1324(a),(b),(c),(d) 156.44,
                           156.65
                           96.07,
36-7-4-1325                156.45,
                           156.66
36-7-4-1329(c)             96.10
                           96.10,
36-7-4-1332(e)             156.48,
                           156.69
                           96.05,
36-7-4-1335                156.43,
                           156.64
36-7-4-1338                96.09,
                           156.50
36-7-4-1340                96.01,
                           156.60
36-7-9 et seq.             159.15
36-7-9-3                   159.02
36-7-9-5(b)                159.07
36-7-9-13                  159.10,
                           159.12
36-7-9-13.5                159.10,
                           159.12
36-7-9-25                  159.07
36-7-12 et seq.            32.25,
                           32.31
36-7-12                    32.25
36-7-12-1 et seq.          32.30
36-7-12-5                  32.32
36-7-12-9                  32.32
36-7-12-16                 32.37
36-7-14 et seq.            32.16
36-7-14-3                  32.17
36-7-14.5 et seq.          32.18
36-7-14.5-7                32.18
36-7-14.5-8                32.19
36-8-2 et seq.             33.20,
                           33.30
                           33.01,
36-8-2-3                   33.21,
                           33.31
36-8-3 et seq.             70.03
36-8-3                     32.102
36-8-3-2                   34.11
36-8-3-3(f)                33.12
36-8-3.5 et seq.           33.23,
                           33.34
36-8-3.5                   33.24,
                           33.32
36-8-3.5-6                 33.23,
                           33.33
36-8-3.5-9                 33.35
36-8-3.5-10                33.24,
                           33.34
36-8-3.5-11                33.24
36-8-3.5-11(a)             33.14
36-8-4-10                  33.10
36-8-8-3                   33.13
36-9-2-16                  51.08
36-9-6 et seq.             32.02.
                           32.102
36-9-6                     70.03
36-9-23                    32.90 ,
                           53.23
36-9-23-1 et seq.          50.08
36-9-23-21                 53.22
36-9-23-31 - 36-9-25-11    51.67
36-9-23-30(b)              172.05
36-10-2-2                  32.01
                           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.             Date Passed Code Section
R 1-3-83             - -         T.S.O. VII
R 3-7-83             - -         T.S.O. VII
R 060484             - -         T.S.O. VII
R 120984             - -         T.S.O. VII
R 120984A            - -         T.S.O. VII
R 011685             - -         T.S.O. VII
R 080686             - -         T.S.O. VII
R 120386             - -         T.S.O. VII
R 012088             - -         T.S.O. VII
R 012088A            - -         T.S.O. VII
R 061588             - -         T.S.O. VII
R 081788A            - -         T.S.O. VII
R 051789             - -         T.S.O. VII
R 90                 - -         T.S.O. VII
R 082290             - -         T.S.O. VII
R 100291             - -         Chapter 74, Sch. I
R 110691A            11-6-91     Chapter 74, Sch. I
R 052092C            5-20-92     Ch. 75, Sch. I
R 070192             7-1-92      150.06
R 060792             6-17-92     T.S.O. IV
R 071592             7-15-92     34.03,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R 100792A            10-7-92     T.S.O. VII
R 120992B            12-9-92     T.S.O. VII
R 120992C            12-9-92     Ch. 74, Sch. I
R 050593A            5-5-93      Ch. 74, Sch. I
R 072193A            7-21-93     T.S.O. VII
R 080493             8-4-93      Ch. 74, Sch. I
R 080493A            8-4-93      T.S.O. VII
R 100693A            10-6-93     T.S.O. VII
R 102093A            10-20-93    Ch. 74, Sch. I
R 102093B            10-20-93    Ch. 74, Sch. I
R 121593             12-15-93    T.S.O. VII
R 042094A            4-20-94     T.S.O. VIII
R 060894A            6-8-94      Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                                 II
R 081794             8-17-94     T.S.O. VII
R 090794             9-7-94      T.S.O. VII
R 070694             7-6-94      T.S.O. VIII
R 070694A            7-6-94      T.S.O. VII
R 1995-01            2-15-95     T.S.O. VII
R 030195             3-1-95      T.S.O. VII
R 031595             3-15-95     T.S.O. VII
--                   3-20-95     T.S.O. VII
R 040595             4-5-95      T.S.O. VII
R 041995             4-19-95     T.S.O. VII
R 041995A            4-19-95     T.S.O. VII
R 051895             5-18-95     T.S.O. VII
R 060795B            6-7-95      T.S.O. VII
R 071995             7-19-95     T.S.O. VII
R 060795             6-7-95      T.S.O. VII
R 060795C            6-7-95      T.S.O. VII
R 101895A            10-18-95    T.S.O. VII
--                   10-25-95    T.S.O. V
R 111595A            11-15-95    Ch. 74, Sch. I
R 122095A            12-20-95    T.S.O. VII
R 011096             1-10-96     T.S.O. VII
R 011096A            1-10-96     T.S.O. VII
R 020796             2-7-96      T.S.O. VII
R 020796A            2-7-96      T.S.O. VII
R 020796B            3-20-96     T.S.O. VII
R 030696             3-6-96      T.S.O. VII
R 040396             4-3-96      T.S.O. VII
R 040396A            4-3-96      T.S.O. VII
R 060596A            6-5-96      T.S.O. VII
R 060596B            6-5-96      T.S.O. VII
R 060596C            6-5-96      T.S.O. VII
R 061996             6-19-96     T.S.O. VII
R 072496A            7-24-96     T.S.O. VII
R 072496B            7-24-96     T.S.O. VII
R 082696             8-26-96     T.S.O. VII
R 090496A            9-4-96      T.S.O. VII
R 071096A            10-7-96     T.S.O. VII
R 102396C            10-23-96    T.S.O. VII
R 120496A            12-4-96     T.S.O. VII
R 121896A            12-18-96    T.S.O. VII
R 021997A            2-19-97     T.S.O. VII
R 021997B            2-19-97     T.S.O. VII
R 041697B            4-16-97     T.S.O. VII
R 062597             7-2-97      T.S.O. VII
R 062597A            6-25-97     T.S.O. VII
R 072397             7-23-97     T.S.O. VII
R 080697B            8-6-97      T.S.O. VII
R 101597             10-15-97    T.S.O. VIII
010798               1-7-98      Ch. 74, Sch. I
021098               2-10-98     T.S.O. VII
021898               2-18-98     T.S.O. VII
021898A              2-18-98     T.S.O. VII
030498               3-4-98      T.S.O. VII
031898               3-18-98     T.S.O. VII
041598               4-15-98     T.S.O. VII
R090298              9-2-98      T.S.O. VII
R091598A             10-7-98     T.S.O. VII
R100798A             10-7-98     T.S.O. VII
R100798B             10-7-98     T.S.O. VII
R012099              3-3-99      T.S.O. VII
R030399              3-3-99      T.S.O. VII
R040799              4-7-99      T.S.O. VII
R050599A             5-5-99      T.S.O. VII
R051999A             5-17-99     T.S.O. VII
R060799A             6-7-99      T.S.O. VII
R062199              6-21-99     T.S.O. VII
R092099B             9-20-99     T.S.O. VII
R101899              10-18-99    T.S.O. VII
R030600              7-17-00     T.S.O. I
R032000A             3-20-00     T.S.O. I
R061900B             6-19-00     T.S.O. I
R100200B             10-2-00     T.S.O. I
R100200C             10-2-00     T.S.O. I
R120400              12-4-00     T.S.O. VII
R120400A             12-4-00     T.S.O. VII
R121800              12-18-00    T.S.O. VII
R012201              1-22-01     T.S.O. VII
R012201B             1-22-01     T.S.O. VII
R022101B             2-21-01     T.S.O. VII
R030501A             3-5-01      T.S.O. VII
R041601A             5-7-01      T.S.O. VII
R050701              5-7-01      T.S.O. VII
061801B              6-18-01     T.S.O. VII
R070901              7-9-01      T.S.O. VII
R090401B             9-4-01      T.S.O. VII
R090401C             9-4-01      T.S.O. VII
R091701E             9-17-01     T.S.O. VII
R080601              10-15-01    T.S.O. VII
R110501              11-5-01     T.S.O. VII
R110501B             11-5-01     T.S.O. VII
R111901A             11-19-01    T.S.O. VII
R010702              1-7-02      T.S.O. VII
R012302              1-23-02     Ch. 74, Sch. I
R012302E             1-23-02     150.06
R012302F             1-23-02     150.07
R020402              2-4-02      T.S.O. VII
R022502C             2-25-02     150.08
R030402              3-4-02      T.S.O. VII
R031802              3-18-02     T.S.O. VII
R060302              6-3-02      T.S.O. VII
R060302A             6-3-02      Ch. 74, Sch. I
R070102              7-1-02      T.S.O. VIII
R090302A             9-3-02      51.08
R091602E             9-16-02     T.S.O. VII
R100702              10-7-02     T.S.O. VII
R102102N             10-21-02    Ch. 74, Sch. I
R030303              3-3-03      35.30
R030303A             3-3-03      Ch. 74, Sch. III
R010603A             1-21-03     T.S.O. VII
R012103A             1-21-03     T.S.O. VII
R030303              3-3-03      T.S.O. VII
R030303A             3-3-03      T.S.O. VII
R031703              3-17-03     T.S.O. VII
R040703              4-7-03      T.S.O. VII
R040703B             4-7-03      T.S.O. VII
R042103              4-21-03     T.S.O. VII
R042103B             4-21-03     T.S.O. VII
R050503              5-5-03      T.S.O. VII
R051903              5-19-03     T.S.O. VII
R051903A             5-19-03     T.S.O. VII
R051903B             5-19-03     T.S.O. VII
R060203              6-2-03      T.S.O. VII
R060203A             6-2-03      T.S.O. VII
R070703              7-7-03      T.S.O. VII
R070703A             7-7-03      T.S.O. VII
R072103A             7-21-03     T.S.O. VII
R072103B             7-21-03     T.S.O. VII
R072103C             7-21-03     T.S.O. VII
R090203              8-2-03      T.S.O. VII
R090203B             9-2-03      T.S.O. VII
R090203C             9-2-03      T.S.O. VII
R042103A             9-2-03      T.S.O. VII
R091503              9-15-03     T.S.O. VII
R091503A             9-15-03     T.S.O. VII
R091503B             9-15-03     T.S.O. VII
R091503C             9-15-03     T.S.O. VII
R091503D             9-15-03     T.S.O. VII
R092203A             9-22-03     T.S.O. VII
                                 35.30,
R100603A             10-6-03     96.14,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R102003              10-20-03    T.S.O. VII
R102003A             10-20-03    T.S.O. VII
R110303              11-3-03     T.S.O. VII
R111703              11-17-03    T.S.O. VII
R120103              12-1-03     T.S.O. VII
R120103E             12-15-03    T.S.O. VII
R121503              12-15-03    T.S.O. VII
R121503A             12-15-03    T.S.O. VII
R122903              12-29-03    T.S.O. VII
R122903A             12-29-03    T.S.O. VII
R122903B             12-29-03    T.S.O. VII
R012004              1-20-04     T.S.O. VII
R012004B             1-20-04     T.S.O. VII
R012004D             1-20-04     T.S.O. VII
R020204              2-2-04      T.S.O. VII
R021604              2-16-04     T.S.O. VII
R030204              3-2-04      T.S.O. VII
R031504D             3-15-04     T.S.O. VII
R031504E             3-15-04     T.S.O. VII
R040504              4-5-04      T.S.O. VII
R050504A             5-5-04      T.S.O. VII
R050504              5-17-05     Ch. 75, Sch. I
R051704              5-17-04     T.S.O. VII
R060704              6-7-04      T.S.O. VII
R060704A             6-7-04      T.S.O. VII
R062104              6-21-04     T.S.O. VII
R062104A             6-21-04     T.S.O. VII
R070704              7-7-04      T.S.O. VII
R070704A             7-7-04      T.S.O. VII
R071904A             7-7-04      T.S.O. VII
R071904              7-19-04     T.S.O. VII
R080204              8-2-04      T.S.O. VII
R081604              8-16-04     T.S.O. VII
R081604A             8-16-04     T.S.O. VII
R081604C             8-16-04     T.S.O. VII
R090704              9-7-04      T.S.O. VII
R090704A             9-7-04      T.S.O. VII
R090704B             9-7-04      T.S.O. VII
R090704D             9-7-04      T.S.O. VII
R091704              9-17-04     T.S.O. VII
R092004              9-20-04     T.S.O. VII
R092004B             9-20-04     T.S.O. VII
R092004C             9-20-04     T.S.O. VII
R100404              10-4-04     T.S.O. VII
R100404C             10-4-04     T.S.O. VII
R101804              10-18-04    T.S.O. VII
R101804A             10-18-04    T.S.O. VII
R110804              11-8-04     T.S.O. VII
R110804A             11-8-04     T.S.O. VII
R110804B             11-8-04     T.S.O. VII
R122004              12-20-04    T.S.O. VII
R122804              12-28-04    T.S.O. VII
R122804A             12-28-04    T.S.O. VII
R123104              12-31-04    T.S.O. VII
R011805              1-18-05     T.S.O. VII
R011805A             1-18-05     T.S.O. VII
R020705              2-7-05      T.S.O. VII
R020705C             2-7-05      T.S.O. VII
R022105              2-21-05     T.S.O. VII
R022105B             2-21-05     T.S.O. VII
R030705              3-7-05      T.S.O. VII
R030705A             3-7-05      T.S.O. VII
R040405A             4-4-05      T.S.O. VII
R041805              4-18-05     T.S.O. VII
R041805A             4-18-05     T.S.O. VII
R050205A             5-2-05      T.S.O. VII
R051605              5-16-05     T.S.O. VII
R051605C             5-16-05     T.S.O. VII
R051605D             5-16-05     T.S.O. VII
R050504              5-17-04     Ch. 75, Sch. I
R060605              6-6-05      T.S.O. VII
R062005              6-20-05     T.S.O. VII
R070605              7-6-05      T.S.O. VII
R071805              7-18-05     T.S.O. VII
R071805A             7-18-05     T.S.O. VII
R080105              8-1-05      T.S.O. VII
R080105A             8-1-05      T.S.O. VII
R080105B             8-1-05      T.S.O. VII
R080105G             8-1-05      T.S.O. VII
R081505              8-15-05     T.S.O. VII
R090605              9-6-05      T.S.O. VII
R090605A             9-6-05      T.S.O. VII
R090605B             9-6-05      T.S.O. VII
R091905C             9-19-05     T.S.O. VII
R100305              10-3-05     T.S.O. VII
R101705              10-17-05    T.S.O. VII
R101705A             10-17-05    T.S.O. VII
R100305              10-2-05     T.S.O. VII
R101705              10-17-05    T.S.O. VII
R101705A             10-17-05    T.S.O. VII
R110705              11-7-05     Ch. 74, Sch. III
R110705A             11-7-05     T.S.O. VII
R110705B             11-7-05     T.S.O. VII
R110705C             11-7-05     T.S.O. VII
R112105              11-21-05    T.S.O. VII
R112105A             1-18-06     T.S.O. VII
R120505              12-5-05     T.S.O. VII
R121905              12-19-05    T.S.O. VII
R121905A             12-19-05    T.S.O. VII
R122805              12-28-05    T.S.O. VII
R011806              1-18-06     T.S.O. VII
R011806A             1-18-06     T.S.O. VII
R022006              2-20-06     T.S.O. VII
R030606              3-6-06      T.S.O. VII
R041706              4-17-06     T.S.O. VII
R041706A             4-17-06     T.S.O. VII
R050106              5-1-06      T.S.O. VII
R051506A             5-15-06     T.S.O. VII
R060506A             6-5-06      T.S.O. VII
R060506E             6-5-06      T.S.O. VII
R060506F             6-5-06      T.S.O. VII
R060506G             6-5-06      Ch. 75, Sch. I
R060506H             6-5-06      Ch. 74, Sch. III
R061906              6-19-06     T.S.O. VII
R070506              7-5-06      T.S.O. VII
R070506A             7-5-06      T.S.O. VII
R071706              7-17-06     T.S.O. VII
R080706B             8-7-06      T.S.O. VII
R082106              8-21-06     T.S.O. VII
R082106A             8-21-06     T.S.O. VII
R090506              9-5-06      T.S.O. VII
R091806              9-18-06     T.S.O. VII
R091806A             9-18-06     36.08,
                                 96.16
R091806B             9-18-06     T.S.O. VII
R091806C             9-18-06     T.S.O. VII
R091806D             9-18-06     T.S.O. VII
R091806E             9-18-06     T.S.O. VII
R101606              10-16-06    T.S.O. VII
R101606A             10-16-06    T.S.O. VII
R101606B             10-16-06    T.S.O. VII
R110606              11-6-06     T.S.O. VII
R110606B             11-6-06     T.S.O. VII
R110606C             11-6-06     T.S.O. VIII
R112006              11-20-06    T.S.O. VII
R112006A             11-20-06    Ch. 75, Sch. I
R112006B             11-20-06    Ch. 74, Sch. III
R120406              12-4-06     T.S.O. VII
R121806              12-18-06    T.S.O. VII
R121806A             12-18-06    T.S.O. VII
R121806D             12-18-06    T.S.O. VII
R122806              12-28-06    T.S.O. VII
R011607              1-16-07     T.S.O. VII
R020507              2-5-07      T.S.O. VII
R020507A             2-5-07      T.S.O. VII
R020507B             2-5-07      T.S.O. VII
R020507C             2-5-07      T.S.O. VII
R021907              2-19-07     T.S.O. VII
R021907A             2-19-07     T.S.O. VII
R021907B             2-19-07     T.S.O. VII
R021907D             2-19-07     T.S.O. VII
R021907E             2-19-07     T.S.O. VII
R030507C             3-5-07      T.S.O. VII
R031907              3-19-07     T.S.O. VII
R031907A             3-19-07     T.S.O. VII
R031907B             3-19-07     Ch. 74, Sch. III
R031907C             3-19-07     T.S.O. VII
R040207              4-2-07      T.S.O. VII
R040207A             4-2-07      T.S.O. VII
R040207B             4-2-07      T.S.O. VII
R040207C             4-2-07      T.S.O. VII
R040207D             4-2-07      T.S.O. VII
R041607              4-16-07     T.S.O. VII
R041607D             4-16-07     T.S.O. VII
R041607E             4-16-07     T.S.O. VII
R050907              5-9-07      T.S.O. VII
R050907B             5-9-07      T.S.O. VII
R052107              5-21-07     T.S.O. VII
R060407              6-4-07      T.S.O. VII
R060407A             6-4-07      T.S.O. VII
R060407B             6-4-07      T.S.O. VII
R070207              7-2-07      T.S.O. VII
R070207A             7-2-07      T.S.O. VII
R070207B             7-2-07      T.S.O. VII
R071607              7-16-07     T.S.O. VII
R071607A             7-16-07     T.S.O. V
R080607              8-6-07      T.S.O. VII
R082007              8-20-07     T.S.O. VII
R082007A             8-20-07     T.S.O. VII
R090407              9-4-07      T.S.O. VII
R090407A             9-4-07      T.S.O. VII
R090407B             9-4-07      T.S.O. VII
R091707              9-17-07     T.S.O. VII
R091707A             9-17-07     T.S.O. VII
R091707B             9-17-07     T.S.O. VII
R091707C             9-17-07     T.S.O. VII
R091707D             9-17-07     T.S.O. VII
R100107              10-01-07    T.S.O. VII
R101507              10-15-07    T.S.O. VII
R110707A             11-7-07     T.S.O. VII
R110707B             11-7-07     T.S.O. VII
R110707C             11-7-07     T.S.O. VII
R111907              11-19-07    T.S.O. VII
R111907A             11-19-07    T.S.O. VII
R111907B             11-19-07    T.S.O. VII
R111907C             11-19-07    T.S.O. VII
R111907D             11-19-07    T.S.O. VII
R120307              12-3-07     T.S.O. VII
R120307A             12-3-07     T.S.O. VII
R010708              1-7-08      T.S.O. VII
R012208E             1-22-08     T.S.O. VII
R031708A             3-17-08     T.S.O. VII
R031708              3-17-08     T.S.O. VII
R040708              4-7-08      T.S.O. VII
R050708              5-7-08      T.S.O. VII
R051908              5-19-08     T.S.O. VII
R051908A             5-19-08     T.S.O. VII
R060208              6-2-08      T.S.O. VII
R061608              6-16-08     T.S.O. VII
R070708              7-7-08      T.S.O. VII
R070708A             7-7-08      T.S.O. VII
R070708B             7-7-08      T.S.O. VII
R070708C             7-7-08      T.S.O. VII
R072108              7-21-08     T.S.O. VII
R072108A             7-21-08     T.S.O. VII
R080408              8-4-08      T.S.O. VII
R080408A             8-4-08      T.S.O. VII
R081808              8-18-08     T.S.O. VII
R081808A             8-18-08     T.S.O. VII
R081808B             8-18-08     T.S.O. VII
R081808C             8-18-08     T.S.O. VII
R081808D             8-18-08     T.S.O. VII
R081808E             8-18-08     T.S.O. VII
R081808F             8-18-08     T.S.O. VII
R081808G             8-18-08     T.S.O. VII
R081808H             8-18-08     T.S.O. VII
R081808K             8-18-08     T.S.O. VII
R090208A             9-2-08      50.99
R080208B             9-2-08      T.S.O. VII
R091508              9-15-08     T.S.O. VII
R091508A             9-15-08     T.S.O. VII
R091508B             9-15-08     T.S.O. VII
R091508C             9-15-08     T.S.O. VII
R100608              10-6-08     T.S.O. VII
R102008              10-20-08    T.S.O. VII
R102008A             10-20-08    T.S.O. VII
R102008B             10-20-08    T.S.O. VII
R102008C             10-20-08    T.S.O. VII
R102008D             10-20-08    T.S.O. VII
R110508              11-5-08     T.S.O. VII
R110508A             11-5-08     T.S.O. VII
R110508B             11-5-08     T.S.O. VII
R110508C             11-5-08     T.S.O. VII
R110508D             11-5-08     T.S.O. VII
R111708              11-17-08    T.S.O. VII
R111708A             11-17-08    T.S.O. VII
R111708B             11-17-08    34.13,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R111708C             11-17-08    T.S.O. VII
R111708D             11-17-08    T.S.O. VII
R081808I             12-1-08     T.S.O. VII
R081808J             12-1-08     T.S.O. VII
R120108              12-1-08     T.S.O. VII
R120108A             12-1-08     T.S.O. VII
R120108B             12-1-08     T.S.O. VII
R121508              12-15-08    T.S.O. VII
R121508A             12-15-08    T.S.O. II, VII
R121508B             12-15-08    T.S.O. II, VII
R121508C             12-15-08    T.S.O. VII
R121508D             12-15-08    T.S.O. VII
R121508E             12-15-08    T.S.O. VII
R123008              12-30-08    T.S.O. VII
R123108              12-31-08    T.S.O. VII
R010509              1-5-09      T.S.O. VII
R010509A             1-5-09      T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R012009              1-20-09     T.S.O. VII
R012009A             1-20-09     T.S.O. VII
R020209              2-2-09      T.S.O. VII
R020209A             2-2-09      T.S.O. VII
R020209B             2-2-09      T.S.O. VII
R021609              2-16-09     T.S.O. VII
R021609A             2-16-09     T.S.O. VII
R021609B             2-16-09     T.S.O. VII
R021609C             2-16-09     T.S.O. VII,
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
R021609D             2-16-09     T.S.O. VII,
                                 Ch. 74 Sch. I
R021609E             2-16-09     T.S.O. VII
R030209              3-2-09      T.S.O. VII
R030209A             3-2-09      T.S.O. VII
R030209B             3-2-09      T.S.O. VII
R030209C             3-2-09      T.S.O. VII
R030209D             3-2-09      T.S.O. VII
R030209E             3-2-09      T.S.O. VII
R030209F             4-20-09     T.S.O. VII
R031609              3-16-09     T.S.O. VII
R031609A             3-16-09     T.S.O. VII
R032709              3-27-09     T.S.O. VII
R032709A             3-27-09     T.S.O. VII
R040609              4-6-09      T.S.O. VII
R040609B             4-6-09      T.S.O. VII
R040609C             4-6-09      T.S.O. VII
R042009              4-20-09     T.S.O. VII
R050409              5-4-09      T.S.O. VII
R051809              5-18-09     T.S.O. VII
R051809A             5-18-09     T.S.O. VII
R051809B             5-18-09     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R060109              6-01-09     T.S.O. VII
R060109A             6-1-09      T.S.O. VII
R061509              6-15-09     T.S.O. VII
R061509A             6-15-09     T.S.O. VII
R070609              7-6-09      T.S.O. VII
R070609A             7-6-09      T.S.O. VII
R072009              7-20-09     T.S.O. VII
R072009A             7-20-09     T.S.O. VII
R072009B             7-20-09     T.S.O. VII
R072009D             7-20-09     T.S.O. VII
R072009F             7-20-09     T.S.O. VII
R072009G             7-20-09     T.S.O. VII
R080309              8-3-09      T.S.O. VII
R080309A             8-3-09      T.S.O. VII
R081709              8-17-09     T.S.O. VII
R092109              9-21-09     T.S.O. VII
R092109A             9-21-09     T.S.O. VII
R100709              10-7-09     T.S.O. VII
R100709A             10-7-09     T.S.O. VII
R101909              10-19-09    T.S.O. VII
R101909A             10-19-09    T.S.O. VIII
R110209              11-2-09     T.S.O. VII
R110209A             11-2-09     T.S.O. VII
R110209B             11-2-09     T.S.O. VII
R110209C             11-2-09     T.S.O. VII
R111609              11-16-09    T.S.O. II
R120709              12-7-09     T.S.O. VII
R120709A             12-7-09     T.S.O. VII
R120709B             12-7-09     T.S.O. VII
R122109              12-21-09    T.S.O. VII
R122109B             12-21-09    T.S.O. VII,
                                 Ch. 74 Sch. I
R122109C             12-21-09    T.S.O. VII
R122109D             12-21-09    T.S.O. VII,
                                 Ch. 74 Sch. III
R123009              12-30-09    T.S.O. VII
R020110              2-1-10      T.S.O. VII
R020110A             2-1-10      T.S.O. VII
R030110              3-1-10      T.S.O. VII
R030110A             3-1-10      T.S.O. VII
R031510              3-15-10     T.S.O. VII
R031510A             3-15-10     T.S.O. VII
R031510C             3-15-10     T.S.O. V
R032510              3-25-10     T.S.O. VII
R032510A             3-25-10     T.S.O. VII
R032510B             3-25-10     T.S.O. VII
R032910              3-29-10     T.S.O. VII
R032910A             3-29-10     T.S.O. VII
R041210              4-12-10     T.S.O. V
R041210A             4-12-10     T.S.O. VII
R050510              5-5-10      T.S.O. VII
R050510A             5-5-10      T.S.O. V
R050510B             5-5-10      T.S.O. VII
R050510C             5-5-10      T.S.O. VII
R060710              6-7-10      T.S.O. VII
R060710A             6-7-10      T.S.O. VII
R060710B             6-7-10      T.S.O. VII
R060710C             6-7-10      T.S.O. VII
R060710D             6-7-10      T.S.O. VII
R060710E             6-7-10      T.S.O. VII
R060710F             6-7-10      T.S.O. VII
R062110              6-21-10     T.S.O. VII
R062110A             6-21-10     T.S.O. VII
R062110B             6-21-10     T.S.O. VII
R070710              7-7-10      T.S.O. VII
R071910              7-19-10     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R071910A             8-2-10      T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R081610A             8-16-10     T.S.O. VII
R081610              8-16-10     T.S.O. VII
R090710              9-7-10      T.S.O. VII
R122109A             9-20-10     T.S.O. VII
R092010              9-20-10     T.S.O. VII
R100410              10-4-10     T.S.O. VII
R100410A             10-4-10     T.S.O. VII
R100410B             10-4-10     T.S.O. VII
R101810              10-18-10    T.S.O. VII
R101810A             10-18-10    T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R101810B             10-18-10    T.S.O. VII
R101810C             10-18-10    T.S.O. VII
R101810D             10-18-10    T.S.O. VII,
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
R101810E             10-18-10    T.S.O. VII
R110210A             11-3-10     T.S.O. VII
R111510              11-15-10    T.S.O. VII
R111510A             11-15-10    T.S.O. VII
R111510B             11-15-10    T.S.O. VII
R121310              12-13-10    T.S.O. VII
R121310A             12-13-10    T.S.O. VII
R121310B             12-13-10    T.S.O. VII
R121310 (Joint Res.) 12-13-10    T.S.O. VII
R123010              12-30-10    T.S.O. VII
R020711              2-7-11      T.S.O. VII
R022111              2-21-11     T.S.O. III,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R022111A             2-21-11     T.S.O. VII
R030711              3-7-11      T.S.O. VII
R030711A             3-7-11      T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R030711B             3-7-11      T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R032111              3-21-11     T.S.O. VII
R032111A             3-21-11     T.S.O. VII
R032111B             3-21-11     T.S.O. VII
R032111D             3-21-11     T.S.O. VII
R040411              4-4-11      T.S.O. VII
R040411A             4-4-11      T.S.O. VII
R040411B             4-11-11     T.S.O. VII
R051611              5-16-11     T.S.O. VII
R051611A             5-16-11     T.S.O. VII
R060611A             6-6-11      T.S.O. VII
R060611B             6-6-11      T.S.O. VII
R060611C             6-29-11     T.S.O. VII
R060611E             6-6-11      Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R062011              6-20-11     T.S.O. VII
R062911              6-29-11     T.S.O. VII
R072211              7-22-11     T.S.O. VII
R072211A             7-22-11     T.S.O. VII
R080111              8-1-11      T.S.O. VII
R080111A             8-1-11      150.07
R081511              8-15-11     T.S.O. VII
R081511B             8-15-11     T.S.O. VII
R081511C             8-15-11     T.S.O. VII
R081511A             9-6-11      T.S.O. VII
R090611              9-6-11      Ch. 74, Sch. V,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R090611A             9-6-11      T.S.O. VII
R091911              9-19-11     T.S.O. VII
R091911A             9-19-11     T.S.O. VII
R091911B             9-19-11     T.S.O. VII
R091911C             9-19-11     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R091911D             9-19-11     T.S.O. VII
R100311              10-3-11     T.S.O. VII
R100311A             10-3-11     T.S.O. VII
R100311B             10-3-11     Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R100311C             10-3-11     T.S.O. VII
R100311D             10-3-11     T.S.O. VII
R101711              10-17-11    T.S.O. VII
R101711A             10-17-11    T.S.O. VII
R110911              11-9-11     T.S.O. VII
R110911A             11-9-11     T.S.O. VII
R110911B             11-9-11     T.S.O. VII
R110911C             11-9-11     T.S.O. VII
R110911D             1-17-12     T.S.O. VII
R110911E             11-9-11     T.S.O. VII
R112111              11-21-11    T.S.O. VII
R111211A             11-21-11    T.S.O. VII
R111211B             11-21-11    T.S.O. VII
R120511              12-5-11     T.S.O. VII
R121911              12-19-11    T.S.O. VII
R121911A             12-19-11    T.S.O. VII
R121911B             12-19-11    Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R121911C             12-19-11    T.S.O. VII
R121911D             12-19-11    T.S.O. VII
R122711              12-27-11    T.S.O. VII
R010312              1-3-12      T.S.O. VII
R022012              2-20-12     T.S.O. VII
R022012A             2-20-12     T.S.O. VII
R022012B             2-20-12     T.S.O. VII
R022012C             2-20-12     T.S.O. VII
R022012D             2-20-12     T.S.O. VII
R022012E             2-20-12     T.S.O. VII
R022012F             2-20-12     T.S.O. VII
R022012G             2-20-12     T.S.O. VII
R030512              3-5-12      T.S.O. VII
R030512A             3-5-12      T.S.O. VII
R030512B             3-5-12      T.S.O. VII
R031912              3-19-12     T.S.O. VII
R031912A             3-19-12     T.S.O. VII
R031912B             4-2-12      T.S.O. VII
R031912C             4-2-12      T.S.O. VII
R031912D             3-19-12     T.S.O. VII
R031912E             3-19-12     T.S.O. VII
R040212              4-2-12      T.S.O. VII
R040212A             4-2-12      T.S.O. VII
R040212B             4-2-12      Ch. 74, Sch. III;
                                 T.S.O. VII
                                 35.30;
R040212D             4-2-12      96.14;
                                 T.S.O. VII
R041612              4-16-12     T.S.O. VII
R041612C             4-16-12     T.S.O. VII
R050912              5-9-12      T.S.O. VII
R050912A             5-9-12      T.S.O. VII
R050912B             5-9-12      T.S.O. VII
R060412              6-4-12      T.S.O. VII
R060412A             6-4-12      T.S.O. VII
R061812              6-18-12     T.S.O. VII
R061812A             6-18-12     T.S.O. VII
                                 35.40,
R061812B             6-18-12     35.41,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R061812C             6-18-12     T.S.O. VII
R071612              7-16-12     T.S.O. VII
R071612A             7-16-12     T.S.O. VII
R071612B             7-16-12     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R080612              8-6-12      T.S.O. VII
R082012              8-20-12     T.S.O. VII
R082012A             8-20-12     T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R082012B             8-20-12     T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R082012C             8-20-12     T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R090412              9-4-12      Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R090412A             9-4-12      T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R090412B             9-4-12      T.S.O. VII
R090412C             9-4-12      T.S.O. VII
R091712              9-17-12     T.S.O. VII
R091712A             9-17-12     T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R091712B             9-17-12     T.S.O. VII
R091712C             9-17-12     T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R091712D             9-17-12     Ch. 74, Sch. VI,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R091712E             9-17-12     T.S.O. VII
R100112              10-1-12     T.S.O. VII
R100112A             10-1-12     T.S.O. VII
R101512              10-15-12    T.S.O. VII
R102912              10-29-12    T.S.O. VII
R110712              11-7-12     T.S.O. VII
R110712A             11-7-12     T.S.O. VII
R111912              11-19-12    T.S.O. VII
R111912A             11-19-12    T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R111912B             11-19-12    T.S.O. VII
R120312              12-3-12     T.S.O. VII
R121412              12-17-12    T.S.O. VII
R121412A             12-17-12    T.S.O. VII
R121412B             12-17-12    T.S.O. VII
R121412E             12-17-12    T.S.O. VII
R010713              1-7-13      T.S.O. VII
R010713A             1-7-13      T.S.O. VII
R012213              1-22-13     T.S.O. VII
R020413              2-4-13      T.S.O. VII
R021813              2-18-13     T.S.O. VII
R021813A             2-18-13     T.S.O. VII
R021813B             2-18-13     T.S.O. VII
R021813D             2-18-13     T.S.O. VII
R021813C             3-4-13      T.S.O. VII
R030413              3-4-13      T.S.O. VII
R030413A             3-4-13      T.S.O. VII
R031813              3-18-13     T.S.O. VII
R031813A             3-18-13     T.S.O. VII
R040113              4-1-13      T.S.O. VII
R041513              4-15-13     T.S.O. VII
R051313              5-13-13     T.S.O. VII
R051313A             5-13-13     T.S.O. VII
R051313B             5-13-13     T.S.O. VII
R051313C             5-13-13     T.S.O. VII
R052013              5-20-13     T.S.O. VII
R052013A             5-20-13     T.S.O. VII
R052013B             5-20-13     T.S.O. VII
R052013C             5-20-13     T.S.O. VII
R060313              6-3-13      T.S.O. VII
R060313A             6-3-13      T.S.O. VII
R060313B             6-3-13      T.S.O. VII
R060313C             6-3-13      T.S.O. VII
R060313D             6-3-13      T.S.O. VII
R060313E             6-3-13      T.S.O. VII
R061713              6-17-13     T.S.O. VII
R061713A             6-17-13     T.S.O. VII
R061713B             6-17-13     T.S.O. VII
R071513A             7-15-13     T.S.O. VII
R072913              7-29-13     T.S.O. VII
R080513              8-5-13      T.S.O. VII
R080513A             8-5-13      T.S.O. VII
R080513B             8-5-13      T.S.O. VII
R081213              8-12-13     T.S.O. VII
R081913              8-19-13     T.S.O. VII
R081913A             8-19-13     T.S.O. VII
R090313              9-3-13      T.S.O. VII
R090313A             9-3-13      T.S.O. VII
R090313B             9-3-13      T.S.O. VII
R090313C             9-3-13      T.S.O. VII
R090313D             9-3-13      T.S.O. VII
R091613              9-16-13     T.S.O. VII
R091613A             9-16-13     T.S.O. VII
R091613B             9-16-13     T.S.O. VII
R091613C             9-16-13     T.S.O. VII
R100713              10-7-13     T.S.O. VII
R100713A             10-7-13     T.S.O. VII
R100713B             10-7-13     T.S.O. VII
R100713C             10-7-13     T.S.O. VII
R102113              10-21-13    T.S.O. VII
R102113A             10-21-13    T.S.O. VII
R1101413B            11-04-13    T.S.O. VII
R111813              11-18-13    T.S.O. VII
R120213              12-02-13    T.S.O. VII
R120213A             12-02-13    T.S.O. VII
R110413A             12-16-13    T.S.O. II
R121613              12-16-13    T.S.O. VIII
R121613A             12-16-13    T.S.O. VII
R121613B             12-16-13    T.S.O. VII
R121613C             12-16-13    T.S.O. VII
R122713              12-27-13    T.S.O. VII
R010614              1-8-14      T.S.O. VII
R010614A             1-8-14      T.S.O. VII
R010614B             1-8-14      T.S.O. VII
R012114              1-21-14     T.S.O. VII
R012114A             1-21-14     T.S.O. VII
R020314              2-3-14      T.S.O. VII
R020314A             2-3-14      T.S.O. VII
R020314B             2-3-14      T.S.O. VII
R020314C             2-3-14      T.S.O. VII
R020314D             2-3-14      T.S.O. VII
R021714              2-17-14     T.S.O. VII
R021714A             2-17-14     T.S.O. VII
R021714B             2-17-14     T.S.O. VII
R021714C             2-17-14     T.S.O. VII
R021714D             2-17-14     T.S.O. VII
R021714G             2-17-14     T.S.O. VII
R021714H             2-17-14     T.S.O. VIII
R030314              3-3-14      T.S.O. VII,
                                 VIII
R030314A             3-3-14      T.S.O. VII
R030314B             3-3-14      T.S.O. VII
R031714              3-17-14     T.S.O. VII
R031714A             3-17-14     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R031714B             3-17-14     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R031714C             3-17-14     T.S.O. VII
R040714              4-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R040714A             4-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R040714B             4-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R040714C             4-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R040714D             4-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R042114              4-21-14     T.S.O. VII
R042114A             4-21-14     T.S.O. VII
R050714              5-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R050714A             5-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R050714B             5-7-14      T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R050714C             5-7-14      T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R050714D             5-7-14      T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R050714E             5-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R051914              5-19-14     T.S.O. VII
R051914A             5-19-14     T.S.O. VII
R060214              6-2-14      T.S.O. VII
R060214A             6-2-14      T.S.O. VII
R060221B             6-2-14      T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R060214C             6-2-14      T.S.O. VII
R060214E             6-2-14      T.S.O. VII
R060214F             6-2-14      T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R060214D             6-16-14     T.S.O. VII
R061614              6-16-14     T.S.O. VII
R061614A             6-16-14     T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R070714              7-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R070714A             7-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R070714B             7-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R070714C             7-7-14      T.S.O. VII,
                                 VIII
R070714D             7-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R070714F             7-7-14      T.S.O. VII
R072114              7-21-14     T.S.O. VII
R072114A             7-21-14     T.S.O. VII
R072114B             7-21-14     T.S.O. VII
R072114C             7-21-14     T.S.O. VII
R072114D             7-21-14     T.S.O. VII
R072114E             7-21-14     T.S.O. VII
R072114F             7-21-14     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R072114G             7-21-14     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R070714E             8-4-14      T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R080414              8-4-14      T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R080414A             8-4-14      T.S.O. VII
R08-414B             8-4-14      T.S.O. VII
R081814              8-18-14     T.S.O. VII
R081814A             8-18-14     T.S.O. VII
R081814B             8-18-14     T.S.O. VII
R081814C             8-18-14     T.S.O. VII
R090214              9-2-14      T.S.O. VII
R090214A             9-2-14      T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R090214B             9-2-14      T.S.O. VII
R091514              9-15-14     T.S.O. VII
R091514A             9-15-14     T.S.O. VII
R091514B             9-15-14     T.S.O. VII
R091514C             9-15-14     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R100614              10-6-14     T.S.O. VII
R100614A             10-6-14     T.S.O. VII
R100614B             10-6-14     T.S.O. VII
R100614C             10-6-14     T.S.O. VII
R100614D             10-6-14     T.S.O. VII
R100614E             10-6-14     T.S.O. VII
R100614F             10-6-14     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R100614G             10-6-14     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R102014              10-20-14    T.S.O. VII
R102014A             10-20-14    T.S.O. VII
R102014B             10-20-14    T.S.O. VII
R110515              11-5-14     T.S.O. VII
R110514A             11-5-14     T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R110514B             11-5-14     T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R110514C             11-5-14     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R111714              11-17-14    T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R121114              12-1-14     T.S.O. VII
R120114A             12-1-14     T.S.O. VII
R120114B             12-1-14     T.S.O. VII
R120114C             12-1-14     T.S.O. VII
R120114D             12-1-14     T.S.O. VII
R120114E             12-1-14     T.S.O. VII
R121514              12-15-14    T.S.O. VII
R121514A             12-15-14    T.S.O. VII
R121514B             12-15-14    T.S.O. VII
R121514C             12-15-14    T.S.O. VII
R121514D             12-15-14    T.S.O. V,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R121514F             12-15-14    T.S.O. VII,
                                 T.S.O. VIII
R122914              12-29-14    T.S.O. VII
R012015              1-20-15     T.S.O. VII
R020215              2-2-15      T.S.O. VII
R020215A             2-2-15      T.S.O. VII
R020215B             2-2-15      T.S.O. VII
R021615              2-16-15     T.S.O. VII
R031615              3-16-15     T.S.O. VII
R031615A             3-16-15     T.S.O. VII
R042015              4-20-15     T.S.O. VII
R042015A             4-20-15     T.S.O. VII
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. I,
R042715              4-27-15     III,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R051815              5-18-15     T.S.O. VII
R051815A             5-18-15     T.S.O. VII
R051815B             5-18-15     T.S.O. VII
R051815C             5-18-15     T.S.O. VII
R051815D             5-18-15     T.S.O. VII
R051815E             5-18-15     T.S.O. VII
R051815F             5-18-15     T.S.O. VII
R051815G             5-18-15     T.S.O. VII
R061515              6-15-15     T.S.O. VII
R061515A             6-15-15     T.S.O. VII
R061515B             6-15-15     T.S.O. VII
R061515C             6-15-15     T.S.O. VII
R061515D             6-15-15     T.S.O. VII
R061515E             6-15-15     T.S.O. VII
R072215              7-22-15     T.S.O. VII
R072215A             7-22-15     T.S.O. VII
R072215B             7-22-15     T.S.O. VII
R072215C             7-22-15     T.S.O. VII
R072215D             7-22-15     T.S.O. VII
R072215E             7-22-15     T.S.O. VII
R072215F             7-22-15     T.S.O. VII
R072215G             7-22-15     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R072215H             7-22-15     T.S.O. VII,
                                 T.S.O. VIII
R072215I             7-22-15     T.S.O. VII
R072715A             7-27-15     51.50
R081715              8-17-15     T.S.O. VII
R081715A             8-17-15     T.S.O. VII
R081715B             8-17-15     T.S.O. VII
R081715C             8-17-15     T.S.O. VII
R081715D             8-17-15     T.S.O. VII
R081715E             8-17-15     T.S.O. VII
R092115              9-21-15     T.S.O. VII
R092115A             9-21-15     T.S.O. VII
R092115B             9-21-15     T.S.O. VII
R092115D             9-21-15     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R101915              10-19-15    T.S.O. VII
R101915A             10-19-15    T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R101915B             10-19-15    T.S.O. VII
R101915C             10-19-15    T.S.O. VII
R111615              11-16-15    T.S.O. VII
R111615A             11-16-15    T.S.O. VII
R111615B             11-16-15    T.S.O. VII
R111615D             11-16-15    T.S.O. VII
R111615E             11-16-15    T.S.O. VII
R122115              12-21-15    T.S.O. VII
R122115A             12-21-15    T.S.O. VII
R122115B             12-21-15    T.S.O. VII
R122115C             12-21-15    T.S.O. VII,
                                 T.S.O. VIII
R122115D             12-21-15    T.S.O. VII,
                                 T.S.O. VIII
R011116              1-11-16     T.S.O. VII
                                 Ch. 74, Sch.
                                 I,
R011116A             1-11-16     II,
                                 III,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R011116B             1-11-16     T.S.O. VII
R011916              1-19-16     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R011916A             1-19-16     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R012516              1-25-16     T.S.O. VII
R021516              2-15-16     T.S.O. VII
R021516A             2-15-16     T.S.O. VII
R021516B             2-15-16     T.S.O. VII
R021516C             2-15-16     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R021516D             2-15-16     T.S.O. VII
R021516E             2-15-16     T.S.O. VII
R021516F             2-15-16     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R021516G             2-15-16     T.S.O. VII
R021516H             2-15-16     T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R022216              2-22-16     V,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R022216A             2-22-16     V,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R022216B             2-22-16     V,
                                 VII
R031416              3-14-16     T.S.O. VII
R031416A             3-14-16     T.S.O. VII,
                                 VIII
R032116              3-21-16     T.S.O. VII
R032116A             3-21-16     T.S.O. VII
R032116B             3-21-16     T.S.O. VII
R032116C             3-21-16     T.S.O. VII
R032116D             3-21-16     T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R032116E             3-21-16     II,
                                 VII
R032116F             3-21-16     T.S.O. VII
R032116G             3-21-16     T.S.O. VII
R032816              3-28-16     T.S.O. VII
R041116              4-11-16     T.S.O. VII
R041116A             4-11-16     T.S.O. VII,
                                 VIII
R041816              4-18-16     T.S.O. VII
R041816A             4-18-16     T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R041816B             4-18-16     II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R041816C             4-18-16     II,
                                 VII
R050916              5-9-16      T.S.O. VII
R051616B             5-16-16     T.S.O. VII
R051616C             5-16-16     T.S.O. VII
R051616D             5-16-16     T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R051616E             5-16-16     II,
                                 VII
R061316              6-13-16     T.S.O. VII
R062016              6-20-16     T.S.O. VII
R062016A             6-20-16     T.S.O. VII
R062016B             6-20-16     T.S.O. VII
R062016C             6-20-16     T.S.O. VII
R062016D             6-20-16     T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R062016E             6-20-16     II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R062016F             6-20-16     II,
                                 VII
R062916              6-29-16     T.S.O. VII
R062916A             6-29-16     T.S.O. VII
R071116              7-11-16     Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R062016K             7-18-16     T.S.O. VII
R071816              7-18-16     T.S.O. VII
R071816A             7-18-16     T.S.O. VII
R071816B             7-18-16     T.S.O. VII
R071816C             7-18-16     T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R071816D             7-18-16     II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R071816E             7-18-16     II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R071816F             7-18-16     II,
                                 VII
R071816G             7-18-16     T.S.O. VII
R071816H             7-18-16     T.S.O. VII
R071816I             7-18-16     T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R072516              7-25-16     V,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R080816              8-8-16      II,
                                 VII
R081516              8-15-16     T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R081516A             9-19-16     II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R081516B             8-15-16     II,
                                 VII
R081516C             8-15-16     T.S.O. VII
R081516D             8-15-16     T.S.O. VII
R081516E             8-15-16     T.S.O. II ,
                                 VII
R091216              9-12-16     Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                                 Ch. 75, Sch. I
R091916              9-19-16     T.S.O. VII
R091916A             9-19-16     T.S.O. VII
R091916B             9-19-16     T.S.O. VII
R091916C             9-19-16     T.S.O. VII
R091916E             9-19-16     T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R091916F             9-19-16     II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R091916G             9-19-16     II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R091916H             9-19-16     II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R091916I             9-19-16     II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R091916J             9-19-16     II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R101016              10-10-16    V,
                                 VII
R101016A             10-10-16    T.S.O. VII
R101716              10-17-16    T.S.O. VII
R101716B             10-17-16    T.S.O. VII
R101716C             10-17-16    T.S.O. VII
R101716D             10-17-16    T.S.O. VII
R101716E             10-17-16    T.S.O. VII
R101716F             10-17-16    T.S.O. VII
R101716G             10-17-16    T.S.O. VII
R112116A             11-21-16    T.S.O. VII
R112116C             11-21-16    T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R112116D             11-21-16    II,
                                 VII
R112816              11-28-16    T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R112816A             11-28-16    II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R121216              12-12-16    II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R121216A             12-12-16    V,
                                 VII
R121316              12-13-16    T.S.O. VII
R121916B             12-19-16    T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R121916C             12-19-16    II,
                                 VII
                                 T.S.O.
R121916D             12-19-16    II,
                                 VII
R122216              12-22-16    T.S.O. VII
                                 Ch. 74, Sch.
                                 I,
R122216A             12-22-16    II,
                                 III,
                                 V,
                                 T.S.O. VII
                                 T.S.O.
R122216B             12-22-16    V,
                                 VII
R010917              1-12-17     T.S.O. II
R011217              1- 17       T.S.O. II
R011717              1-17-17     T.S.O. VII
R011717A             1-17-17     T.S.O. VII
R011717B             1-17-17     T.S.O. VII
R012317              1-23-17     T.S.O. VII
R012317A             1-23-17     T.S.O. VII
R012317B             1-23-17     T.S.O. II
R021317              2-13-17     T.S.O. VII
R022017              2-20-17     T.S.O. VII
R022017A             2-20-17     T.S.O. VII
R022017C             2-20-17     T.S.O. VII
R022717              2-27-17     T.S.O. VII
R022717A             2-27-17     T.S.O. VII
R022717B             2-27-17     T.S.O. VII
R022717C             2-27-17     T.S.O. VIII
R031317              3-13-17     Ch. 75, Sch. I;
                                 T.S.O. VII
R031317A             3-13-17     T.S.O. V
R031317B             3-13-17     T.S.O. V
R031317C             3-13-17     T.S.O. V
R031317D             3-13-17     T.S.O. V
R031317E             3-13-17     T.S.O. VII
R032017A             3-20-17     T.S.O. VII
R032017B             3-20-17     T.S.O. VII
R032017C             3-20-17     T.S.O. VII
R032017F             3-20-17     T.S.O. VII
R032017G             3-20-17     T.S.O. VII
R032717              3-27-17     Ch. 74, Sch. III;
                                 T.S.O. VII
R032717A             3-27-17     T.S.O. VIII
R032717C             3-27-17     T.S.O. VIII
R032717D             3-27-17     T.S.O. VII
R041017              4-10-17     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R041017A             4-10-17     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R041717              4-17-17     T.S.O. I,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R041717A             4-17-17     T.S.O. VII I
R042417              4-24-17     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R042417C             4-24-17     T.S.O. V,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R042417D             4-24-17     T.S.O. VII
R042817              4-28-17     T.S.O. V,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R050817              5-8-17      Ch. 75, Sch. I,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R050817A             5-8-17      T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R051517              5-15-17     T.S.O. VI,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R051517A             5-15-17     T.S.O. I,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R051517B             5-15-17     T.S.O. I,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R051517C             5-15-17     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R051517D             5-15-17     T.S.O. I,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R051517E             5-15-17     T.S.O. VII,
                                 T.S.O. VIII
R051517F             5-15-17     T.S.O. VII
R052217A             5-22-17     T.S.O. II,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R071117              7-11-17     T.S.O. VII
R071117A             7-11-17     T.S.O. VII
R071717              7-17-17     T.S.O. VII
R071717A             7-17-17     T.S.O. VII
R071717B             7-17-17     T.S.O. VII
R071717D             7-17-17     T.S.O. VII
R071717E             7-17-17     T.S.O. VII
R071717F             7-17-17     T.S.O. VII
R071717G             7-17-17     T.S.O. VII
R072417              7-24-17     T.S.O. VII
R072417A             7-24-17     T.S.O. VII
R072417B             7-24-17     T.S.O. VII
R081417              8-14-17     T.S.O. VII
R081417A             8-14-17     T.S.O. VII
R081417B             8-14-17     T.S.O. VII
R081417C             8-14-17     T.S.O. VII
R082117              8-21-17     T.S.O. VII
R082117A             8-21-17     T.S.O. VII
R082117B             8-21-17     T.S.O. VII
R082117C             8-21-17     T.S.O. VII
R082117D             8-21-17     T.S.O. VII
R082117E             8-21-17     T.S.O. VII
R082117F             8-21-17     T.S.O. VII
R082117G             8-21-17     T.S.O. VII
R082117H             8-21-17     T.S.O. VII
R082117I             8-21-17     T.S.O. VII
R082117J             8-21-17     T.S.O. VII
R082117K             8-21-17     T.S.O. VII
R082817              9-1-17      Ch. 74, Sch. I
R082817A             9-1-17      Ch. 75, Sch. I
R082817B             9-1-17      Ch. 74, Sch. III
R082817C             9-1-17      T.S.O. II
R091117              9-11-17     T.S.O. VIII
R091817              9-18-17     T.S.O. VII
R091817A             9-18-17     T.S.O. VII
R091817B             9-18-17     T.S.O. VII
R091817C             9-18-17     T.S.O. VII
R092517              9-25-17     Ch. 74, Sch. III
R092517A             9-25-17     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
R100917              10-9-17     T.S.O. VII
R101617A             10-16-17    T.S.O. VII
R101617B             10-16-17    T.S.O. VII
R101617C             10-16-17    T.S.O. VII
R101617D             10-16-17    T.S.O. VII
R101617E             10-16-17    T.S.O. VII
R102317              10-23-17    T.S.O. VII
R102317A             10-23-17    T.S.O. V
R102317B             10-23-17    T.S.O. VII
R102317C             10-23-17    T.S.O. VII
R102317D             10-23-17    T.S.O. VII
R112017              11-20-17    T.S.O. II
R112017A             11-20-17    T.S.O. VII
R112017B             11-20-17    T.S.O. VII
R112017C             11-20-17    T.S.O. VII
R112017D             11-20-17    T.S.O.
                                 VIII
R112017E             11-20-17    T.S.O. VII
R112017H             11-20-17    T.S.O. I
R112017J             11-20-17    T.S.O. II
R112017K             11-20-17    T.S.O. VII
R112017L             11-20-17    T.S.O. VII
R112017M             11-20-17    T.S.O. VII
R112017N             11-20-17    T.S.O. II
R112017O             11-20-17    T.S.O. VII
R112017P             11-20-17    T.S.O. VII
R112717              11-27-17    T.S.O. II
R121117              12-11-17    T.S.O. VII
R121117A             12-11-17    T.S.O. VII
                                 Ch. 74, Sch.
                                 I,
R121117B             12-11-17    II,
                                 III,
                                 V
R121117C             12-11-17    T.S.O. VII
R121117D             12-11-17    T.S.O. VII
R121817A             12-18-17    T.S.O. VII
R121817B             12-18-17    T.S.O. VII
R121817C             12-18-17    T.S.O. VII
R121817D             12-18-17    T.S.O. VII
R121817E             12-18-17    T.S.O. VII
R121817F             12-18-17    T.S.O. VII
                                 Ch. 74, Sch.
R122117              12-21-17    I,
                                 II,
                                 III
R122117A             12-21-17    T.S.O. VII
R122117B             12-21-17    T.S.O. VII
R122117C             12-21-17    T.S.O. VII
R122117D             12-21-17    Ch. 74, Sch. III
R011618              1-16-18     T.S.O. VII
R011618A             1-16-18     T.S.O. VII
R011618B             1-16-18     T.S.O. VII
R011618C             1-16-18     T.S.O. VII
R012218              1-22-18     T.S.O. VII
R012218A             1-22-18     T.S.O. VII
R012218B             1-22-18     T.S.O. VII
R012218C             1-22-18     T.S.O. VII
R012218D             1-22-18     T.S.O. II
R012218E             1-22-18     T.S.O. VII
R021218              2-12-18     T.S.O. VII
R021218A             2-12-18     T.S.O. VII
R021218B             2-12-18     T.S.O. VII
R021218C             2-12-18     T.S.O. VII
R021218D             2-12-18     Ch. 75, Sch. I
R021218E             2-12-18     T.S.O. VII
R021218F             2-12-18     T.S.O. VII
R021918              2-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R021918A             2-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R021918B             2-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R021918D             2-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R021918E             2-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R021918H             2-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R022618              2-26-18     T.S.O. VII
R022618A             2-26-18     T.S.O. VII
R022618B             2-26-18     T.S.O. V
R022618D             2-26-18     T.S.O. VII
R022618E             2-26-18     T.S.O. VII
R022618F             2-26-18     T.S.O. VII
R022618C             3-12-18     T.S.O. II
R031218              3-12-18     T.S.O. VII
R031218A             3-12-18     T.S.O. VII
R031218B             3-12-18     T.S.O. VIII
R031218C             3-12-18     T.S.O. VIII
R031918              3-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R031918A             3-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R031918B             3-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R031918C             3-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R031918D             3-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R031918E             3-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R031918F             3-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R031918G             3-19-18     T.S.O. VII
R032618              3-26-18     T.S.O. II
R040918              4-9-18      T.S.O. VII
R040918A             4-9-18      T.S.O. VII
R040918B             4-9-18      Ch. 74, Sch. III
R040918C             4-9-18      T.S.O. V
R040918D             4-9-18      T.S.O. VII
R041618              4-16-18     T.S.O. VII
R041618A             4-16-18     T.S.O. I
R041618B             4-16-18     T.S.O. II
R041618C             4-16-18     T.S.O. VII
R041618E             4-16-18     T.S.O. VII
R041618G             4-16-18     T.S.O. IV
R042318              4-23-18     T.S.O. II
R042318A             4-23-18     T.S.O. II
R042318B             4-23-18     T.S.O. VII
R042318C             4-23-18     T.S.O. II
R051418              5-14-18     Ch. 74, Sch. III
R051418A             5-14-18     T.S.O. VII
R051418B             5-14-18     T.S.O. VII
R051418C             5-14-18     T.S.O. VII
R052118              5-21-18     T.S.O. VII
R052118A             5-21-18     T.S.O. VII
R052118C             5-21-18     T.S.O. VII
R052118D             5-21-18     T.S.O. VII
R052118E             5-21-18     T.S.O. II
R052118F             5-21-18     T.S.O. VII
R052118G             5-21-18     T.S.O. I
R052118H             5-21-18     T.S.O. I
R052118I             5-21-18     T.S.O. VII
R052118J             5-21-18     T.S.O. VII
R052118K             5-21-18     T.S.O. VII
R052918              5-29-18     T.S.O. VII
R052918A             5-29-18     T.S.O. VII
R052918B             5-29-18     T.S.O. VII
R052918C             5-29-18     T.S.O. VII
R052918D             5-29-18     T.S.O. VII
R052918E             5-29-18     T.S.O. VII
R061118              6-11-18     T.S.O. II
R061118A             6-11-18     Ch. 75, Sch. I
R061818              6-18-18     T.S.O. VII
R061818A             6-18-18     T.S.O. VII
R061818B             6-18-18     T.S.O. VII
R061818C             6-18-18     T.S.O. VII
R061818D             6-18-18     T.S.O. VII
R061818E             6-18-18     T.S.O. VII
R061818G             6-18-18     T.S.O. VII
R061818H             6-18-18     T.S.O. II
R061818I             6-18-18     T.S.O. II
R061818J             6-18-18     T.S.O. VII
R062518              6-25-18     Ch. 74, Sch. VI
R062518A             6-25-18     T.S.O. II
R062518B             6-25-18     T.S.O. VII
R070918              7-9-18      53.01,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R070918A             7-9-18      53.01,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R070918B             7-9-18   T.S.O. VII
R070918C             7-9-18   T.S.O. VII
R071618              7-16-18     T.S.O. VII
R071618A             7-16-18     T.S.O. VII
R071618B             7-16-18     T.S.O. VII
R071618C             7-16-18     T.S.O. I
R071618D             7-16-18     T.S.O. VIII
R071618E             7-16-18     T.S.O. II
R072318              7-23-18     T.S.O. VII
R072318A             7-23-18     Ch. 74, Sch. III
R072318B             7-23-18     T.S.O. II
R072318C             7-23-18     T.S.O. VII
R072318D             7-23-18     T.S.O. II
R081318              8-13-18     T.S.O. VII
R081318A             8-13-18     T.S.O. VII
R081318B             8-13-18     T.S.O. VII
R082018B             8-20-18     T.S.O. II
R082018C             8-20-18     T.S.O. VII
R082018D             8-20-18     T.S.O. VII
R082018E             8-20-18     T.S.O. I
R082018F             8-20-18     T.S.O. VII
R082718              8-27-18     Ch. 74, Sch. III
R091018              9-10-18     T.S.O. VII
R091018A             9-10-18     T.S.O. VII
R091018B             9-10-18     T.S.O. VII
R092418              9-24-18     T.S.O. VII
R100818              10-8-18     T.S.O. V
R100818A             10-8-18     Ch. 74, Sch. III
R102218              10-22-18    T.S.O. VII
R102218B             10-22-18    T.S.O. VII
R102218C             10-22-18    T.S.O. II
R102218D             10-22-18    T.S.O. VII
R102218E             10-22-18    T.S.O. VII
R102218F             10-22-18    T.S.O. VII
R102218H             10-22-18    T.S.O. VII
R102218Y             10-22-18    Ch. 74, Sch. III
R102218Z             10-22-18    T.S.O. VII
R102218G             11-5-18     T.S.O. VII
R111318              11-13-18    T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R111318A             11-13-18    T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R111318B             11-13-18    T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R111318C             11-13-18    T.S.O. VII
R111318D             11-13-18    T.S.O. VII
R111318E             11-13-18    T.S.O. I,
                                 VII
R111918              11-19-18    T.S.O. I,
                                 VII
R111918A             11-19-18    T.S.O. I,
                                 VII
R111918B             11-19-18    T.S.O. I,
                                 VII
R111918D             11-19-18    T.S.O. VII
R111918F             11-19-18    T.S.O. VII
R112618              11-26-18    Ch. 74, Sch. III,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R112618A             11-26-18    T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R121018              12-10-18    T.S.O. VII
R121718B             12-17-18    T.S.O. VII
R121718D             12-17-18    T.S.O. VII
R121718E             12-17-18    T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R121718F             12-17-18    T.S.O. VII
R121718G             12-17-18    T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R121718H             12-17-18    T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R122018A             12-17-18    T.S.O. VII
R122118              12-21-18    T.S.O. VII
R122118A             12-21-18    T.S.O. VII
R122118B             12-21-18    T.S.O. VII
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                                 II,
R122118C             12-21-18    III,
                                 V,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R122118D             12-21-18    T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R122118E             12-21-18    T.S.O. VII
R122118F             12-21-18    T.S.O. VII,
                                 VIII
R011419              1-14-19     T.S.O. II
R011419B             1-14-19     T.S.O. II
R011419C             1-14-19     T.S.O. II
R011419D             1-14-19     T.S.O. VII
R012219              1-22-19     T.S.O. VII
R012219A             1-22-19     T.S.O. VII
R012219D             1-22-19     T.S.O. VII
R012219E             1-22-19     T.S.O. VII
R012819              1-22-19     T.S.O. VII
R012819A             1-28-19     T.S.O. VII
R012819B             1-28-19     T.S.O. V
R012819C             1-28-19     T.S.O. V
R012819D             1-28-19     T.S.O. VII
R012819E             1-28-19     T.S.O. VII
R012819F             1-28-19     T.S.O. II
R021119              2-11-19     T.S.O. II
R021119A             2-11-19     T.S.O. V
R021119B             2-11-19     T.S.O. V
R021119D             2-11-19     T.S.O. V
R021119E             2-11-19     T.S.O. V
R021119F             2-11-19     T.S.O. V
R021119G             2-11-19     T.S.O. V
R021119H             2-11-19     T.S.O. V
R021119I             2-11-19     T.S.O. V
R021119J             2-11-19     T.S.O. V
R021119K             2-11-19     T.S.O. VII
R021119L             2-11-19     T.S.O. II
R021119M             2-11-19     T.S.O. II
R021819              2-18-19     T.S.O. VII
R022519              2-25-19     Ch. 74, Sch. III
R022519A             2-25-19     T.S.O. VII
R022519B             2-25-19     T.S.O. II
R022519C             2-25-19     T.S.O. VII
R022519D             2-25-19     T.S.O. II
R022519E             2-25-19     T.S.O. VII
R031119A             3-11-19     T.S.O. VII
R031119B             3-11-19     T.S.O. VII
R031119C             3-11-19     T.S.O. VII
R031119D             3-11-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R031119E             3-11-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R031819A             3-18-19     34.10,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R031819B             3-18-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R031819C             3-18-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R031819E             3-18-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R031819F             3-18-19     T.S.O. VII
R032519              3-25-19     Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                                 T.S.O. VII
R032519A             3-25-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R032519C             3-25-19     T.S.O. V,
                                 VII
R032519D             3-25-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R032519E             3-25-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R032519F             3-25-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R032519G             3-25-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R040819              4-8-19   T.S.O. VII
R040819A             4-8-19   T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R040819B             4-8-19   T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R041519              4-15-19     T.S.O. VII
R041519A             4-15-19     T.S.O. VII
R041519B             4-15-19     T.S.O. VII
R041519C             4-15-19     T.S.O. VII
R041519E             4-15-19     T.S.O. VII
R0421219             4-22-19     T.S.O. VII
R042219A             4-22-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R042219B             4-22-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R042219C             4-22-19     T.S.O. VII
R051319              5-13-19     T.S.O. VII
R051319A             5-13-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R051319B             5-13-19     T.S.O. VII
R051319C             5-13-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R051319D             5-13-19     T.S.O. VII
R052019              5-20-19     T.S.O. I
R052019A             5-20-19     T.S.O. I
R052019C             5-20-19     T.S.O. VII
R052019D             5-20-19     T.S.O. VII
R052019E             5-20-19     T.S.O. VII
R052019F             5-20-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
5052019G             5-20-19     T.S.O. VII
R052019I             5-20-19     T.S.O. VII
R052819              5-28-19     T.S.O. VII
R052819A             5-28-19     T.S.O. VII
R052819B             5-28-19     T.S.O. VII
R052819C             5-28-19     T.S.O. VII
R052819D             5-28-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R052019B             6-17-19     T.S.O. VII
R061719              6-17-19     T.S.O. VII
R061719A             6-17-19     T.S.O. I
R061719B             6-17-19     T.S.O. I
R061719D             6-17-19     T.S.O. II
R061719E             6-17-19     T.S.O. VII
R061719F             6-17-19     T.S.O. VII
R062419              6-24-19     T.S.O. VII
R062419A             6-24-19     T.S.O. VII
R062419B             6-24-19     T.S.O. VII
R062419C             6-24-19     T.S.O. VII
R070819              7-8-19      T.S.O. VII
R070819A             7-8-19      T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R070819B             7-8-19      T.S.O. VII
R070819D             7-8-19      T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R070819E             7-8-19      T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R070819F             7-8-19      T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R071519              7-15-19     T.S.O. VII
R071519A             7-15-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R071519B             7-15-19     T.S.O. VII
R071519C             7-15-19     T.S.O. VII
R071519D             7-15-19     T.S.O. VII
R071519E             7-15-19     T.S.O. I,
                                 VII
R071519F             7-15-19     T.S.O. I,
                                 VII
R073119              7-31-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R073119A             7-31-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R073119B             7-31-19     T.S.O. VII
R073119C             7-31-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R073119D             7-31-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R073119F             7-31-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R073119G             7-31-19     T.S.O. VII
R073119H             7-31-19     T.S.O. II,
                                 VII
R081219A             8-12-19     T.S.O. VII
R081219B             8-12-19     T.S.O. V
R081219C             8-12-19     T.S.O. VII
R081219D             8-12-19     T.S.O. II
R081219E             8-12-19     T.S.O. II
R081219F             8-12-19     T.S.O. II
R081219G             8-12-19     T.S.O. VII
R081919              8-19-19     T.S.O. VII
R081919A             8-19-19     T.S.O. VII
R081919B             8-19-19     T.S.O. II
R082619              8-26-19     T.S.O. II
R082619A             8-26-19     T.S.O. II
R082619E             8-26-19     T.S.O. VII
R082619F             8-26-19     T.S.O. II
R082619G             8-26-19     T.S.O. VII
R082619H             8-26-19     T.S.O. II
R082619I             8-26-19     T.S.O. II
R090919              9-9-19      T.S.O. II
R090919A             8-9-19      T.S.O. VII
R090919B             9-9-19      T.S.O. VII
R090919C             9-9-19      T.S.O. II
R091619              9-16-19     T.S.O. I
R091619A             9-16-19     T.S.O. VII
R091619B             9-16-19     T.S.O. VII
R091619C             9-16-19     T.S.O. VII
R091619D             9-16-19     T.S.O. VII
R091619E             9-16-19     T.S.O. VII
R091619G             9-16-19     T.S.O. VII
R091619J             9-16-19     T.S.O. VII
R092319              9-23-19     T.S.O. VII
R092319A             9-23-19     T.S.O. VII
R092319B             9-23-19     T.S.O. II
R092319C             9-23-19     T.S.O. II
R092319D             9-23-19     T.S.O. II
R092319E             9-23-19     T.S.O. II
R102119C             10-18-19    T.S.O. I
R102119              10-21-19    T.S.O. VII
R102119A             10-21-19    T.S.O. VII
R102119B             10-21-19    T.S.O. VII
R102119D             10-21-19    T.S.O. I
R102119E             10-21-19    T.S.O. I
R102819              10-28-19    Ch. 74, Sch. III
R102819A             10-28-19    T.S.O. VII
R102819B             10-28-19    T.S.O. II
R102819D             10-28-19    T.S.O. VII
R102819E             10-28-19    T.S.O. VII
R102819F             10-28-19    T.S.O. VII
R102819G             10-28-19    T.S.O. VII
R102819H             10-28-19    T.S.O. VII
R102819I             10-28-19    T.S.O. VII
R102819J             10-28-19    T.S.O. II
R102819K             10-28-19    T.S.O. VII
R102819L             10-28-19    T.S.O. II
R102819M             10-28-19    T.S.O. VII
R102819N             10-28-19    T.S.O. VII
R102819O             10-28-19    T.S.O. II
R102819P             10-28-19    T.S.O. II
R102819Q             10-28-19    T.S.O. II
R111219              11-12-19    T.S.O. V
R111219B             11-12-19    T.S.O. VII
R112519              11-25-19    T.S.O. VII
R112519A             - -         T.S.O. VII
R112619              11-26-19    T.S.O. I
R112619A             11-26-19    T.S.O. I
R112619B             11-26-19    T.S.O. VII
R112619C             11-26-19    T.S.O. VII
R112619D             11-26-19    T.S.O. VII
R112619E             11-26-19    T.S.O. VII
R112619G             11-26-19    T.S.O. VII
R112619H             11-26-19    T.S.O. VII
R112619I             11-26-19    T.S.O. VII
R112619J             11-26-19    T.S.O. VII
R12919               12-9-19     T.S.O. II
R12919A              12-9-19     T.S.O. VII
R12919B              12-9-19     T.S.O. VII
R12919C              12-9-19     T.S.O. II
R121619A             12-16-19    T.S.O. II
R121619B             12-16-19    T.S.O. II
R121619C             12-16-19    T.S.O. VII
R121619D             12-16-19    T.S.O. II
R121619E             12-16-19    T.S.O. VII
R121619F             12-16-19    T.S.O. VII
R121619G             12-16-19    T.S.O. VII
R121619H             12-16-19    T.S.O. VII
R121619I             12-16-19    T.S.O. II
R122019              12-20-19    T.S.O. VII
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. I,
R122019A             12-20-19    II,
                                 III
R122019B             12-20-19    T.S.O. VII
R122019C             12-20-19    T.S.O. II
R122019D             12-20-19    T.S.O. VII
R122019E             12-20-19    T.S.O. II
R122019F             12-20-19    T.S.O. II
R011320              1-13-20     T.S.O. VII
R011320A             1-13-20     T.S.O. VII
R011320B             1-13-20     T.S.O. VII
R011320C             1-13-20     T.S.O. II
R011320D             1-13-20     T.S.O. II
R011320E             1-13-20     T.S.O. II
R012120              1-21-20     T.S.O. VII
R012120A             1-21-20     T.S.O. VII
R012120B             1-21-20     T.S.O. VII
R012120C             1-21-20     T.S.O. VII
R012120E             2-17-20     T.S.O. VII
R012120F             1-21-20     T.S.O. I
R012720              1-27-20     T.S.O. VII
R012720B             1-27-20     T.S.O. VII
R012720C             1-27-20     T.S.O. VII
R012720D             1-27-20     T.S.O. VII
R012720E             1-27-20     T.S.O. VII
R012720F             1-27-20     T.S.O. II
R012720G             1-27-20     T.S.O. VII
R012720H             1-27-20     T.S.O. VII
R021020              2-10-20     T.S.O. II
R021020A             2-10-20     Ch. 75, Sch. I
R021020B             2-10-20     T.S.O. VII
R021020C             2-10-20     T.S.O. II
R021020D             2-10-20     T.S.O. VII
R021020E             2-10-20     T.S.O. VII
R021020F             2-10-20     T.S.O. VII
R021020G             2-10-20     T.S.O. VII
R021020I             2-10-20     T.S.O. II
R021020J             2-10-20     T.S.O. VII
R021720              2-17-20     T.S.O. I
R022420              2-24-20     T.S.O. VII
R022420E             2-24-20     T.S.O. VII
R022420D             2-24-20     T.S.O. II
R032320              3-23-20     T.S.O. VII
R032320A             3-23-20     34.10
R032320B             3-23-20     T.S.O. VII
R032320C             3-23-20     T.S.O. II
R032320D             3-23-20     T.S.O. II
R042020              4-20-20     T.S.O. VII
R042020A             4-20-20     T.S.O. II
R042020B             4-20-20     T.S.O. VI
R042020C             4-20-20     T.S.O. II
R042020D             4-20-20     T.S.O. VI
R042020E             4-20-20     T.S.O. I
R042020F             4-20-20     T.S.O. I
R042420              4-24-20     32.05
R042420A             4-24-20     34.20
R051820              5-18-20     T.S.O. VII
R051820A             5-18-20     T.S.O. VII
R051820B             5-18-20     T.S.O. VII
5051820C             5-18-20     T.S.O. VII
FRC03R061520         6-15-20     T.S.O. II
R072020              7-20-20     T.S.O. VII
R072020A             7-20-20     T.S.O. II
R072020B             7-20-20     T.S.O. II
R072020C             7-20-20     T.S.O. VII
R072020D             7-20-20     T.S.O. VII
R072020E             7-20-20     T.S.O. VII
R072920F             7-29-20     Ch. 74, Sch. I
R081720              8-17-20     T.S.O. VII
R081720A             8-17-20     T.S.O. II
R081720B             8-17-20     T.S.O. II
R081720C             8-17-20     T.S.O. II
R092120              9-21-20     T.S.O. VII
R092120D             9-21-20     T.S.O. II
R101920              10-19-20    T.S.O. VII
R101920A             10-19-20    T.S.O. II
R101920B             10-19-20    T.S.O. II
R101920C             10-19-20    T.S.O. II
R101920D             10-19-20    T.S.O. VII
R111620              11-16-20    T.S.O. VII
R111620A             11-16-20    T.S.O. II
R111620B             11-16-20    T.S.O. II
R111620C             11-16-20    T.S.O. II
R111620D             11-16-20    T.S.O. VII
R111620E             11-16-20    T.S.O. VII
R111620F             11-16-20    T.S.O. II
R122120              12-21-20    T.S.O. VII
R122120A             12-21-20    T.S.O. VII
R122120B             12-21-20    T.S.O. VII
R122120C             12-21-20    T.S.O. VII
R122120D             12-21-20    T.S.O. VII
R122120E             12-21-20    T.S.O. VII
R122120F             12-21-20    T.S.O. VII
R122120G             12-21-20    T.S.O. II
R122120H             12-21-20    T.S.O. II
R12210I              12-21-20    T.S.O. I
R011921              1-19-21     T.S.O. VII
R011921C             1-19-21     T.S.O. VII
R011921D             1-19-21     T.S.O. I
R011921E             1-19-21     T.S.O. I
R011921F             1-19-21     T.S.O. I
R011921G             1-19-21     T.S.O. I
R011921H             1-19-21     T.S.O. I
R021521              2-15-21     T.S.O. VII
R021521C             2-15-21     T.S.O. II
R021521D             2-15-21     T.S.O. I
R021521E             2-15-21     T.S.O. I
R031521              3-15-21     T.S.O. VII
R031521A             3-15-21     T.S.O. II
R031521B             3-15-21     T.S.O. VII
R031521C             3-15-21     T.S.O. II
R031521D             3-15-21     34.10
R041921              4-19-21     T.S.O. VII
R041921A             4-19-21     T.S.O. VII
R041921B             4-19-21     T.S.O. I
R041921C             4-19-21     T.S.O. I
R041921D             4-19-21     T.S.O. I
R041921E             4-19-21     T.S.O. I
R051721              5-17-21     T.S.O. VII
R051721A             5-17-21     T.S.O. VII
R062121              6-21-21     T.S.O. VII
R062121A             6-21-21     T.S.O. II
R062121B             6-21-21     T.S.O. VII
R062121C             6-21-21     T.S.O. II
R062121D             6-21-21     T.S.O. VII
R062121E             6-21-21     T.S.O. I
R062121F             6-21-21     T.S.O. I
R071921              7-19-21     T.S.O. VII
R071921B             7-19-21     T.S.O. II
R071921C             7-19-21     T.S.O. VII
R071921D             7-19-21     T.S.O. II
R081621              8-16-21     T.S.O. VII
R081621A             8-16-21     T.S.O. VII
R081621B             8-16-21     T.S.O. VII
R081621C             8-16-21     T.S.O. II
R092021              9-20-21     T.S.O. VII
R092021A             9-20-21     T.S.O. II
R092021B             9-20-21     T.S.O. II
R101121              10-11-21    T.S.O. VII
R101121A             10-11-21    T.S.O. I
R111521              11-15-21    T.S.O. VII
R111521A             11-15-21    T.S.O. VII
R111521B             11-15-21    T.S.O. II
R111521C             11-15-21    T.S.O. VII
R111521D             11-15-21    T.S.O. VIII
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. I;
R121321A             12-13-21    Ch. 74, Sch. II;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. VI
R122021              12-20-21    T.S.O. VII
R122021A             12-20-21    T.S.O. VII
122021B              12-20-21    30.11
R011822              1-18-22     T.S.O. VII
R011822B             1-18-22     T.S.O. VII
R022122              2-21-22     T.S.O. VII
R022122A             2-21-22     T.S.O. II
R022122B             2-21-22     T.S.O. II
R022122C             2-21-22     T.S.O. I
R022122D             2-21-22     T.S.O. I
R022122E             2-21-22     T.S.O. I
R032122              3-21-22     T.S.O. VII
R032122A             3-21-22     T.S.O. VII
R041822              4-18-22     T.S.O. VII
R041822A             4-18-22     34.10
R041822C             4-18-22     T.S.O. I
R041822D             4-18-22     T.S.O. VII
R041822B             5-16-22     T.S.O. VII
R051622              5-16-22     T.S.O. VII
R051622A             5-16-22     T.S.O. VII
R051622B             5-16-22     T.S.O. VII
R051622D             5-16-22     T.S.O. I
R051622E             5-16-22     T.S.O. I
R051622F             5-16-22     T.S.O. I
R051622G             5-16-22     T.S.O. I
R062022              6-20-22     T.S.O. VII
R062022A             6-20-22     T.S.O. VII
R062022B             6-20-22     T.S.O. VII
R062022C             6-20-22     T.S.O. VII
R062022D             6-20-22     T.S.O. VII
R062022E             6-20-22     T.S.O. VII
R062022F             6-20-22     T.S.O. I
R062022G             6-20-22     T.S.O. I
R062822E             6-28-22     Ch. 74, Sch. I
R071822              7-18-22     T.S.O. VII
R071822A             7-18-22     T.S.O. VII
R071822B             7-18-22     T.S.O. II
R081522              8-15-22     T.S.O. VII
R081522A             8-15-22     T.S.O. VII
R081522B             8-15-22     T.S.O. II
R081522C             8-15-22     T.S.O. I
R081522D             8-15-22     T.S.O. I
R091922              9-19-22     T.S.O. VII
R091922A             9-19-22     T.S.O. II
R091922B             9-19-22     T.S.O. VII
R091922C             9-19-22     T.S.O. VII
R091922D             9-19-22     T.S.O. VII
R091922E             9-19-22     T.S.O. VII
R091922F             9-19-22     T.S.O. I
R091922G             9-19-22     T.S.O. II
R091922H             9-19-22     T.S.O. II
R091922I             9-19-22     T.S.O. II
R101022              10-10-22    T.S.O. VII
R101022A             10-10-22    T.S.O. II
R101022B             10-10-22    T.S.O. II
R111422              11-14-22    T.S.O. VII
R111422A             11-14-22    T.S.O. VII
R111422B             11-14-22    T.S.O. VII
R111422C             11-14-22    T.S.O. VII
R111422D             11-14-22    T.S.O. VII
R121922              12-19-22    T.S.O. VII
R121922A             12-19-22    T.S.O. VII
R121922B             12-19-22    T.S.O. VII
R121922C             12-19-22    T.S.O. II
R121922D             12-19-22    T.S.O. VIII
R122722              12-27-22    Ch. 74, Sch. II
R122722B             12-27-22    Ch. 74, Sch. I;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
R011723              1-17-23     T.S.O. VII
R011723A             1-17-23     T.S.O. VII
R011723C             1-17-23     T.S.O. I
R011723D             1-17-23     T.S.O. I
R022023              2-20-23     T.S.O. VII
R022023A             2-20-23     T.S.O. I
R032023              3-20-23     T.S.O. VII
R032023B             3-20-23     T.S.O. VII
R032023C             3-20-23     T.S.O. VII
R032023D             3-20-23     T.S.O. I
R041723              4-17-23     T.S.O. VII
R041723A             4-17-23     T.S.O. VII
R041723B             4-20-23     T.S.O. VIII
R051523              5-15-23     T.S.O. VII
R051523A             5-15-23     T.S.O. VII
R051523B             5-15-23     T.S.O. VII
R051523C             5-15-23     T.S.O. VII
R051523D             5-15-23     T.S.O. VIII
R051523E             5-15-23     T.S.O. II
R051523F             5-15-23     T.S.O. VII
R051523G             5-15-23     T.S.O. I
R051523H             5-15-23     T.S.O. I
R051523I             5-15-23     T.S.O. I
R061923              6-19-23     T.S.O. VII
R061923A             6-19-23     T.S.O. VII
R061923B             6-19-23     T.S.O. VII
R061923C             6-19-23     T.S.O. VI
R061923D             6-19-23     T.S.O. VII
R061923E             6-19-23     T.S.O. VI
R061923F             6-19-23     T.S.O. VII
R061923G             6-19-23     T.S.O. VII
R071223              7-12-23     T.S.O. VII
R071223A             7-12-23     T.S.O. VII
R072523A             7-25-23     Ch. 75, Sch. I
R082123              8-21-23     T.S.O. VII
R082123A             8-21-23     T.S.O. VII
R082123B             8-21-23     T.S.O. VII
R082123C             8-21-23     T.S.O. VII
R082123D             8-21-23     T.S.O. VI
R082123E             8-21-23     T.S.O. VI
R082123F             8-21-23     T.S.O. VII
R082123G             8-21-23     T.S.O. VII
R082123H             8-21-23     T.S.O. VII
R082131I             8-21-23     T.S.O. VIII
R082123J             8-21-23     T.S.O. I
R082123K             8-21-23     T.S.O. I
R082123L             8-21-23     T.S.O. I
R082123M             8-21-23     T.S.O. VIII
R091823              9-18-23     T.S.O. VII
R091823A             9-18-23     T.S.O. VII
R091823B             9-18-23     T.S.O. I
R091823C             9-18-23     T.S.O. I
R091223E             9-12-23     Ch. 74, Sch. III
R100923              10-9-23     T.S.O. VII
R100923A             10-9-23     T.S.O. II
R100923D             10-9-23     T.S.O. VIII
R100923E             10-9-23     T.S.O. I
R100923F             10-9-23     T.S.O. I
R100923G             10-9-23     T.S.O. I
R112023              11-20-23    T.S.O. VII
R112023A             11-20-23    T.S.O. VII
R112023B             11-20-23    T.S.O. VIII
R112023C             11-20-23    T.S.O. I
R121823              12-18-23    T.S.O. VII
R121823A             12-18-23    T.S.O. VII
R121823B             12-18-23    T.S.O. VII
R121823C             12-18-23    T.S.O. VII
R121823D             12-18-23    T.S.O. VII
R121823E             12-18-23    T.S.O. VII
R121823F             12-18-23    T.S.O. VII
R121823G             12-18-23    T.S.O. VII
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. I;
R122723D             12-27-23    Ch. 74, Sch. II;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
R011624              1-16-24     T.S.O. VII
R011624B             1-16-24     T.S.O. I
R011624C             1-16-24     T.S.O. I
R031824              3-18-24     T.S.O. VII
R031824A             3-18-24     T.S.O. VII
R031824B             3-18-24     T.S.O. VII
R031824C             3-18-27     T.S.O. VIII
R041524              4-15-24     T.S.O. VII
R041524A             4-15-24     T.S.O. VII
R041524B             4-15-24     T.S.O. VII
R041524C             4-15-24     T.S.O. II
R041524F             4-15-24     T.S.O. VII
R052024              5-20-24     T.S.O. VII
R052024A             5-20-24     T.S.O. IV
R052024B             5-20-24     T.S.O. II
R052024C             5-20-24     T.S.O. II
R052024D             5-20-24     T.S.O. VIII
R052024E             5-20-24     T.S.O. VIII
R052024F             5-20-24     T.S.O. VIII
R052024G             5-20-24     T.S.O. IV
R052024H             5-20-24     T.S.O. VIII
R061724              6-17-24     T.S.O. VII
R061724A             6-17-24     T.S.O. VII
R061724B             6-17-24     T.S.O. VII
R061724C             6-17-24     T.S.O. VII
R061724D             6-17-24     T.S.O. VII
R061724E             6-17-24     T.S.O. VII
R061724F             6-17-24     T.S.O. VII
R071524              7-15-24     T.S.O. VII
R071524A             7-15-24     T.S.O. VII
R071524B             7-15-24     T.S.O. VII
R071524C             7-15-24     T.S.O. VIII
R081924              8-19-24     T.S.O. VII
R081924A             8-19-24     T.S.O. VII
R090924              9-9-24      T.S.O. VII
R090924A             9-9-24      T.S.O. VII
R090924B             9-9-24      T.S.O. VII
R090924C             9-9-24      T.S.O. I
R090924D             9-9-24      T.S.O. I
R090924E             9-9-24      T.S.O. VII
R031224I             3-12-24     Ch. 74, Sch. I
R072324              7-23-24     Ch. 74, Sch. I
R100724              10-7-24     T.S.O. VII
R100724A             10-7-24     T.S.O. VII
R100724B             10-7-24     T.S.O. VII
R100724C             10-7-24     T.S.O. VII
R100724E             10-7-24     T.S.O. II
R111824              11-18-24    T.S.O. VII
R111824A             11-18-24    T.S.O. II
R111824B             11-18-24    T.S.O. II
R111824C             11-18-24    T.S.O. II
R111824D             11-18-24    T.S.O. II
R111824E             11-18-24    T.S.O. VII
R121624              12-16-24    T.S.O. VII
R121624A             12-16-24    T.S.O. VII
R121624B             12-16-24    T.S.O. VII
R121624C             12-16-24    T.S.O. I
R121624D             12-16-24    T.S.O. I
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. I;
R122024J             12-20-24    Ch. 74, Sch. II;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
R011325              1-13-25     T.S.O. VII
R011425B             1-14-25     Ch. 74, Sch. I;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
R022425              2-24-25     T.S.O. VII
R022425B             2-24-25     T.S.O. VII
R022425C             2-24-25     T.S.O. VII
R032525M             3-25-25     Ch. 75, Sch. I
FRC 04R040125        3-11-25     T.S.O. VII
R031725              3-17-25     T.S.O. VII
R031725A             3-17-25     T.S.O. VII
R031725B             3-17-25     T.S.O. VII
R042125              4-21-25     T.S.O. VII
R042125C             4-21-25     T.S.O. VII
                                
                                
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
4          12-22-64    130.01,
                       130.99
10-4-65    - -         34.10
110685     12-18-65    T.S.O. I
11-6-67    11-6-67     T.S.O. II
1-5-70     1-5-70      T.S.O. II
12-6-71    12-6-71     T.S.O. I
12-6-71-A  12-6-71     T.S.O. I
12         12-6-71     32.50 -
                       32.53
7-3-72     7-3-72      T.S.O. VI
8-7-72     8-7-72      T.S.O. VI
                       93.01 -
2-5-73     2-5-73      93.09,
                       93.99
1-7-74     1-7-74      T.S.O. I
2-4-74     2-4-74      T.S.O. VI
6-3-74     6-3-74      T.S.O. I
4-7-75-A   4-7-75      94.20 -
                       94.25
9-3-75     9-3-75      T.S.O. VI
3-1-76B    3-1-76      T.S.O. VI
ZA9-4-75A  3-1-76      T.S.O. VI
2-7-77     3-7-77      T.S.O. I
9-7-77     9-7-77      T.S.O. VI
1-23-78    1-23-78     T.S.O. II
1-8-79B    1-8-79      T.S.O. I
1-8-79C    1-8-79      T.S.O. I
1-8-79A    2-8-79      T.S.O. VI
2-19-79D   2-19-79     T.S.O. VI
5-7-79A    5-7-79      32.30 -
                       32.36
                       95.01 -
7-2-79     7-2-79      95.06,
                       95.99
11-5-79    11-5-79     T.S.O. I
11-19-79   11-19-79    T.S.O. I
12-17-79   12-17-79    T.S.O. VI
1-7-80     1-7-80      T.S.O. I
1-21-80    1-21-80     T.S.O. I
4-14-80B   4-14-80     T.S.O. VI
4-14-80-A  4-14-80     T.S.O. VI
                       159.04 -
3-17-80    5-5-80      159.10,
                       159.13
9-15-80    9-15-80     T.S.O. III
                       150.01 -
                       150.05,
                       150.10 -
                       150.14,
                       152.01 -
                       152.05,
                       152.10 -
                       152.13,
110380     11-3-80     152.20 -
                       152.24,
                       156.01,
                       156.02,
                       156.10 -
                       156.12,
                       156.14,
                       156.20 -
                       156.29,
                       156.99
1-19-81    1-19-81     T.S.O. I
4-6-81     5-4-81      T.S.O. VI
050481     5-4-81      51.70 -
                       51.72
7-11-83    7-11-83     156.12
81583      8-22-83     T.S.O. VI
82283      8-22-83     T.S.O. I
91283      9-12-83     T.S.O. II
72583      10-3-83     T.S.O. VI
071684     7-16-84     51.70
                       51.55,
071684A    8-20-84     51.56,
                       51.59 -
                       51.61
09-10-84   9-10-84     T.S.O. I
8-20-84-A  10-1-84     34.10
                       113.01,
                       113.02,
                       113.10 -
                       113.13,
                       113.15 -
                       113.17,
08-20-84   10-1-84     113.20 -
                       113.22,
                       113.24,
                       113.25,
                       113.30 -
                       113.36,
                       113.99
030685     5-1-85      110.01 -
                       110.13
                       70.01 -
                       70.07,
                       70.15 -
                       70.21,
                       70.40 -
                       70.43,
                       70.99,
                       71.01 -
                       71.06,
                       71.15,
                       71.16,
040385     5-1-85      71.20,
                       71.30,
                       72.01,
                       72.10 -
                       72.12,
                       72.14,
                       72.20 -
                       72.24,
                       72.30 -
                       72.34,
                       73.01 - 73.06,
                       Ch. 74; Sched. II,
                       Ch. 75; Sched. I
020685     5-2-85      32.31
061985     6-19-85     T.S.O. VI
090285     8-14-85     152.01
073185     8-28-85     T.S.O. VI
092585     9-25-85     T.S.O. VI
110685     12-18-85    T.S.O. I
112085     12-18-85    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
121885A    12-18-85    T.S.O. IV
12-18-85   1-22-86     T.S.O. I
                       160.01,
120485     1-22-86     160.02,
                       160.04 -
                       160.08
121885A    1-22-86     T.S.O. VI
080686A    8-6-86      156.12
082086     9-30-86     T.S.O. I
093086     9-30-86     T.S.O. VI
020586     10-1-86     T.S.O. I
080686     10-16-86    T.S.O. I
121786A    12-17-86    T.S.O. VI
012187     1-18-87     94.01
031887-2   3-18-87     T.S.O. VI
031887-1B  4-1-87      T.S.O. VI
031887-1F  4-1-87      T.S.O. VI
031887-1E  4-1-87      T.S.O. VI
031887-1J  4-1-87      T.S.O. VI
031887-1D  4-1-87      T.S.O. VI
031887-1C  4-1-87      T.S.O. VI
031887-1G  4-1-87      T.S.O. VI
031887-1H  4-1-87      T.S.O. VI
031887-1A  4-1-87      T.S.O. VI
020487     5-6-87      T.S.O. I
050687B    5-6-87      T.S.O. VI
050687A    5-6-87      T.S.O. VI
06-03-87   6-3-87      T.S.O. VI
08-19-87   9-2-87      34.10
061787A    9-2-87      T.S.O. I
                       50.01 -
                       50.03,
09-02-87   10-7-87     50.05,
                       50.06,
                       50.99
110487     11-18-87    T.S.O. I
110487A    12-2-87     T.S.O. I
021788     2-17-88     T.S.O. VI
020388     3-2-88      156.12
030288     3-2-88      T.S.O. VI
04-20-88C  4-20-88     32.25
040688-B   4-20-88     T.S.O. VI
040688-A   4-20-88     T.S.O. VI
040688-C   4-20-88     T.S.O. VI
042088     4-20-88     T.S.O. VI
042088A    4-20-88     T.S.O. VI
042088B    4-20-88     T.S.O. VI
                       154.01 -
                       154.03,
                       154.10,
                       154.15 -
040688     5-4-88      154.20,
                       154.25 -
                       154.31,
                       154.98,
                       154.99
030288B    6-15-88     T.S.O. I
030288A    6-15-88     T.S.O. I
061588     6-15-88     T.S.O. IV
061588C    6-15-88     70.99
061588     6-15-88     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
061588A    7-1-88      70.30,
                       70.31
                       51.01 -
                       51.07,
                       51.15 -
061588B    7-20-88     51.17,
                       51.25 -
                       51.31,
                       51.40 -
                       51.49
080388     8-3-88      T.S.O. V
081788     8-17-88     T.S.O. IV
061788D    9-7-88      T.S.O. I
090788B    9-7-88      T.S.O. IV
08-17-88   9-17-88     T.S.O. VI
08-17-88A  9-29-88     T.S.O. I
080388A    9-29-88     T.S.O. I
090788A    10-19-88    T.S.O. I
090788     10-19-88    T.S.O. I
101988     10-19-88    T.S.O. VI
092988     11-2-88     T.S.O. I
110288B    12-7-88     T.S.O. VI
08-03-88   1-4-89      T.S.O. I
010489     1-4-89      T.S.O. I
011889     1-18-89     T.S.O. VI
011889-A   1-18-89     T.S.O. VI
021589     2-21-89     T.S.O. VI
03-27-89   3-27-89     32.15 -
                       32.17
050389     5-3-89      T.S.O. I,
                       VI
041989     5-17-89     T.S.O. I
051789     6-7-89      51.55 -
                       51.61
060789     6-21-89     T.S.O. I
                       111.01 -
                       111.03,
                       111.10 -
                       111.14,
070589A    7-5-89      111.20 -
                       111.25,
                       111.30 -
                       111.35,
                       111.99
021589B    7-19-89     T.S.O. I
071989B    7-19-89     T.S.O. VI
071989D    7-19-89     T.S.O. IV
070589-1   9-4-89      T.S.O. I
08-16-89   9-6-89      152.01
062189     9-6-89      T.S.O. I
081689A    9-10-89     T.S.O. VI
081689B    9-10-89     T.S.O. VI
062189A    9-20-89     T.S.O. VI
070589-5   10-4-89     T.S.O. I
070589-2   10-4-89     T.S.O. I
070589-3   10-4-89     T.S.O. I
070589-4   10-4-89     T.S.O. I
100489     10-4-89     T.S.O. VI
070689A    11-1-89     T.S.O. VI
092089C    11-1-89     T.S.O. VI
092089B    11-1-89     T.S.O. I
122089B    12-20-89    T.S.O. IV
122089C    12-20-89    33.20,
                       33.21
122089D    1-17-90     T.S.O. VI
080890A    1-23-90     156.12
122089A    2-6-90      T.S.O. I,
                       VI
122089B    2-6-90      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
011790     2-21-90     T.S.O. VI
3-2-90     3-2-90      51.08
040490     4-18-90     T.S.O. I
041890B    4-18-90     T.S.O. IV
041890C    4-18-90     32.01,
                       32.02
                       94.10 -
041890     4-18-90     94.16,
                       94.99
041890B    5-16-90     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
041890A    5-16-90     T.S.O. I
051690A    6-20-90     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
051690     6-20-90     T.S.O. I
                       113.01,
                       113.02,
                       113.10 -
                       113.13,
                       113.15 -
                       113.17,
062090C    6-20-90     113.20 -
                       113.22,
                       113.24,
                       113.25,
                       113.30 -
                       113.36,
                       113.99
051690B    7-18-90     T.S.O. I
051690C    7-18-90     T.S.O. VI
080890     8-8-90      34.10
                       153.99,
0602090D   8-22-90     154.99,
                       156.99
071890A    9-5-90      T.S.O. VI
071890     9-5-90      T.S.O. I
100390A    10-3-90     T.S.O. VI
100390     10-3-90     T.S.O. I
101790B    10-17-90    30.05
120590F    12-5-90     T.S.O. I
120590G    12-5-90     T.S.O. VI
120590A    12-5-90     154.99,
                       156.99
120590C    12-18-90    30.02
111589     12-20-90    T.S.O. I
                       111.01 -
                       111.03,
                       111.10 -
                       111.14,
010991A    1-9-91      111.20 -
                       111.25,
                       111.30 -
                       111.35,
                       111.99
120590E    1-23-91     T.S.O. I
020691     3-6-91      T.S.O. VI
022091G    3-6-91      32.17
                       71.05,
022091E    3-6-91      71.06,
                       71.20
022091C    3-6-91      90.01 -
                       90.12
022091D    3-6-91      110.12
022091B    3-6-91      130.99
022091A    3-20-91     T.S.O. VI
022091     3-20-91     T.S.O. I
041791C    5-15-91     72.15
051591A    5-15-91     33.22
                       159.01,
051591     5-15-91     159.04 -
                       159.10,
                       159.13
032091     6-19-91     T.S.O. I
032091A    6-19-91     T.S.O. VI
041791     5-15-91     T.S.O. II
041791A    5-15-91     T.S.O. II
060591     7-17-91     51.80
060591A    6-19-91     T.S.O. I
060591B    6-19-91     T.S.O. VI
060591C    6-19-91     T.S.O. I
060591D    6-19-91     T.S.O. VI
090391     9-18-91     T.S.O. I
09-03-91E  11-6-91     156.40 -
                       156.52
09-1891C   10-2-91     32.65 -
                       32.67
100291     12-17-91    T.S.O. I
100291A    12-17-91    T.S.O. VI
110691A    11-20-91    T.S.O. I
110691B    11-20-91    T.S.O. VI
110691C    11-20-91    35.01,
                       35.02
121791     12-17-91    Adopting Ordinance
121791C    12-17-91    156.40,
                       156.44
010892     - -92       156.42
030492     1-18-92     T.S.O. I
012292     1-22-92     T.S.O. I
012292A    1-22-92     T.S.O. VI
121791A    1-22-92     T.S.O. I
121791B    1-22-92     T.S.O. VI
030492     3-18-92     T.S.O. VI
030492B    3-18-92     T.S.O. VI
031892A    4-8-92      33.22
061792     6-17-92     T.S.O. VI
061792A    6-17-92     70.99
060392     7-1-92      T.S.O. I
060392A    7-1-92      T.S.O. VI
060392B    7-1-92      Ch. 96
040892     7-15-92     T.S.O. I
040892A    7-15-92     T.S.O. IV
070192     7-15-92     T.S.O. I
070192A    7-15-92     T.S.O. VI
071592     7-15-92     34.11
071592B    7-15-92     34.02
080592     8-19-92     T.S.O. I
080592A    8-19-92     T.S.O. VI
080592B    8-19-92     T.S.O. I
080592C    8-19-92     T.S.O. VI
080592D    9-9-92      T.S.O. I
080592E    9-9-82      T.S.O. IV
080592F    9-9-92      T.S.O. VI
081992     8-19-92     T.S.O. VI
090992     9-9-92      T.S.O. VI
090992A    9-9-92      Adopting Ordinance
092392     12-28-92    150.05
100792     11-4-92     T.S.O. I
100792A    11-4-92     T.S.O. IV
100792B    11-4-92     T.S.O. IV
110492D    12-28-92    T.S.O. I
110492E    12-28-92    T.S.O. VI
110492F    11-18-92    T.S.O. I
110492G    11-18-92    T.S.O. VI
110492H    12-28-92    T.S.O. I
110492I    12-28-92    T.S.O. VI
110492J    12-9-92     51.70
120992     12-28-92    T.S.O. I
120992A    12-28-92    T.S.O. VI
122892     12-28-92    T.S.O. VI
122892A    1-6-92      T.S.O. VI
120992B    12-9-92     30.02
--         2-17-93     T.S.O. V
020393     2-17-93     T.S.O. I
020393A    2-17-93     T.S.O. VI
030293     3-24-93     T.S.O. I
030293A    3-24-93     T.S.O. VI
--         4-12-93     T.S.O. V
010693     5-5-93      T.S.O. I
010693A    5-5-93      T.S.O. VI
020393B    5-5-93      T.S.O. I
020393C    5-5-93      T.S.O. VI
040793A    5-26-93     T.S.O. I
040793B    5-26-93     T.S.O. VI
040793C    5-5-93      T.S.O. I
040793D    5-5-93      T.S.O. VI
050593     5-5-93      T.S.O. VI
050593A    5-26-93     T.S.O. I
050593B    5-26-93     T.S.O. VI
062393     6-23-93     T.S.O. VI
070793     7-21-93     34.10
072193     7-21-93     T.S.O. VI
--         9-1-93      T.S.O. V
091593     9-15-93     T.S.O. I
--         10-6-93     T.S.O. V
--         10-15-93    T.S.O. V
040793     11-17-93    156.12
102093     11-17-93    T.S.O. VI
110393     11-17-93    T.S.O. VI
110393A    11-3-93     T.S.O. V
110393B    11-3-93     114.01,
                       114.02
111793B    11-17-93    51.70
111793C    11-17-93    51.70
120193     12-15-93    T.S.O. I
120193A    12-15-93    T.S.O. VI
120193B    12-1-93     T.S.O. I
120193D    12-15-93    T.S.O. I
120193E    12-1-93     T.S.O. I
120193F    12-15-93    T.S.O. I
120193G    12-1-93     T.S.O. I
120193H    12-1-93     T.S.O. I
121593     12-15-93    T.S.O. VI
010694     1-19-94     T.S.O. I
010694A    1-19-94     T.S.O. VI
010694B    1-19-94     T.S.O. VI
010694C    1-19-94     T.S.O. VI
010694D    1-19-94     T.S.O. VI
010694E    3-30-94     T.S.O. II
011994     1-19-94     Adopting Ordinance
020294     3-2-94      T.S.O. I
020294A    3-2-94      T.S.O. VI
020294B    3-2-94      T.S.O. I
020294C    3-2-94      T.S.O. VI
020294D    3-2-94      T.S.O. VI
020294E    3-2-94      T.S.O. VI
020294F    3-2-94      T.S.O. VI
030294     3-16-94     T.S.O. I
030294A    3-16-94     T.S.O. VI
030294C    3-2-94      T.S.O. VI
--         3-30-94     T.S.O. II
033094     4-20-94     T.S.O. I
033094A    4-20-94     T.S.O. VI
033094B    4-20-94     51.65 -
                       51.67
033094G    4-20-94     T.S.O. I
033094H    4-20-94     T.S.O. VI
033094I    4-20-94     T.S.O. I
033094J    4-20-94     T.S.O. VI
042094     5-4-94      72.16
050494     6-8-94      T.S.O. I
050494A    6-8-94      T.S.O. VI
050494B    6-8-94      T.S.O. VI
050494C    6-8-94      T.S.O. VI
050494D    6-8-94      T.S.O. I
050494E    6-8-94      T.S.O. VI
072094     8-17-94     T.S.O. I
072094A    8-17-94     T.S.O. VI
072094B    8-24-94     T.S.O. IV
090794C    9-7-94      T.S.O. V
042094B    7-6-94      51.70
090794     1-25-95     T.S.O. I
090794A    2-15-95     T.S.O. VI
090794B    12-7-94     32.75 -
                       32.80
100594A    12-19-94    T.S.O. VI
120794     12-19-94    T.S.O. I
120794A    12-19-94    T.S.O. VI
121994C    12-19-94    T.S.O. I
012595B    1-25-95     Adopting Ordinance
012595C    1-25-95     T.S.O. VI
021595     3-15-95     T.S.O. I
021595A    3-15-95     T.S.O. VI
031595     4-5-95      150.05
021595B    2-15-95     T.S.O. I
021595C    4-19-95     T.S.O. VI
030195     8-23-95     T.S.O. I
030195A    4-19-95     T.S.O. I
030195B    4-19-95     T.S.O. VI
031595A    6-21-95     T.S.O. I
031595B    7-19-95     T.S.O. VI
051095     6-7-95      T.S.O. I
051095A    6-7-95      T.S.O. VI
051095B    6-7-95      T.S.O. VI
051095C    5-10-95     T.S.O. I
051095D    6-7-95      T.S.O. I
051095E    6-7-95      T.S.O. VI
0060795    6-21-95     T.S.O. VI
062195A    6-21-95     T.S.O. I
080995     8-23-95     T.S.O. I
080995A    8-23-95     T.S.O. VI
090695B    9-6-95      T.S.O. I
092595     9-25-95     T.S.O. VIII
062195     10-4-96     T.S.O. IV
082395     10-4-95     T.S.O. III
090695     10-4-95     T.S.O. I
090695A    10-4-95     T.S.O. IV
100495B    10-4-95     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
100495     10-18-95    T.S.O. I
100495A    10-18-95    T.S.O. IV
101895     12-6-95     94.26
122095C    12-20-95    T.S.O. VIII
Dedication 1-10-96     T.S.O. V
122095     1-24-96     T.S.O. I
122095A    1-24-96     T.S.O. VI
011096B    2-21-96     T.S.O. I
011096C    2-21-96     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
020796     2-7-96      Adopting Ordinance
020796A    2-21-96     T.S.O. I
020796B    2-21-96     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
020796C    3-6-96      T.S.O. VI
020796E    2-21-96     96.04
040396     4-17-96     T.S.O. VI
050196     5-1-96      T.S.O. I
052296B    5-22-96     35.15
052296C    5-22-96     T.S.O. I
052296D    5-22-96     T.S.O. VI
Dedication 6-1-96      T.S.O. V
120496A    6-25-97     150.05
Dedication 7-9-96      T.S.O. V
Dedication 7-16-96     T.S.O. V
072496     7-24-96     T.S.O. IV
Dedication 7-25-96     T.S.O. V
080796     8-19-96     T.S.O. I
080796A    8-19-96     T.S.O. VI
080796B    8-19-96     T.S.O. I
090496     9-25-96     T.S.O. I
090496A    9-25-96     T.S.O. VI
Dedication 9-26-96     T.S.O. V
Dedication 10-4-96     T.S.O. V
Dedication 10-7-96     T.S.O. V
092596B    10-23-96    T.S.O. I
092596C    10-23-96    T.S.O. VI
100996A    10-23-96    T.S.O. VI
100996B    10-23-96    T.S.O. IV
100996C    10-23-96    T.S.O. VI
100996D    10-23-96    T.S.O. VI
Dedication 12-13-96    T.S.O. V
120496     12-18-96    T.S.O. VI
010897     2-5-97      T.S.O. VI
020597     2-5-97      Adopting Ordinance
020597A    3-5-97      T.S.O. I
020597B    3-5-97      T.S.O. VI
Dedication 3-10-97     T.S.O. V
031997     4-16-97     T.S.O. I
031997A    4-16-97     T.S.O. VI
Dedication 4-16-97     T.S.O. V
Dedication 4-16-97     T.S.O. V
Dedication 4-16-97     T.S.O. V
Dedication 4-16-97     T.S.O. V
041697     5-7-97      34.04
050797B    5-7-97      34.04
060497B    6-25-97     T.S.O. I
060497C    6-25-97     T.S.O. VI
060497D    7-16-97     51.72
Dedication 7-16-97     T.S.O. V
062597A    8-6-97      51.70
062597     8-20-97     T.S.O. IV
Dedication 9-3-97      T.S.O. V
Dedication 9-17-97     T.S.O. V
Dedication 9-26-97     T.S.O. V
100197     10-15-97    T.S.O. I
100197A    10-15-97    T.S.O. VI
Dedication 11-5-97     T.S.O. V
Dedication 11-19-97    T.S.O. V
100197B    11-19-97    T.S.O. I
100197C    11-19-97    T.S.O. VI
110597E    11-19-97    T.S.O. VI
110597A    12-10-97    T.S.O. I
110597F    12-10-97    T.S.O. IV
111997     12-10-97    T.S.O. I
111997A    12-10-97    T.S.O. IV
111997B    12-10-97    T.S.O. IV
111997C    12-10-97    T.S.O. IV
Dedication 12-10-97    T.S.O. V
Dedication 12-10-97    T.S.O. V
122997A    12-29-97    51.70
Dedication 1-5-98      T.S.O. V
012198     1-21-98     Adopting Ordinance
010798B    1-21-98     T.S.O. I
010798C    1-21-98     T.S.O. IV
010798F    1-21-98     T.S.O. I
010798J    1-21-98     T.S.O. I
010798     1-21-98     T.S.O. IV
010798G    1-21-98     T.S.O. VI
010798K    1-21-98     T.S.O. VI
010798     2-4-98      T.S.O. I
010798A    2-4-98      T.S.O. VI
020498     2-18-98     T.S.O. IV
020498B    2-18-98     T.S.O. I
020498C    2-18-98     T.S.O. IV
Dedication 3-19-98     T.S.O. V
Dedication 3-19-98     T.S.O. V
030498     4-1-98      T.S.O. I
Dedication 4-1-98      T.S.O. V
041598     4-15-98     32.75 -
                       32.78
040198D    5-6-98      T.S.O. I
040198E    5-6-98      T.S.O. VI
040198G    5-6-98      T.S.O. VI
040198     5-20-98     T.S.O. I
040198B    5-20-98     T.S.O. I
040198A    5-20-98     T.S.O. VI
040198C    5-20-98     T.S.O. VI
050698C    5-20-98     T.S.O. VI
Dedication 6-24-98     T.S.O. V
060398     6-24-98     T.S.O. I
060398A    6-24-98     T.S.O. VI
060398B    6-24-98     T.S.O. VI
070898     7-22-98     T.S.O. IV
090298     9-15-98     T.S.O. I
090298A    9-15-98     T.S.O. IV
090298B    10-7-98     T.S.O. I
090298C    5-19-99     T.S.O. IV
090298D    9-15-98     T.S.O. IV
09158      10-7-98     33.22
100798     10-7-98     T.S.O. I
                       34.11,
                       50.06,
                       70.19,
                       70.40 -
                       70.42,
100798B    10-21-98    71.05,
                       72.14,
                       72.16, 73.04,
                       90.01,
                       94.21,
                       110.05,
                       111.02
102198     10-21-98    T.S.O. I
102198A    10-21-98    T.S.O. I
102198B    10-21-98    T.S.O. I
102198C    10-21-98    T.S.O. I
102198E    10-21-98    T.S.O. I
102198F    10-21-98    T.S.O. V
110498A    11-18-98    T.S.O. VI
110498B    11-18-98    T.S.O. VI
110498C    11-18-98    T.S.O. IV
121698     12-16-98    T.S.O. VIII
010699     1-20-99     150.05
020399     4-7-99      T.S.O. I
020399A    4-7-99      T.S.O. I
020399B    4-7-99      T.S.O. IV
020399C    4-7-99      T.S.O. VI
040799     4-7-99      Adopting Ordinance
040799A    5-5-99      T.S.O. I
040799B    5-5-99      T.S.O. VI
040799C    5-5-99      T.S.O. I
040799D    5-5-99      T.S.O. VI
070699B    9-7-99      T.S.O. I
070699C    9-7-99      T.S.O. VI
Dedication 9-9-99      T.S.O. V
070699     9-20-99     T.S.O. I
070699A    9-20-99     T.S.O. VI
Dedication 11-1-99     T.S.O. V
Dedication 11-1-99     T.S.O. V
Dedication 11-1-99     T.S.O. V
Dedication 11-1-99     T.S.O. V
101899     12-6-99     72.13
Dedication 1-20-00     T.S.O. V
Dedication 1-20-00     T.S.O. V
110199     1-24-00     152.01
120699     3-20-00     T.S.O. I
120699A    3-20-00     T.S.O. VI
120699B    1-24-00     T.S.O. IV
030600     7-17-00     T.S.O. I
030600A    7-17-00     T.S.O. VI
030600B    3-20-00     T.S.O. IV
030600C    3-20-00     35.30
032000     10-2-00     T.S.O. I
032000A    10-2-00     T.S.O. VI
032000B    6-19-00     T.S.O. I
032000C    5-1-00      T.S.O. VI
032000D    10-2-00     T.S.O. I
032000E    8-14-00     T.S.O. IV
032000F    10-2-00     T.S.O. I
032000G    8-14-00     T.S.O. VI
050100     5-1-00      Adopting Ordinance
050100A    6-19-00     36.02 -
                       36.08
051500     1-8-01      T.S.O. I
051500A    10-16-00    T.S.O. VI
                       98.01 -
071000     11-20-00    98.03,
                       98.99
071000A    8-14-00     T.S.O. IV
071000B    8-14-00     T.S.O. VI
081400     9-25-00     51.65(D)(1)(c),
                       51.70(A)
081400A    1-8-01      T.S.O. I
081400B    10-16-00    T.S.O. VI
091100A    1-8-01      T.S.O. I
091100B    10-16-00    T.S.O. VI
091100C    1-8-01      T.S.O. I
091100D    12-4-00     T.S.O. VI
091100E    10-26-00    T.S.O. VI
091100F    1-8-01      T.S.O. I
091100G    9-25-00     T.S.O. VI
100200     10-2-00     T.S.O. II
101600     5-7-01      T.S.O. I
101600A    5-7-01      T.S.O. VI
010801     5-7-01      T.S.O. I
010801A    4-16-01     T.S.O. VI
012201     7-9-01      T.S.O. I
012201B    5-7-01      T.S.O. I
012201C    5-7-01      T.S.O. I
012201D    5-7-01      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
012201E    5-7-01      T.S.O. I
012201F    5-7-01      T.S.O. VI
022101     6-18-01     T.S.O. I
022101A    6-18-01     T.S.O. VI
030501     5-7-01      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
030501A    7-9-01      T.S.O. I
030501B    5-21-01     T.S.O. VI
050701     11-19-01    T.S.O. I
050701B    9-17-01     T.S.O. I
050701C    5-21-01     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
050701D    9-17-01     T.S.O. I
050701E    10-1-01     T.S.O. VI
050701F    6-18-01     T.S.O. VI
052101     10-15-01    96.20
060401A    9-17-01     T.S.O. I
060401C    9-17-01     T.S.O. I
070901     8-20-01     T.S.O. I
070901A    9-4-01      T.S.O. VI
070901B    8-20-01     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
080601     10-15-01    T.S.O. I
080601A    10-15-01    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
080601B    10-15-01    T.S.O. I
080601C    10-15-01    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
080601F    8-6-01      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
082001     8-20-01     T.S.O. II
100101A    12-3-01     T.S.O. I
100101B    11-5-01     T.S.O. VI
070297     1-24-00     156.41,
                       156.42
--         6-18-01     T.S.O. V
--         7-9-01      T.S.O. V
--         8-6-01      T.S.O. V
--         8-6-01      T.S.O. V
--         8-20-01     T.S.O. V
060401E    10-1-01     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
060401F    10-1-01     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
--         11-5-01     T.S.O. V
010702A    6-17-02     T.S.O. IV
010702C    1-7-02      33.22
080601D    1-23-02     T.S.O. VI
110501     1-23-02     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
--         2-25-02     T.S.O. V
030402     3-4-02      34.12
010702     3-4-02      T.S.O. I
010702B    3-4-02      96.04
--         4-1-02      T.S.O. V
--         4-1-02      T.S.O. V
022502     4-1-02      T.S.O. I
022502A    4-15-02     T.S.O. VI
--         4-15-02     T.S.O. V
041502     4-15-02     71.30
031802     5-6-02      T.S.O. I
031802A    5-6-02      T.S.O. VI
031802B    5-6-02      T.S.O. IV
040102     6-17-02     T.S.O. I
040102A    6-17-02     T.S.O. VI
040102B    4-11-02     T.S.O. VII
050602     6-17-02     T.S.O. I
050602A    6-17-02     T.S.O. VI
052002     7-15-02     T.S.O. VI
071502     7-15-02     112.01,
                       112.02
070102     9-11-02     T.S.O. I
070102A    10-7-02     T.S.O. IV
080502     10-7-02     T.S.O. I
080502A    10-7-02     T.S.O. IV
080502B    10-7-02     T.S.O. I
080502C    10-7-02     T.S.O. VI
080502D    9-16-02     T.S.O. I
080502E    9-16-02     T.S.O. VI
090302     10-21-02    T.S.O. I
090302A    10-21-02    T.S.O. VI
090302B    10-21-02    T.S.O. I
090302C    10-21-02    T.S.O. VI
090302D    10-21-02    T.S.O. I
090302E    10-21-02    T.S.O. VI
090302F    10-21-02    T.S.O. I
090302G    10-21-02    T.S.O. VI
090302H    10-21-02    T.S.O. I
090302I    10-21-02    T.S.O. VI
090302J    10-21-02    T.S.O. I
090302K    10-21-02    T.S.O. VI
090302L    10-21-02    T.S.O. I
090302M    10-21-02    T.S.O. VI
090302N    10-21-02    T.S.O. I
090302O    10-21-02    T.S.O. VI
090302P    10-21-02    T.S.O. I
090302Q    10-21-02    T.S.O. VI
090302S    10-21-02    T.S.O. VI
090302U    10-21-02    T.S.O. VI
090302W    10-21-02    T.S.O. VI
090302R    10-21-02    T.S.O. I
090302T    10-21-02    T.S.O. I
090302V    10-21-02    T.S.O. I
100702     11-20-02    T.S.O. I
100702A    11-20-02    T.S.O. IV
100702B    11-4-02     T.S.O. IV
112002     11-20-02    T.S.O. II
120202     1-21-03     T.S.O. I
120202A    1-21-03     T.S.O. VI
120202C    12-2-02     T.S.O. II
--         1-6-03      T.S.O. V
020302A    2-18-03     T.S.O. II
030303     3-3-03      T.S.O. VI
040703A    4-7-03      T.S.O. V
021803F    4-7-03      T.S.O. I
021803D    5-5-03      T.S.O. I
021803E    5-5-03      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
031703A    5-19-03     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
Dedication 6-2-03      T.S.O. V
Dedication 6-2-03      T.S.O. V
Dedication 6-2-03      T.S.O. V
Dedication 6-2-03      T.S.O. V
020303     6-2-03      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
021803     6-2-03      T.S.O. I
021803B    6-2-03      T.S.O. I
021803G    6-2-03      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
040703     6-2-03      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
021803A    6-16-03     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
021803C    6-16-03     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
042103C    6-16-03     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
031703     7-7-03      T.S.O. I
042103D    7-7-03      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
051903E    7-7-03      T.S.O. I
051903F    7-7-03      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
042103A    7-21-03     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
042103B    7-21-03     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
051903D    7-21-03     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
061603B    7-21-03     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
080403E    8-4-03      51.73
031703B    8-4-03      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
042103     9-2-03      T.S.O. I
061603A    9-15-03     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
080403B    9-15-03     35.30,
                       156.12
092203     9-22-03     T.S.O. II
Dedication 10-6-03     T.S.O. V
061603     10-6-03     T.S.O. I
051903C    10-20-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
Dedication 10-20-03    T.S.O. V
072103A    10-20-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
072103C    10-20-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
072103E    10-20-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
072103G    10-20-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
072103I    10-20-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
072103K    10-20-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
072103M    10-20-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
072103O    10-20-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
072103Q    10-20-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
081803A    10-20-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
081803C    10-20-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
080403A    11-3-03     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
091503A    11-3-03     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
072103     11-17-03    T.S.O. I
072103B    11-17-03    T.S.O. I
072103D    11-17-03    T.S.O. I
072103F    11-17-03    T.S.O. I
072103H    11-17-03    T.S.O. I
072103J    11-17-03    T.S.O. I
072103L    11-17-03    T.S.O. I
072103N    11-17-03    T.S.O. I
072103P    11-17-03    T.S.O. I
100603A    11-17-03    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
080403     12-1-03     T.S.O. I
100603B    12-1-03     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
081803     12-1-03     T.S.O. I
081803B    12-1-03     T.S.O. I
Dedication 12-15-03    T.S.O. V
080403C    12-15-03    162.02
051903     1-5-04      T.S.O. I
051903A    1-5-04      T.S.O. I
051903B    1-5-04      T.S.O. I
091503     1-5-04      T.S.O. I
111703D    1-5-04      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
Dedication 1-20-04     T.S.O. V
100603     1-20-04     T.S.O. I
120103C    1-20-04     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
120103E    2-2-04      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
121503A    2-2-04      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
121503E    2-2-04      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
121503F    2-16-04     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
Dedication 2-16-04     T.S.O. V
012004A    3-2-04      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
012004E    3-2-04      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
012004G    3-2-04      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
102003     3-2-04      T.S.O. I
111703B    3-2-04      T.S.O. I
111703C    3-2-04      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
020204     3-2-04      35.30
030204     3-2-04      T.S.O. VIII
030303     3-3-04      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
120103B    3-15-04     T.S.O. I
120103D    3-15-04     T.S.O. I
121503     4-5-04      T.S.O. I
121503B    4-5-04      T.S.O. I
121503C    4-19-04     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
121503D    4-19-04     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
012004I    4-19-04     T.S.O. VI
012004     5-17-04     T.S.O. I
012004D    5-17-04     T.S.O. I
012004Da   5-17-04     T.S.O. I
012004Db   5-17-04     T.S.O. I
012004Dc   5-17-04     T.S.O. I
012004F    5-17-04     T.S.O. I
031504A    5-17-04     T.S.O. VI
050504     5-17-04     130.02
021604A    5-17-04     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
012004H    6-7-04      T.S.O. I
021604     6-7-04      T.S.O. I
021604B    6-7-04      T.S.O. I
021604C    6-7-04      T.S.O. VI
--         6-7-04      T.S.O. V
051704A    7-7-04      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
--         8-15-04     T.S.O. VIII
031504     8-16-04     T.S.O. I
070704A    9-7-04      T.S.O. VI
080204B    9-7-04      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
051704     9-20-04     T.S.O. I
080204A    10-4-04     T.S.O. VI
070704     11-8-04     T.S.O. I
070704B    11-8-04     T.S.O. I
071904     11-8-04     156.41,
                       156.42
070704C    11-22-04    T.S.O. VI
110804     11-22-04    T.S.O. VIII
080204     12-6-04     T.S.O. I
101804A    12-6-04     T.S.O. VI
112204C    12-6-04     156.42
122004C    1-3-05      T.S.O. V
101804     2-7-05      T.S.O. I
101804B    2-7-05      T.S.O. I
101804C    2-7-05      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
122004A    2-7-05      T.S.O. VI
120604A    2-7-05      T.S.O. VI
081604     2-21-05     T.S.O. I
081604A    2-21-05     T.S.O. I
100404     2-21-05     T.S.O. I
100404A    2-21-05     T.S.O. I
100404B    2-21-05     T.S.O. I
010305A    3-7-05      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
090704B    3-21-05     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
112204D    4-4-05      T.S.O. I
112204E    4-4-05      T.S.O. I
120604     4-4-05      T.S.O. I
112204     4-18-05     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
112204A    4-18-05     T.S.O. I
112204B    4-18-05     T.S.O. VI
010305C    4-18-05     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
041805     5-2-05      T.S.O. V
010305     5-16-05     T.S.O. I
010305B    5-16-05     T.S.O. I
010305D    5-16-05     T.S.O. VI
030705A    5-16-05     T.S.O. VI
030705C    6-20-05     T.S.O. VI
032105     6-20-05     35.30
040405A    6-20-05     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
030705D    7-6-05      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
070605     7-6-05      T.S.O. VI
022105B    8-1-05      T.S.O. I
030705     8-1-05      T.S.O. I
030705B    8-1-05      T.S.O. I
040405B    8-1-05      T.S.O. I
070605D    8-1-05      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
080105B    8-1-05      T.S.O. V
Dedication 8-29-05     T.S.O. V
040405D    9-12-05     152.01
062005B    9-19-05     T.S.O. VI
070605B    9-19-05     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
062005C    10-17-05    94.01
070605C    10-17-05    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
040405     11-7-05     T.S.O. I
062005     11-7-05     T.S.O. I
062005A    11-7-05     T.S.O. I
062005F    11-21-05    T.S.O. I
062005G    11-21-05    T.S.O. I
--         11-21-05    T.S.O. VIII
100305E    12-19-05    T.S.O. IV
121905A    12-19-05    92.01
121905C    12-19-05    152.01
112105D    1-16-06     96.04
100305D    1-3-06      T.S.O. IV
Dedication 1-3-06      T.S.O. V
Dedication 1-6-06      T.S.O. V
100305     2-6-06      T.S.O. I
100305A    2-6-06      T.S.O. I
100305B    2-6-06      T.S.O. I
100305C    2-6-06      T.S.O. I
120505     2-6-06      T.S.O. IV
022006B    2-20-06     51.73
022006C    2-20-06     33.22
010306A    3-20-06     T.S.O. VI
                       50.03 -
011806     3-20-06     50.06,
                       50.99
022105A    3-20-06     T.S.O. IV
--         4-17-06     T.S.O. VIII
032006     4-17-06     T.S.O. VI
020606     5-1-06      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
030606C    5-1-06      T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
010306     5-15-06     T.S.O. I
030606A    5-15-06     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
030606B    5-15-06     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
022006A    6-5-06      T.S.O. IV
041706A    6-5-06      T.S.O. I
041706B    6-5-06      T.S.O. I
041706C    6-5-06      T.S.O. I
--         6-5-06      T.S.O. VIII
051506A    6-19-06     96.15,
                       96.16
--         6-19-06     T.S.O. II
070506A    7-5-06      32.75 -
                       32.80
--         7-5-06      T.S.O. VIII
040306     7-17-06     T.S.O. IV
060506     8-7-06      T.S.O. I
061906     8-7-06      T.S.O. I
071706A    9-5-06      156.41,
                       156.42
080706E    9-5-06      35.01,
                       35.02
050106A    10-2-06     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
080706     10-2-06     T.S.O. I
080706A    10-2-06     T.S.O. I
080706B    10-2-06     T. S.O. IV,
                       VI
070506     11-6-06     T.S.O. VI
100206A    11-11-06    T.S.O. I
100206     11-20-06    T.S.O. I
091806     12-18-06    T.S.O. IV
100206B    12-18-06    35.30
                       35.30,
                       36.08,
                       70.42,
                       70.43,
121068     - -07       70.99,
                       111.30,
                       111.32 -
                       111.35,
                       111.99
121806A    1-16-07     T.S.O. VIII
                       35.30,
                       36.08,
                       70.99,
121806B    1-16-07     111.30,
                       111.32 -
                       111.35,
                       111.99
121806G    1-16-07     T.S.O. V
110606B    2-19-07     T.S.O. VI
120406     3-5-07      T.S.O. I
120406A    3-5-07      T.S.O. VI
031907     3-19-07     T.S.O. V
031907A    3-19-07     94.11
021907     4-16-07     T.S.O. I
021907A    4-16-07     T.S.O. I
021907B    4-16-07     T.S.O. IV
021907C    4-16-07     T.S.O. I
120406B    5-9-07      T.S.O. IV
030507     5-9-07      T.S.O. I
030507C    5-9-07      T.S.O. VI
          6-4-07      T.S.O. VIII
090506     6-4-07      T.S.O. IV
050907     6-18-07     T.S.O. I
050907A    6-18-07     T.S.O. I
061807     8-6-07      T.S.O. IV
061807A    8-6-07      T.S.O. IV
061807B    6-18-07     T.S.O. V
080607     8-6-07      35.30
082007     10-1-07     T.S.O. I
070207     11-7-07     T.S.O. IV
090407     11-7-07     T.S.O. IV
101507     11-19-07    T.S.O. I
101507A    11-19-07    T.S.O. I
090407A    1-7-08      T.S.O. I
091707B    1-22-08     T.S.O. I
091707C    1-22-08     T.S.O. I
091707D    1-22-08     T.S.O. I
012208B    1-22-08     32.03
012208C    1-22-08     95.30 -
                       95.35
120307     2-18-08     T.S.O. IV
012208A    3-3-08      T.S.O. IV
          3-17-08     T.S.O. V
          3-17-08     T.S.O. V
040708B    4-7-08      T.S.O. V
100407     4-7-08      T.S.O. I
050708A    5-7-08      T.S.O. V
                       112.10 -
060208     6-2-08      112.13,
                       112.99
                       131.01 -
060208A    6-2-08      131.05,
                       131.98,
                       131.99
          6-16-08     T.S.O. VIII
061608     6-16-08     35.30
061608A    6-16-08     36.08
061608B    6-16-08     11.01,
                       11.02
061608F    6-16-08     36.08
050708     7-7-08      T.S.O. I
061608D    8-4-08      T.S.O. I
070708     8-18-08     T.S.O. I
070708A    8-18-08     T.S.O. I
070708B    8-18-08     T.S.O. I
070708C    8-18-08     T.S.O. I
070708D    8-18-08     T.S.O. I
070708E    8-18-08     T.S.O. I
070708F    8-18-08     T.S.O. I
091508     11-5-08     T.S.O. I
091508A    10-20-08    T.S.O. I
091508B    10-20-08    T.S.O. I
080408     11-5-08     T.S.O. IV
102008A    11-17-08    T.S.O. I
102008B    11-17-08    T.S.O. I
081808A    12-1-08     152.01
090208     12-1-08     35.30
100608     12-1-08     T.S.O. IV
120108A    2-2-09      T.S.O. IV
121508     12-15-08    33.14
010509C    1-5-09      156.24
010509     1-20-09     T.S.O. V
010509A    3-2-09      T.S.O. IV
020209     4-6-09      T.S.O. I
021609     2-16-09     T.S.O. V
030209     3-2-09      T.S.O. V
051809     5-18-09     33.22
060109A    7-6-09      36.08
061509     7-20-09     T.S.O. I
061509A    7-20-09     T.S.O. I
072009     7-20-09     T.S.O. VIII
                       52.01 -
080309     9-8-09      52.07,
                       52.99
080309A    9-8-09      36.08
110209A    11-2-09     34.14
122109     12-21-09    35.30
122109A    2-1-10      T.S.O. IV
                       154.10,
                       154.15,
                       154.17 -
                       154.19,
122109C    2-1-10      154.20,
                       154.25 -
                       154.31,
                       154.98,
                       154.99
                       36.08,
020110A    2-15-10     115.01 -
                       115.05,
                       115.99
020110     4-12-10     T.S.O. IV
031510     5-5-10      T.S.O. I
031510A    3-15-10     T.S.O. II
041210A    6-7-10      T.S.O. I
041210B    6-7-10      T.S.O. I
041210C    6-7-10      T.S.O. I
041210D    6-7-10      T.S.O. I
041210E    6-7-10      T.S.O. I
050510     5-5-10      112.01
051710     6-21-10     T.S.O. I
051710A    6-21-10     T.S.O. I
051710B    5-17-10     T.S.O. II
062110     6-21-10     156.41,
                       156.42
062110A    6-21-10     156.60 -
                       156.72
041210     9-7-10      T.S.O. IV
062110B    9-7-10      T.S.O. VI
092010     9-20-10     T.S.O. V
080210     10-18-10    T.S.O. IV
090710     10-18-10    T.S.O. I
101810     10-18-10    T.S.O. II
092010B    11-3-10     T.S.O. VI
092010C    11-3-10     T.S.O. VI
092010D    11-3-10     T.S.O. VI
092010E    11-3-10     T.S.O. VI
092010F    11-3-10     T.S.O. VI
092010G    11-3-10     T.S.O. VI
092010H    11-3-10     T.S.O. VI
120610     1-3-11      152.01
120610F    2-7-11      T.S.O. IV
022111A    2-21-11     T.S.O. VIII
120610B    3-7-11      T.S.O. VI
120610C    3-7-11      T.S.O. VI
120610D    3-7-11      T.S.O. VI
120610E    3-7-11      T.S.O. VI
011811     3-7-11      T.S.O. VI
011811A    3-7-11      T.S.O. VI
011811B    3-7-11      T.S.O. VI
011811C    3-7-11      T.S.O. VI
                       98.01 -
110310     3-21-11     98.03,
                       98.99
040411     4-4-11      T.S.O. II
022111     5-4-11      T.S.O. IV
032111A    3-22-11     T.S.O. I
032111B    5-16-11     T.S.O. IV
051611A    5-16-11     35.30
041811A    6-6-11      T.S.O. IV
060611     6-20-11     35.30
062011     6-20-11     35.30,
                       96.14
030711     7-22-11     T.S.O. IV
030711A    7-22-11     T.S.O. I
062011E    7-22-11     150.06
062011A    8-15-11     159.01 -
                       159.15
081511     8-15-11     T.S.O. V
051611     9-6-11      T.S.O. IV,
                       T.S.O. VI
081511D    9-6-11      33.22
090611     9-6-11      70.99
090611A    9-6-11      71.01
062011D    9-19-11     T.S.O. I
072211     9-19-11     T.S.O. I
080111     10-3-11     T.S.O. VI
080111A    10-3-11     T.S.O. VI
080111B    10-3-11     T.S.O. VI
080111C    10-3-11     T.S.O. VI
081511C    10-17-11    T.S.O. IV
100311     2-6-12      T.S.O. IV
100311A    12-19-11    T.S.O. VI
110911     12-5-11     T.S.O. IV
                       95.10 -
120511     1-3-12      95.17,
                       95.99
                       95.20 -
120511A    1-3-12      95.25,
                       95.99
121911A    2-20-12     T.S.O. I
121911B    2-20-12     T.S.O. I
121911C    4-16-12     T.S.O. I
011712A    2-6-12      34.15
011712B    2-6-12      36.09
022012     2-20-12     159.01 -
                       159.15
031912     6-18-12     T.S.O. IV
                       111.11,
                       111.21,
                       111.25,
040212     4-2-12      111.30,
                       111.31,
                       111.33 -
                       111.35
040212A    5-21-12     T.S.O. IV
040212B    5-21-12     T.S.O. IV
041612     6-18-12     T.S.O. I
                       35.30,
                       94.21 -
                       94.23,
                       110.05,
                       150.05,
060412     6-4-12      156.11,
                       156.12,
                       156.21,
                       156.23,
                       161.05,
                       162.02
070212A    9-4-12      T.S.O. VI
070212B    9-4-12      T.S.O. VI
                       116.01 -
071612     10-15-12    116.13,
                       116.99
071612B    7-16-12     T.S.O. V
071612C    7-16-12     52.01 -
                       52.05
090412     9-4-12      Ch. 74, Sch. VI
091712A    9-17-12     35.50
091712B    9-17-12     T.S.O. II
080212     12-3-12     T.S.O. VI
110712     12-17-12    T.S.O. I
010713     1-7-13      96.14
012213     2-4-13      116.99
111912B    3-4-13      T.S.O. IV
120312     3-4-13      T.S.O. IV
020413C    4-1-13      T.S.O. VI
021813     4-1-13      T.S.O. IV
040113     4-1-13      T.S.O. V
020413A    4-15-13     T.S.O. VI
020413B    4-15-13     T.S.O. VI
041513B    4-15-13     T.S.O. II
                       99.01 -
041513C    4-15-13     99.04,
                       99.99
051313     5-13-13     71.17
031813A    5-13-13     95.23
051313A    6-3-13      35.30
020413     6-17-13     T.S.O. VI
040113A    6-17-13     T.S.O. I
061713     6-17-13     T.S.O. II
071513     7-15-13     Ch. 74; Sch. I,
                       Ch. 74; Sch. III
071513D    7-15-13     T.S.O. V
071513E    7-15-13     T.S.O. V
071513F    7-15-13     T.S.O. V
041513     8-19-13     T.S.O. IV
090313     9-3-13      Ch. 75; Sch. I
071513A    9-16-13     T.S.O. IV
091613     9-16-13     95.22,
                       95.23
081913     10-7-13     T.S.O. IV
071513B    10-21-13    T.S.O. IV
100713A    11-4-13     30.02
111813     11-18-13    35.30
111813B    11-18-13    T.S.O. V
                       98.01 -
120213A    12-2-13     98.03,
                       98.99
100713     12-16-13    T.S.O. IV
111813     12-16-13    35.30
121613     12-16-13    116.01 -
                       116.11
121613B    12-16-13    130.01
121613C    12-16-13    96.16
120213     1-21-14     T.S.O. IV
010614     2-3-14      T.S.O. IV
010614A    2-3-14      T.S.O. IV
020314     2-3-14      T.S.O. V
020314A    2-3-14      T.S.O. II
020314B    2-3-14      T.S.O. V
021714     2-17-14     Ch. 74; Sch. I,
                       II, V
030314     3-3-14      35.30
012114     3-17-14     T.S.O. IV
021714A    4-7-14      T.S.O. I
021714B    4-7-14      T.S.O. VI
031714     5-7-14      T.S.O. I
031714A    5-7-14      T.S.O. IV
060214     7-4-14      T.S.O. I
050714     7-7-14      T.S.O. VI
040714     7-21-14     T.S.O. VI
060214A    6-2-14      T.S.O. II
060214B    6-2-14      T.S.O. II
                       96.15,
050714A    5-7-14      96.20 -
                       96.26
070714A    7-7-14      100.01 -
                       100.15, 100.99
070714B    7-7-14      T.S.O. V
070714C    7-7-14      T.S.O. V
072114B    7-21-14     T.S.O. V
072114C    7-21-14     T.S.O. V
072114D    7-21-14     T.S.O. V
072114E    7-21-14     T.S.O. V
080414     8-4-14      T.S.O. V
080414A    8-4-14      T.S.O. II
080414B    8-4-14      T.S.O. II
070714     9-2-14      T.S.O. IV
072114     9-2-14      T.S.O. IV
090214A    9-15-14     33.25
090214     10-6-14     T.S.O. I
090214D    10-6-14     94.02
072114A    10-20-14    T.S.O. IV
091514     10-20-14    T.S.O. I
100614     10-20-14    Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                       III
                       10.01,
                       10.05,
                       10.12,
                       10.15 -
                       10.18,
                       11.01,
                       11.02,
                       30.01 -
                       30.10,
                       30.20 -
                       30.27,
                       30.30 -
                       30.33,
                       30.40 -
                       30.42,
                       31.01 -
                       31.04,
                       32.01 -
                       32.03,
                       32.15 -
                       32.19,
                       32.25,
                       32.30 -
                       32.37,
                       32.50 -
                       32.59,
                       32.65 -
                       32.67,
                       32.75 -
                       32.80,
                       32.95 -
                       32.97,
                       32.100 -
                       32.102,
                       32.105,
                       33.01,
                       33.10 -
                       33.15,
                       33.20 -
                       33.25,
                       33.30 -
                       33.35,
                       34.01 -
                       34.04,
                       34.10 -
                       34.15,
                       35.01,
                       35.02,
                       35.15,
                       35.30,
                       35.40,
                       35.41,
                       35.50,
                       36.01 -
                       36.09,
                       37.01,
                       37.02,
                       50.02,
                       50.03,
                       50.04,
                       50.05,
                       50.06,
                       50.99,
                       51.01 -
                       51.03,
                       51.05,
                       51.07,
                       51.08,
                       51.25,
                       51.27,
                       51.30,
                       51.49,
                       51.55,
                       51.56,
                       51.59 -
                       51.61,
                       51.65 -
                       51.67,
                       51.70,
                       51.72,
                       51.73,
                       51.80,
                       52.01 -
                       52.07,
                       52.99,
                       70.01,
                       70.03,
                       70.05,
                       70.15,
                       70.16,
                       70.19 -
                       70.21,
                       70.30,
                       70.31,
                       70.40,
                       70.43,
                       70.99,
                       71.02,
                       71.03,
                       71.15,
                       71.16,
                       71.30,
                       72.01,
                       72.12,
                       72.13,
                       72.24,
                       72.30,
                       72.32,
                       72.34,
                       90.01,
                       90.02,
                       90.09,
                       90.10,
091514A    11-17-14    92.01,
                       93.02,
                       93.04,
                       93.06 -
                       93.08,
                       94.01,
                       94.10 -
                       94.13,
                       94.15,
                       94.20 -
                       94.23,
                       94.25,
                       94.26,
                       94.99,
                       95.01 -
                       95.03,
                       95.05,
                       95.06,
                       95.10 -
                       95.17,
                       95.21 -
                       95.25,
                       95.30,
                       95.35,
                       95.99,
                       96.05 -
                       96.16,
                       96.23,
                       97.01 -
                       97.15,
                       97.99,
                       98.02,
                       98.03,
                       99.02,
                       110.03 -
                       110.06,
                       111.02,
                       111.03,
                       111.11,
                       111.20,
                       111.25,
                       111.34,
                       111.35,
                       111.99,
                       112.01,
                       112.10,
                       112.11,
                       112.99,
                       113.01 -
                       113.03,
                       113.10 -
                       113.17,
                       113.20 -
                       113.25,
                       113.30,
                       113.36,
                       113.99,
                       114.01,
                       115.01,
                       115.04,
                       115.05,
                       115.99,
                       116.12,
                       116.13,
                       118.01 -
                       118.24,
                       118.99,
                       130.01,
                       130.02,
                       131.02,
                       131.03,
                       131.98,
                       150.01,
                       150.03 -
                       150.05,
                       150.10 -
                       150.14,
                       152.01,
                       154.03,
                       154.10,
                       154.15 -
                       154.20,
                       154.25 -
                       154.31,
                       154.98,
                       154.99,
                       155.01,
                       156.02,
                       156.11,
                       156.12,
                       156.20 -
                       156.25,
                       156.28,
                       156.29,
                       156.40 -
                       156.52,
                       156.61 -
                       156.72,
                       156.99,
                       158.01,
                       159.01,
                       159.02,
                       159.04,
                       159.05,
                       159.07,
                       159.08,
                       159.10,
                       159.12,
                       159.13,
                       159.15,
                       160.01 -
                       160.07,
                       161.01,
                       162.01,
                       162.02
110514A    1-20-15     T.S.O. IV
110514D    11-5-14     T.S.O. V
120114B    12-1-14     157.01 -
                       157.17
                       Ch. 74, Sch.
                       I,
121514     12-15-14    II,
                       III,
                       V
012015     2-2-15      T.S.O. I
020215B    2-2-15      T.S.O. V
021615A    2-16-15     34.16
020215     3-16-15     T.S.O. IV
020215A    3-16-15     T.S.O. IV
                       157.07,
031615     3-16-15     157.09,
                       157.10
031615A    3-16-15     T.S.O. V
                       70.03,
                       70.15,
                       70.18 -
                       70.21,
                       70.40,
                       71.01,
                       71.03,
                       71.16,
031615B    3-16-15     71.17,
                       72.01,
                       72.12,
                       72.21 -
                       72.24,
                       72.30 -
                       72.32,
                       74.01,
                       75.01
102014A    3-16-15     T.S.O. IV
021615     4-20-15     T.S.O. VI
042015     5-18-15     T.S.O. I
042015A    5-18-15     T.S.O. I
042015B    6-15-15     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
042015C    6-15-15     T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
061515     6-15-15     T.S.O. II
06151D     6-15-15     35.50
042015E    7-22-15     T.S.O. IV
061515A    7-22-15     T.S.O. I
061515B    7-22-15     T.S.O. I
072215B    7-22-15     T.S.O. V
081715B    8-17-15     34.16
092115F    9-21-15     T.S.O. V
101915C    10-19-15    36.08
101915G    10-19-15    34.05
101915H    10-19-15    34.06
0902115A   11-16-15    T.S.O. I
092115B    11-16-15    T.S.O. VI
101915A    11-16-15    T.S.O. I
101915     12-21-15    51.70
072215A    12-21-15    T.S.O. IV,
                       T.S.O. VI
092115E    12-21-15    T.S.O. IV,
                       T.S.O. VI
101915B    12-21-15    T.S.O. IV,
                       T.S.O. VI
111615     1-19-16     T.S.O. IV,
                       T.S.O. VI
111615A    1-19-16     T.S.O. IV,
                       T.S.O. VI
081715D    2-15-16     T.S.O. IV
122115A    2-15-16     T.S.O. IV
122115B    2-15-16     T.S.O. IV
081715D    2-15-16     T.S.O. IV
021516E    2-15-16     34.06
032116F    3-21-16     T.S.O. II
021516B    4-18-16     T.S.O. IV
041816A    4-18-16     34.17
041816B    4-18-16     T.S.O. II
041816E    5-16-16     96.04
051616D    5-16-16     T.S.O. V
061516G    5-16-16     35.30
032116C    6-20-16     150.01
051616B    6-20-16     T.S.O. I
051616E    6-20-16     T.S.O. IV
071816E    7-18-16     T.S.O. II
071816E    7-18-16     T.S.O. II
081516B    8-15-16     T.S.O. V
081516D    8-15-16     T.S.O. V
081516E    8-15-16     T.S.O. V
081516F    8-15-16     T.S.O. II
081516I    8-15-16     T.S.O. II
081516J    8-15-16     T.S.O. II
091916     9-19-16     34.02
062016     9-19-16     T.S.O. IV
071816     9-19-16     T.S.O. IV
071816A    9-19-16     T.S.O. IV
081516     10-17-16    T.S.O. IV
101716E    10-17-16    T.S.O. II
101716F    10-17-16    T.S.O. II
101716G    10-17-16    T.S.O. II
081516A    11-21-16    T.S.O. IV
112116B    11-21-16    T.S.O. V
112116C    11-21-16    T.S.O. II
121916A    12-19-16    T.S.O. V
121916F    12-19-16    T.S.O. V
121916G    12-19-16    T.S.O. V
121916H    12-19-16    156.19
011717B    2-20-17     T.S.O. I
121916C    2-20-17     T.S.O. IV
121916D    2-20-17     T.S.O. IV
022017A    3-20-17     T.S.O. IV
022017B    3-20-17     T.S.O. I
022717     3-20-17     T.S.O. IV
032017A    3-20-17     95.22 -
                       95.24
032017B    3-20-17     35.30
032017C    3-20-17     T.S.O. I
032017D    3-20-17     T.S.O. IV
121916E    3-20-17     T.S.O. IV
032017C    4-17-17     T.S.O. I
041717A    5-15-17     T.S.O. I
041717D    5-15-17     T.S.O. I
051517C    5-15-17     T.S.O. V
051517D    5-15-17     T.S.O. V
071717F    7-17-17     T.S.O. II
071717G    7-17-17     T.S.O. II
071717I    7-17-17     T.S.O. II
061917     7-17-17     T.S.O. I
061917A    7-17-17     T.S.O. I
061917B    7-17-17     T.S.O. I
071717B    8-21-17     T.S.O. I
071717J    8-21-17     T.S.O. I
082117     8-21-17     36.08
                       36.08,
                       111.02 -
                       111.04,
082117A    8-21-17     111.10 -
                       111.13,
                       111.30 -
                       111.32,
                       111.99
                       112.11,
082117B    8-21-17     112.13,
                       112.99
082117K    8-21-17     T.S.O. II
082117C    10-16-17    T.S.O. IV
                       36.08,
101617H    10-16-17    70.99,
                       72.22
071717D    10-16-17    T.S.O. IV
071717E    11-20-17    T.S.O. IV,
                       VI
101617A    11-20-17    T.S.O. I
101617B    11-20-17    T.S.O. IV
101616J    11-20-17    T.S.O. IV
112017B    11-20-17    34.05
101617C    12-18-17    T.S.O. IV
121817C    1-16-18     T.S.O. I
112017E    1-16-18     T.S.O. I
011618     1-16-18     34.18
011618A    1-16-18     35.01,
                       35.02
121817A    2-19-18     T.S.O. IV
021918     2-19-18     T.S.O. II
021918C    2-19-18     T.S.O. VI
021918B    3-19-18     T.S.O. IV
031918B    4-16-18     T.S.O. I
041618     5-21-18     T.S.O. I
041618A    5-21-18     T.S.O. I
052118     5-21-18     T.S.O. II
052118B    5-21-18     T.S.O. II
052118C    5-21-18     T.S.O. II
052118G    5-21-18     T.S.O. IV
052118H    5-21-18     T.S.O. IV
052118I    5-21-18     T.S.O. IV
052118B    6-18-18     T.S.O. II
052118C    6-18-18     T.S.O. II
                       94.10 -
052118D    6-18-18     94.17,
                       94.99
061818A    6-18-18     T.S.O. V
061818B    6-18-18     32.90
                       36.08,
                       71.40,
052118E    7-16-18     71.99,
                       73.01 -
                       73.03,
                       73.99
071618     7-16-18     T.S.O. VII
071618A    7-16-18     71.18,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. III
071618B    7-16-18     53.01,
                       53.99
071618C    7-16-18     T.S.O. I
071618D    7-16-18     T.S.O. IV
071618E    7-16-18     T.S.O. I
071618F    7-16-18     151.01
082018     8-20-18     53.20 -
                       53.23
082018A    8-20-18     T.S.O. IV
082018C    8-20-18     32.60
091718B    9-17-18     T.S.O. V
091718C    9-17-18     T.S.O. V
091718D    9-17-18     T.S.O. V
091718E    9-17-18     94.02
102218A    10-22-18    T.S.O. II
102218C    10-22-18    T.S.O. II
102218D    11-19-18    T.S.O. I
102218E    11-19-18    T.S.O. I
102218F    11-19-18    T.S.O. I
102218G    10-22-18    35.30,
                       156.12
111918A    11-19-18    T.S.O. II
111918C    11-19-18    T.S.O. VI
                       35.02,
                       35.99,
                       36.08,
                       72.15,
                       72.22,
                       72.24,
                       72.99,
                       73.99,
111918D    11-19-18    93.99,
                       96.16,
                       96.99,
                       98.99,
                       99.99,
                       111.99,
                       112.99,
                       115.99,
                       131.99
121718E    12-17-18    T.S.O. IV
121718G    12-17-18    72.34
021819     2-18-19     T.S.O. V
021819A    2-18-19     151.01
021819B    2-18-19     151.01
                       117.01 -
021819C    2-18-19     117.05,
                       117.99
021819D    2-18-19     35.50
021819E    3-18-19     151.01
031819     5-20-19     95.20
031819B    3-18-19     T.S.O. IV
031819C    3-18-19     T.S.O. V
041519     5-20-19     T.S.O. I
041519A    5-20-19     T.S.O. I
041519B    4-15-19     151.01
041519C    5-20-19     T.S.O. VI
041519D    4-15-19     T.S.O. IV
041519F    4-15-19     T.S.O. II
052019     6-17-19     T.S.O. I
052019A    6-17-19     T.S.O. I
052019B    5-20-19     151.01
052019C    5-20-19     T.S.O. V
052019D    5-20-19     T.S.O. V
052019E    5-20-19     T.S.O. V
052019F    5-20-19     151.01
052019H    5-20-19     T.S.O. II
061719A    6-16-19     T.S.O. II
061719B    6-17-19     T.S.O. II
061719C    6-17-19     T.S.O. IV
061719D    6-17-19     T.S.O. IV
061719E    6-17-19     T.S.O. IV
071519     7-15-19     151.01
081919     9-16-19     T.S.O. I
071519A    7-15-19     151.01
071519B    7-15-19     T.S.O. IV
081919A    8-19-19     T.S.O. V
081919B    8-19-19     T.S.O. V
081919C    8-19-19     151.01
081919D    8-19-19     151.01
                       94.10 -
091619     9-16-19     94.18,
                       94.99
                       71.19,
091619A    9-16-19     71.99,
                       Ch. 74, Sch. III
091619F    9-16-19     T.S.O. IV
091619H    9-16-19     T.S.O. VI
091619C    10-21-19    T.S.O. VII
091619G    10-21-19    T.S.O. I
091619I    10-21-19    T.S.O. I
091619J    10-21-19    T.S.O. I
102119B    10-21-19    T.S.O. V
102119C    10-21-19    151.01
102119D    10-21-19    T.S.O. II
102119     11-26-19    T.S.O. I
102119A    11-26-19    T.S.O. I
112619     11-26-19    T.S.O. II
112619B    11-26-19    151.01
121619A    12-16-19    T.S.O. I
121619C    12-16-19    151.01
121619D    12-16-19    35.30
012120B    1-21-20     151.01
012120     2-17-20     T.S.O. I
012120A    2-17-20     T.S.O. VI
012120C    2-17-20     151.01
021720     2-17-20     T.S.O. IV
021720A    4-20-20     T.S.O. I
021720B    4-20-20     T.S.O. I
021720C    5-18-20     151.01
032320A    4-20-20     T.S.O. II
051820     6-15-20     T.S.O. II
051820A    5-18-20     98.03
061520     6-15-20     34.19
                       170.01 -
                       170.41,
                       170.99,
                       171.01 -
                       171.20,
061520A    7-20-20     172.01 -
                       172.12,
                       172.99 ,
                       173.01 -
                       173.10,
                       Ch. 180
        9-21-20     T.S.O. IV
                       91.01 -
092120C    10-19-20    91.25,
                       91.99
111620     1-19-21     151.01
111620A    - -         T.S.O. IV
122120A    1-19-21     T.S.O. I
122120B    2-15-21     T.S.O. IV
122120C    1-19-21     T.S.O. I
122120D    1-19-21     T.S.O. I
122120E    1-19-21     T.S.O. I
122120F    1-19-21     T.S.O. I
122120G    2-15-21     151.01
011921     2-15-21     T.S.O. IV
011921A    2-15-21     T.S.O. I
011921B    3-15-21     T.S.O. IV
011921C    2-15-21     T.S.O. IV
011921D    2-15-21     T.S.O. I
021521     4-19-21     T.S.O. I
021521A    4-19-21     T.S.O. I
021521B    4-19-21     T.S.O. I
021521C    4-19-21     T.S.O. I
021521D    4-19-21     T.S.O. VI
021521F    3-15-21     T.S.O. IV
031521     3-15-21     T.S.O. V
041921     4-19-21     34.21
041921A    5-17-21     T.S.O. V
041921B    6-21-21     151.01
051721     6-21-21     T.S.O. I
051721A    6-21-21     T.S.O. I
062121A    7-19-21     151.01
062121B    7-19-21     151.01
071921     8-16-21     T.S.O. VI
071921A    8-16-21     T.S.O. VI
071921B    8-16-21     151.01
081621     9-20-21     T.S.O. II
092021C    10-11-21    T.S.O. I
R101121    11-15-21    T.S.O. II
101121A    11-15-21    51.70
                       33.22,
                       35.30,
101121B    11-15-21    170.22,
                       171.17,
                       172.07,
                       Ch. 180
101121D    11-15-21    T.S.O. IV
101121G    11-15-21    T.S.O. VI
101121H    11-15-21    151.01
111521B    11-15-21    T.S.O. II
111521A    12-20-21    T.S.O. II
                       156.41,
111521E    12-20-21    156.42,
                       156.62,
                       156.63
101121C    1-18-22     30.12,
                       30.13
101121F    1-18-22     T.S.O. VI
122021     1-18-22     32.110
081621A    10-11-21    96.03,
                       96.04
011822     2-21-22     151.01
011822A    2-21-22     T.S.O. I
011822B    2-21-22     T.S.O. I
011822C    2-21-22     T.S.O. I
122021A    2-21-22     T.S.O. VI
101121E    3-21-22     T.S.O. VI
022122     3-21-22     T.S.O. II
022122A    2-21-22     32.62
022122B    3-21-22     T.S.O. V
032122A    4-18-22     T.S.O. I
032122B    4-18-22     T.S.O. VI
041822     5-16-22     T.S.O. VIII
041822A    5-16-22     T.S.O. I
041822B    5-16-22     T.S.O. I
041822C    5-16-22     T.S.O. I
041822D    5-16-22     T.S.O. I
041822E    5-16-22     151.01
051622A    5-16-22     T.S.O. II
051622E    6-20-22     T.S.O. I
051622F    6-20-22     T.S.O. I
071822     8-15-22     T.S.O. I
071822A    8-15-22     T.S.O. I
081522     9-19-22     T.S.O. I
081522A    10-10-22    T.S.O. VI
091922D    10-10-22    151.01
091922F    10-10-22    151.01
091922J    10-10-22    34.40 -
                       34.46
081522B    11-14-22    150.01
091922A    11-14-22    T.S.O. II
091922E    11-14-22    T.S.O. II
101022     11-14-22    T.S.O. II
101022A    11-14-22    T.S.O. II
                       170.05,
101022B    11-14-22    170.07,
                       170.27
101022D    11-14-22    T.S.O. IV
111422     1-17-23     T.S.O. IV
121922     12-19-22    34.22
121922A    1-17-23     T.S.O. I
121922B    1-17-23     T.S.O. I
121922C    1-17-23     T.S.O. I
121922E    1-17-23     151.01
011723C    1-17-23     T.S.O. II
011723A    2-20-23     T.S.O. I
022023B    2-20-23     T.S.O. V
022023A    3-20-23     T.S.O. I
022023D    3-20-23     T.S.O. VI
                       36.08,
032023     4-17-23     118.01 -
                       118.24,
                       118.99
041723A    4-17-23     T.S.O. V
041723F    5-15-23     T.S.O. I
041723G    5-15-23     T.S.O. I
041723H    5-15-23     T.S.O. I
051523     5-15-23     T.S.O. II
051523A    5-15-23     35.50
091922C    5-15-23     151.01
022023C    5-15-23     151.01
041723D    6-19-23     151.01
                       36.08,
051523C    6-19-23     100.01 -
                       100.09,
                       100.99
061923C    6-19-23     T.S.O. V
061923     7-12-23     51.72
061923A    8-18-23     151.01
082123B    8-18-23     T.S.O. V
041723E    8-21-23     T.S.O. I
061923E    8-21-23     T.S.O. I
061923F    8-21-23     T.S.O. I
061923B    9-18-23     T.S.O. IV
082123C    9-18-23     T.S.O. I
082123D    9-18-23     T.S.O. I
041723C    10-9-23     T.S.O. VI
051523E    10-9-23     T.S.O. I
051523F    10-9-23     T.S.O. I
091823     10-9-23     T.S.O. VII
091823B    10-9-23     T.S.O. I
091823C    10-9-23     T.S.O. VII
100923B    10-9-23     T.S.O. V
091823A    11-20-23    T.S.O. IV
100923     11-20-23    T.S.O. II
100923A    11-20-23    T.S.O. II
100923C    11-20-23    T.S.O. I
112023     11-20-23    35.30
112023A    12-18-23    T.S.O. VI
112023B    1-16-24     T.S.O. VI
121823B    1-16-24     T.S.O. I
                       36.08,
031824     3-18-24     132.01,
                       132.99
031824B    3-18-24     T.S.O. V
02935C     4-15-24     T.S.O. I
041524     4-15-24     T.S.O. II
041524A    4-15-24     T.S.O. II
041524C    4-15-24     T.S.O. V
041524E    4-15-24     T.S.O. II
052024     5-20-24     T.S.O. VII
                       50.01 -
041524B    6-17-24     50.07,
                       50.99
052024D    6-17-24     T.S.O. V
071524     7-15-24     T.S.O. II
071524A    7-15-24     32.05
081924     8-19-24     34.23
081924A    8-19-24     35.30
081924B    8-19-24     72.10
052024B    9-9-24      T.S.O. IV
061724     9-9-24      151.01
081924E    9-9-24      T.S.O. I
090924     10-7-24     T.S.O. VII
090924A    10-7-24     T.S.O. II
090924B    10-7-24     T.S.O. VII
090924C    1-13-25     T.S.O. I
090924D    10-7-24     50.08,
                       51.70
090924G    11-18-24    T.S.O. IV
100724     10-7-24     T.S.O. II
111824     1-13-25     T.S.O. VI
111824A    12-16-24    T.S.O. I
111824B    12-16-24    T.S.O. I
111824E    11-18-24    Ch. 180
111824F    11-18-24    T.S.O. VII
121624     1-13-25     98.01 -
                       98.03
121624A    12-16-24    T.S.O. VII
                       51.01 -
                       51.08,
                       51.15 -
                       51.17,
                       51.25 -
                       51.31,
                       51.40 -
                       51.51,
                       51.55,
011325     2-24-25     51.56,
                       51.59 -
                       51.61,
                       51.65 -
                       51.67,
                       51.70,
                       51.72,
                       51.73,
                       51.80,
                       51.99
011325A    1-13-25     T.S.O. VII
022425     3-17-25     35.30
                       163.01 -
022425A    4-21-25     163.06,
                       163.99
022425C    3-17-25     T.S.O. VI
022425D    3-17-25     150.01
022425E    3-17-25     35.60
022425F    4-21-25     151.01
031725     4-21-25     T.S.O. VII
                       96.15,
031725C    4-21-25     96.23,
                       96.24
031725A    3-17-25     151.01
031725D    4-21-25     T.S.O. VII
042125E    4-21-25     Ch. 180
                      
 
 
